
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 7, Issue 4, pages 145-196. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:7+issue:4+year:1911&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            A HISTORICAL SKETCH OF IRVINGTON, INDIANA.
            
               BY MRS. VIDA T. COTTMAN.
            EARLY HISTORY.
            THE earliest tradition that we have relating to the territory now occupied by 
                        Irvington
                     is one that is handed down by the late Alfred Wilson, a pioneer
                    resident of 
                        Warren
                     township. According to Mr. Wilson, his father, John Wilson, George
                    Pogue and the McCormicks came together from 
                        Connersville
                     in 1819* and located on
                        White river at the mouth of Fall creek. John Wilson,
                    who had providently brought with him a halfbushel of potatoes, made a clearing,
                    built a shack and put in a crop. That summer another arrival offered Wilson
                    $100 for his improvements, which was accepted. With this money Wilson
                    then entered eighty acres of land lying just west of what is now known as
                    Hawthorne Lane. His first home was a double log cabin with a covered passageway
                    between, which stood in what is now the Butler College campus. It faced an
                    Indian trail which connected the Whitewater valley with
                        White river. Soon after his arrival this trail became
                    the 
                        Centerville
                     road and later the right of way of the Pennsylvania railroad. There
                    was a great deal of travel to the newly founded State capital along this new
                    road, and the double log house became a frequented inn. In the early thirties
                    the National road superseded the 
                        Centerville
                     road; and the Wilsons built a more pretentious tavern on the new
                    highway. The house was a ten-room, two-story structure of brick, and the
                    materials for it were made on the place. This necessitated not only making and
                    firing brick, but also securing the lime for their mortar, which they did by
                    gathering bowlders of limestone over the fields, burning them in great piles of
                    logs 
                  
                     * This but illustrates the
                            uncertainties of tradition. The McCormick group came in 1820, and George
                            Pogue was not with them.
               
                     and throwing water over them in order to
                    break the stones, thus facilitating the process. This house so laboriously
                    constructed one year later was partially destroyed by fire, and frame additions
                    replaced the burnt portions. One big room in the rear, equipped with a huge
                    fireplace, was called by the family the emigrants' room. It seems to
                    have corresponded to the steerage on a ship. Mrs. Amanda Caylor, a granddaughter
                    of Alfred Wilson, says she remembers many nights when sleeping men, women and
                    children completely covered the floor. Mrs. Caylor relates a pathetic story of
                    one of these poor emigrants. He traveled alone, and, stopping there over night,
                    took suddenly ill and died before morning. He had not told his name and carried
                    nothing by which he could be identified. They buried him in the little graveyard
                    near by. No trace of his friends or relatives was ever found.
            John Wilson, who built the inn, died in 1840 and was succeeded by his son-in-law,
                    Aquilla Parker, who lived on in the old place and kept the tavern. There were
                    fourteen Parker children born there, twelve of whom grew to maturity. The advent
                    of the Pennsylvania railroad about war time greatly lessened the travel by
                    wagon, and the business of inn-keeping fell into decay, but the old tavern stood
                    there until the nineties, and many Irvingtonians remember it well.
            In 1822 the land from Hawthorne Lane to Arlington avenue was entered by Joseph
                    Sandusky and his wife. The Sanduskys were a large Kentucky family, who left the
                    South on account of their anti-slavery convictions. They first migrated into 
                        Ohio
                    , where they left a sufficient impress to have the city of Sandusky
                    for a namesake. A little later they came westward into Indiana, and with true
                    pioneer thrift and courage took up this and several nearby sections, where they
                    continued to live until about 1853, when they rented their farm to Mr. John
                    Ellenberger, who still lives just north of 
                        Irvington
                    . Mr. Ellenberger came from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , making the trip here with his family and chattels stored in a big
                    wagon. They traveled the old National road and made the trip in safety till they
                    turned in at the gate of their new home, when a treasured rocking chair, which
                    had surmounted the mass,  tottered, fell and
                    was broken. It was not a small loss, for in those days such comforts were almost
                    unknown in the pioneer cabins.
            The Sandusky home was located on the exact spot where Mr. James T.
                    Layman's house now stands. It was built of logs, with a basement lined
                    throughout with logs, and a loft above. There was also a log house standing
                    where our public school building now is. The land Rlr. Ellenberger farmed
                    comprised almost the whole of the original plat of 
                        Irvington
                    . Its boundaries were Hawthorne Lane on the west, Arlington avenue
                    on the east, the 
                        Brookville
                     road on the south and a line just south of Pleasant run on the
                    north. His first work was to put a stake and rider fence around this big farm.
                    Mr. Ellenberger was a most energetic and successful farmer. It was he who
                    deprived the north part of town of its glory of forest trees, but he did not
                    dream of the needs and desires of a future town. He was after fields whereon he
                    could grow corn, so the trees were felled. He made a great deal of money from
                    their sale, which was the pay he was allowed for clearing. It is perhaps fitting
                    to insert here as an offset that it is to Mr. Ellenberger's care and
                    public spirit that we are now indebted for that beautiful bit of woodland, wild
                    and nearer its native state than any other in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , our new park—the Ellenberger woods. In 1858 Mr.
                    Ellenberger bought his present farm on East Tenth street and was succeeded on
                    the Sandusky place by a man who for many years ran a dairy, having his big barns
                    on the site of Sylvester Johnson's present home.
            There are not many relics of those early days. The home of Mrs. Amanda Caylor on
                    Washington street just west of Pleasant run was built in 1849, and is typical of
                    those old-time homes, with its many-paned windows, side lights, big brick
                    fireplaces and great, roomy cupboards. The old pioneer schoolhouse was of logs
                    and stood on Emerson avenue. Until a few years ago its big cornerstones could
                    still be seen just north of the Pennsylvania railroad.
            At one time there was a little settlement of Mormons in this vicinity, and there
                    are still a few old barns which were erected by them. These bear a silent
                    testimony to the thoroughness of  the Mormon
                    carpentry, being yet in a state of usable preservation.
            Two little cemeteries, the old Parker graveyard back of Mr. William
                    Forsyth's, and the Anderson cemetery on East Tenth street, bear a
                    partial list of those who formerly lived here. The little desolated burying
                    ground just off Emerson is full of graves, but there are few stones, and the
                    Anderson cemetery has many graves antedating the oldest stone marked by the
                    writer, which bore the date 1840.
            There is a vague tradition of the death of a mother and child, tenants of the
                    Sandusky family, living in the Ritter avenue log house. They were smitten with a
                    sudden, unknown and terrifying disease, and, dying, were denied burial in the
                    cemetery by their frightened neighbors. Mr. Ellenberger, however, kindly gave
                    the family permission to inter them on his farm, and they lie in some now
                    unknown spot along Pleasant run.
            IRVINGTON.
            In 1870 Mr. Sylvester Johnson and Mr. Jacob Julian, of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, having accumulated a little money, began looking about
                    for a profitable investment. They were friends, and, after canvassing various
                    projects, decided that the laying out of a suburban town would be agreeable and
                    profitable to both. Through the late Rev. T. A. Goodwin they learned of this
                    place and after looking over the ground and considering its juxtaposition to the
                    State's capital, they decided to purchase 320 acres from the Sanduskys,
                    paying therefor $32,000. An eighty-acre farm just west of Ritter
                    avenue had been purchased a short time before by Dr. Levi Ritter, and a little
                    later a land companv bought in the old Parker homestead. These various owners
                    formed an alliance and concurred in plans to lay out a beautiful suburban town.
                    The original plat of the town covered about a square mile, running from Emerson
                    avenue on the west to Arlington on the east; from the 
                        Brookville
                     road on the south to a line a little south of Pleasant run on the
                    north.
            It was a pleasant place to look upon in those days. There were many beautiful
                    forest trees, broad green fields, and, winding  through fields and groves, sundry tinkling little
                    streams, all tributary to Pleasant run. The draining and grading of the town
                    have caused most of the little streams to disappear, but Pleasant run is still
                    wending its rippling way through our midst. It was at that time considerably
                    larger and well stocked with fish—redeyes, goggle-eyes, suckers and
                    even bass being taken from its waters in abundance. In the south part of town
                    were a number of ponds, one about a hundred feet east of the present 
                        Irvington
                     station, affording excellent fishing. It is only in recent years
                    that Pleasant run has ceased from riotous overflows, learned to keep within her
                    banks and to live thoroughly up to the reputation implied in her name. A son of
                    Aquilla Parker relates the following story of the origin of that name: A party
                    of government surveyors, along with their other duties, were charged with the
                    bestowal of appropriate names on all the unknown streams they crossed. When they
                    came to a creek east of here they spilled their sugar, and as a memorial to that
                    momentous disaster called the little stream Sugar creek. Grassy creek was so
                    denominated for obvious reasons. Buck creek signalized the shooting of a deer at
                    that point. As they forded our dear little stream some one remarked:
                    "This is a pleasant little run," and so they so named it on
                    their maps.
            The name of our town, 
                        Irvington
                    , was bestowed upon it by Jacob Julian, who, along with the rest of
                    his household, was an ardent admirer of Washington Irving. It is to Messrs.
                    Sylvester Johnson, Jacob Julian and Levi Ritter that Irvington people are
                    indebted for the unique character of their town. The name itself bespoke
                    culture, and the plans were laid to attract people of means and refinement. It
                    was to be only a beautiful residence suburb and was laid out in large lots, an
                    acre being the average size.
            Many have wondered why the majority of 
                        Irvington
                    's streets are so winding. Mr. Johnson says they copied the
                    idea from 
                  Glendale, Ohio
               . Mr. Johnson, Mr.
                    Julian and the county surveyor of 
                        Wayne county
                    , with more regard for the artistic than ior the tired feet of
                    humanity seeking shortest routes, wandered in and out, following little creek
                    beds, bending out and around  to avoid
                    cutting down some of the fine forest trees, and so staked out the curving
                    streets for the town. In thus following the courses of the little streams the
                    high ground adjacent was reserved for building sites. Oak avenue, Mr. Johnson
                    says, has a bulge in it for the express purpose of saving a magnificent oak,
                    which fact suggested its name. The first street in town to be graded and
                    graveled was Audubon road, then called Central avenue. The two circles on this
                    street make it unique. The circle south was designed for a park set out with
                    trees and a statue of Washington Irving was to grace its center. The north
                    circle was given to the town with the understanding that a young
                    ladies' seminary was to be erected there within ten years or the land
                    would revert to the owner. A fountain occupies the place designed for an Irving
                    statue and the home of J. D. Forrest fills the circle north.
            The nomenclature of our streets preserves the memory of many of those early
                    residents—Ritter, Johnson, Julian, Downey, Ohmer, Graham, Burgess,
                    Rawles, Chambers, were all named for men prominent in the beginnings of 
                        Irvington
                    . The present generation in 
                        Irvington
                     owe to these men a debt of gratitude for the effort they made in
                    establishing permanent ideals for a suburb of cultured homes. The streets were
                    broad and well graveled, trees were set out and zealously tended, not only in
                    yards but along the highways; beautiful homes were built, each surrounded by
                    spacious grounds; a large schoolhouse was erected, and such overtures made to
                    Butler College, then the Northwestern Christian University, as to induce it to
                    remove from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . All the dwellings of that period are marked by a rather
                    magnificent air and still lord it over the more insignificant houses of later
                    date.
            The home of Dr. Levi Ritter, which stood on the site of our present schoolhouse,
                    was the first house of the new town to be completed. In 1872 Mr. Sylvester
                    Johnson and Mr. Jacob Julian built their homes, costing $20,000 and
                    $25,000, respectively. Among the other houses built at that period
                    are the Bradbury house, owned now by 
                        Scot Butler
                    ; the Ohmer house, belonging at present to Willis
                    Miller, and the Downey property, now the 
                    home of T. E. Hibben. All the old brick residences were erected at that time.
                    The George W. Julian home, B. M. Blount's, the two large bricks on
                    South Ritter, the Earl house, the bunch of handsome residences southwest of the
                    college, all date back to those days, as do many of our most substantial looking
                    frame dwellings. On the theory that a man is not only known by the company he
                    keeps but by the house he builds, these houses are certainly indicative of the
                    culture and refinement of that day.
            One of the unique features of the town which has been a factor in preserving the
                    highly ideal character of the community is a clause which is inserted in the
                    deed of every piece of ground lying within its original limits. This clause
                    prohibits the sale of liquor on any premises inside the corporation on penalty
                    of its reverting to its original owner. This idea was borrowed from 
                        Colorado
                     Springs and was suggested by Sylvester Johnson, who says that the
                    accomplishment of this provision is the proudest fact of his life.
            The idea of the place was a taking one, and from the modest $100 per
                    acre paid by the original purchasers, in two years' time it had
                    increased to $1,000. In 1873 came a great financial panic, which
                    swept the whole country, and 
                        Irvington
                     did not escape. Its capitalists persisted, though woefully
                    crippled. Roadways were graded and graveled, the maples which yet line its
                    streets were set out and carefully tended, and a handsome schoolhouse was built.
                    The promise of the college in their midst served to keep up interest, as did
                    also a street-car line being built out by way of English avenue.
            In September, 1875, the college building was finished and dedicated. Almost
                    simultaneously came the completion of the streetcar line and the inauguration of
                    hourly trips between 
                        Irvington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The early capitalists kept up their high hopes and also high
                    prices until these last great features to the town had been realized, then
                    wealth and prosperity still failing to materialize, many of them left town for
                    other places, where they had hopes of retrieving their lost fortunes. It has
                    been many times asserted that every investor of that day came out a financial
                    wreck.
            
            In 1875 practically every house in 
                        Irvington
                     was occupied. Rentals were high. For a little six-room house
                    containing nothing in the way of conveniences, and not even supplied with well
                    or cistern, $20 a month was asked and obtained. Inside of two years
                    there were many vacant houses, and large and commodious dwellings could be
                    rented for $5 a month. In fact, through the succeeding years there
                    were good houses here where people continued to live not even knowing to whom
                    rent was due, for ownership was a mooted question on account of liens and
                    mortgages and consequent litigation.
            In Berry Sulgrove's History of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    , published in 1884, is the following description of 
                        Irvington
                    :
            "
                        Irvington
                     contains, besides the university, a Methodist Episcopal church
                    building, a handsome depot built by the Panhandle Railroad Company in 1872, and
                    fronting on Washington Irving Circle stands a magnificent three-story brick
                    public school building, which was erected in 1874 and is valued at
                    $20,000. The town has a telegraph and telephone station connecting it
                    with all parts of the State. The street-cars pass between it and 
                        Indianapolis
                     every hour. The town has a postoffice, I. O. O. F. lodge, one
                    general store, drug store, wagon shop, meat store and blacksmith shop, and six
                    hundred and fifty-two inhabitants. The Christian church has an organization in
                    the town (membership nearly one hundred), services are held in the college
                    chapel."
            The writer can well remember the 
                        Irvington
                     of those days. The Methodist church was then a struggling
                    organization of about eighty members, and its building, a little plain wooden
                    structure, was located near Pleasant run east of Arlington avenue. The college
                    professors served the Christian church people in the capacity of pastors. The
                    college was the social center for the majority of our citizens. As most families
                    were represented there by sons or daughters, they felt free to join in whatever
                    social activity it offered. Students were all lodged and boarded in private
                    homes, which increased the intimate relation of college and town. Seldom, if
                    ever, did the five flourishing college literary societies meet without a number
                    of town people in their  audiences, and
                    college entertainments were liberally patronized. Miss Catharine
                    Merrill's Thursday evenings remain a delightful memory to many. Our
                    Sunday-school teachers were recruited from the student ranks, and their
                    assistance was counted on in all church activities. Thus there were few homes
                    which were not permeated with an indefinable college influence which certainly
                    made for culture and refinement.
            Commencement week was a gala season, and the college chapel was always filled to
                    overflowing for each performance. The exhibitions of the literary societies
                    occupied the evenings up till Thursday, when the under-graduate address was
                    delivered. Friday was commencement day, and every graduate read an essay or
                    delivered an oration.
            For this festive week most families had guests from abroad, and everybody went to
                    everything going on. Even the children were interested and crowded the front
                    seats, keen to see and hear. The graduating exercises usually lasted all day,
                    and the noonday dinner eaten under the trees of the campus, was the great 
                        Irvington
                     picnic of the year.
            The simple pleasures of home, school, church and friendly neighborly intercourse
                    comprised the social scheme. There were no clubs, no receptions, no luncheons,
                    dinners or teas, and, isolated as we were from the city, few entered social life
                    there. To go to an evening theater, concert or lecture was only to be
                    accomplished by arduous efforts, as there was no evening car service except on
                    Saturday nights. If a sufficient number of people could be interested a car was
                    chartered. Down the middle of our graveled roads we walked carrying our
                    lanterns, for then we had neither sidewalks nor street lights, and triumphant we
                    were carried in our swaying chariot by a pair of little mules to our
                    destination. It was always a happy, good-natured crowd, whose pleasure in the
                    great event nothing could dampen, not even alighting in the mud to help the
                    driver get his car back on the track.
            The "magnificent three-story schoolhouse" mentioned by Berry
                    Sulgrove was never altogether finished. At first we had only one room, then two,
                    then three, and finally four. Outwardly  it
                    was quite imposing, but within none too comfortable. The large rooms, with their
                    very high ceilings, were only imperfectly heated by the one big stove. School
                    was not so strenuous then, and the changing of seats which were too warm or too
                    cold gave variety and spice. Out of doors the whole school ground was at our
                    disposal. We had long recesses and noons, and really played. In pleasant, warm
                    weather we often had school out of doors, and if we did not study nature we
                    absorbed it.
            In appearance the town presented a marked difference from its present aspect. The
                    houses were scattered. Yards were surrounded by fences. Everywhere were long
                    stretches of commons, over which grazed the village cows, for everybody kept a
                    cow, and everybody's cow wandered where it listed. Rlr. W. H. H. Shank
                    had large flocks of sheep, and these also dotted our meadows.
            Such conditions as these existed throughout the later seventies and eighties.
                    There was little change in the personnel of the community and few houses were
                    built. The piping of natural gas to the suburb marked the beginning of a growth
                    in the town, which the establishment of an electric street-car line in 1892
                    greatly accelerated. The quick and frequent service to and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     removed the bar which had long kept business men from locating
                    their families here. Many homes were built, sidewalks were laid and streets
                    improved. In ten years' time her development was so marked and she had
                    become so attractive that 
                        Indianapolis
                     was enamored, came courting, wooed and won her, and the two were
                    made one. So endeth my story of 
                        Irvington
                    .
         
         
         
            REMINISCENCES OF JUDGE FINCH.
            
               From The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, May 30, 1885.
            [The following address by the late Judge Fabius M. Finch was delivered before the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Club in 1885, and is of particular interest as it touches the early
                    settlement at "
                        Horseshoe Prairie
                    ," near the present site of 
                        Noblesville
                    , which antedated by a year the first settlement at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     site. Judge Finch was for many years an honored citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .]
            GENTLEMEN of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Club—Occupying, as I do, the middle link between the
                    present and past civilization in Indiana, it is proper that my subject should be
                    on this occasion: "What I Remember of the Early Settlement of Central
                    Indiana." better known as the "New Purchase."
            My earliest recollections of Indiana commenced in 1817, at the beautiful town of 
                        Connersville
                    , situated on Whitewater river, in 
                        Fayette
                    , then a border county. The settlements surroundinp that thriving
                    village at that time were sparse, and farm improvements—farming being
                    the sole occupation—were inexpensive and the production limited to a
                    few articles of prime necessity; but as the wants of the people were few and the
                    soil exceedingly productive, their enjoyments of life, as then understood, and
                    the ease of living were quite as free as those of their present wealthy
                    successors in the valley of that classic stream.
            While we resided at 
                        Connersville
                    , I remember as of yesterday, an almost universal custom of the
                    surrounding farmers and traders, of coming to town every Saturday to buy goods,
                    trade in live stock or lands or "swap" horses, hear the news
                    and settle up old scores by arbitration, and not unfrequently by fisticuff
                    fights. These fights had rules, not written and elaborate like those of the
                    modern prize ring, but well understood and bindinin their authority on all who
                    engaged in the amusement in the regular way. No Saturday ever passed, in my
                    recollection, without most of these pursuits being engaged in, fighting being as
                    frequent as either of the others—sometimes simply to settle who was
                    the best man in the neighborhood. This manner of setline  a question seemed equally enjoyed by the actors and
                    spectators. No arrests were ever made for these fights at that day. They were
                    free to all.
            I have seen many a scarred face, and neck, and shoulder, and eye, made by the
                    fist, the teeth and the thumbnails of combatants in these contests, which men
                    carried for weeks afterwards and no questions asked. "Gouging"
                    consisted in running the thumb into an opponent's eye with all
                    one's force, so that the eye was frequently started from the socket.
                    Usually the combatants stripped naked to the waist, and hence biting was made
                    easy.
            In the year 1818 the 
                        United States
                     purchased of the Indian tribes owning the same the tract of land
                    extending from the northern boundaries of 
                  Rush, Fayette, Wayne
                and 
                        Henry counties
                     west to the Wabash river, north to the Miami
                    reservation and south to the northern boundary of Owen and Jackson and Tennings
                    counties. This land was popularly known as "the New Purchase,"
                    by which name it acquired a literary fame. In 1819 it was deemed open to
                    settlement, and its farming lands attracted settleres.
            A party of seven or eight families, picked for the purpose, and mostly, or
                    entirely, from Eastern States, was formed under the lead of my father, John
                    Finch, at 
                        Connersville
                    , to make a settlement in this popular purchase. In the spring of
                    that year a party of his sons and others was sent out to locate a site on the
                    Drairie west of White river and nearly opposite the present
                    town of 
                        Noblesville
                    , and to build houses, break ground and put in spring crops. In
                    August the main body of the emigrants, together with their goods and supplies,
                    landed at their new homes, after traversing seventy miles of unbroken forest,
                    over a road of their own make, and into a forest where their nearest neighbor
                    would be seventy miles away. The location was a beautiful one on the western
                    edge of the prairie, around which the river curved in such a way as to assume
                    the shape of a horseshoe, and my father in consequence gave it the name of the
                    "Horseshoe prairie," which it still holds.
            The transition from village life in 
                        Connersville
                     to forest life on 
                    White river was so great that many among the ladies and
                    younger members of the colony thought with sad memories of what they had left
                    behind and what this lonely forest home promised them. But the household cares
                    of the ladies and providing. for the numerous wants of their families and the
                    necessity of making their crop and taking care of their live stock, and the
                    excitement of hunting, occupied most of the time of the young men. The older
                    ones had no time to be sad. For the first two months after the settlement was
                    made the emigrants were on a stretch to provide their homes so as to be
                    habitable, and to assure their crop. After that they were still more busy
                    fighting off the dreadful fevers and agues which began to make inroads into
                    their numbers. So it was literally work or die. The emigrants had not fully
                    known nor provided for all the dangers and difficulties of the movement. This
                    fearful sickness was not fully foreseen. As there was no physician in the
                    colony, nor was one expected, a supply of what was supposed to be needed
                    medicines was laid in at starting. A general knowledge of their use was known,
                    which was supposed to be sufficient. But the diseases were more stubborn and
                    difficult than was anticipated, and the supply of medicines proved inadequate in
                    quantity and quality. Besides the science of medicine, if it then deserved the
                    name of science (which is doubtful), was in a very weak infancy, and the whole
                    process of meeting the prevailing disease proceeded on a false basis.
            The hot August and autumnal sun pouring upon their log cabins and decomposing the
                    rank vegetation surrounding them, destroyed by their improvements, filled the
                    air with miasma and their blood with poison. Chills and fever raged, and
                    according. to the learning (?) of that day these were treated by the most
                    vigorous and depleting process, thus reducing the patient's strength
                    and rendering him more amenable to the disease, the theory being that by
                    weakening the man you weakened the disease. His home was rendered more
                    uncomfortable by the myriads of biting and stinging insects which assailed him
                    on everv side, by night as well as by day. At night he was serenaded by packs of
                    wolves, howling lullabies in his very dooryard at times.  He met the disease, first, with blood-letting;
                    second, calomel: third, jalap, or some other cathartic "to work it
                    off"; fourth, hot water and corn meal gruel; fifth, exclusion from the
                    fresh air. The insects he met with a stifling smoke, the wolves with his rifle
                    or his dogs, or both. As a relaxation from the vigor of jalap, salts were
                    sometimes indulged in, also senna and blisters. If the patient persisted in
                    living he was given a decoction of barks (cinchona) to give him strength, which
                    had a happy effect and doubtiess saved many lives. Late in the season of this
                    first year frosts acted as a powerful disinfectant and enemy to disease, so that
                    by New Year's day most of the emigrants came off with a cadaverous
                    countenance and an ague cake in the side. In that fall's sickness my
                    father lost two members of his family, the victims of want of sltill and want of
                    medicines. At one time during that fall's sickness there was but one
                    well person in the neiphborhood of fifty persons, and no neighbors nearer than
                    seventv miles. In the second year of the settlement there appeared in the
                    neighborhood a man who gave himself the name and title of Dr. Guthrie. He was of
                    the true Sangrado type in appearance and also in practice, except the hot water.
                    In fact, water or anv other drink except gruel, he forbade. The patient was kept
                    by him in a close room, bled freely, given calomel or blue mass, gamboge, or
                    other cathartics, and after the effects of the latter was seen on the patient,
                    he was given Peruvian bark (cinchona) in decoctions, and when able to speak, a
                    little gruel made of cornmeal to counteract the depletion he had undergone. He
                    was then kept in a hot room, under blankets, unless it was thought best to
                    salivate him, which was not an uncommon practice. If the patient did not die the
                    doctor was eulogized; if he did, the disease got the credit of it instead of the
                    treatment. From his substitution of gamboge for jalap—the regulation
                    cathartic—he got the name of "Old Gam." He also
                    introduced the sDrinp lancet in place of the time-honored "thumb
                    lance" then in use. These innovations on the practice, together with a
                    dried, snuffcolored, sub-sulphurous and semi-plug-tobacco cast of countenance
                    and his ever lugubrious expression of face, had a wonderful effect on his
                    patients and gave him among them a vivid ante  mortem popularity. Yet his most fortunate patients were those he visited
                    least.
            I would like to pause here and show what progress I have observed has been made
                    in the science of medicine in the last sixtvfive years, but time does not
                    permit, and medical journals have done the task more effectually than I could do
                    for general instruction. At that time the settlers found that frost was their
                    best friend against disease. Towards the approach of winter it was found that
                    the supplies which were brought from the "settlements" were
                    nearly exhausted, and resort must be had to their new resources. Game of every
                    variety, of great excellence, as well as fish and wild fruits of every variety
                    were in abundance and easily obtained, but how to obtain bread was the problem
                    to be solved. The crops of corn and vegetables they had put in were abundant,
                    and out of the first of these came the solution.
            The first trial on the ripening corn was made by shaving down the hardening grain
                    into thin shavings on a "jack plane," which, when well cooked,
                    made a sort of pasty mush, which was eaten with milk and sometimes made into
                    griddle cakes, and was quite a favorite for a time. When the corn got hard a
                    mortar was made by hollowing out the end of a log by burning and standing that
                    end uppermost. A pestle was made of an iron wedge fastened to a spring pole. In
                    this way the corn was beaten into "samn." This samp was
                    winnowed or sifted, and in various preparations was used in milk and made into a
                    sort of bread, or used as hominy is now used, fried or stewed, etc. But as wants
                    increased a hand-mill was made out of two flat stones, with surfaces ridred into
                    furrows, and a peg fastened in one side to hold and turn by, much after the
                    biblical style. Two, by taking hold of this peg, could propel the upper stone
                    fast enough to produce meal as fast as three or four families could use it, the
                    other five families of the neighborhood having to wait their turn till the next
                    day or resxt to the "samp mortar."
            These processes were next summer (1820) superseded by a horse-mill, which my
                    father constructed and put into operation. The stones were made out of the
                    bowlders which then strewed the uplands, laboriously hewed and split into the
                    proper shapes,  and with their faces ridged
                    into furrows, so that a fine aualitv of meal was produced to the amount of
                    thirty or forty bushels a day. Corn was the only grain grown that year. The next
                    year huckwheat was sown and ground, but with the means of boltine in use a very
                    indifferent quality of flour was produced. The niill supplied that neighborhood,
                    and for twenty miles around, until after the "land sales,"
                    when John Conner constructed a watermill at the lower end of the
                    "horseshoe prairie," which was the admiration of two or three
                    counties.
            There was little money in circulation—mostly silver—and the
                    settlers had few things which would command money. Peltries. ginseng and a few
                    others, besides labor, which was in small demand. A few articles of prime
                    necessity, such as salt, iron, smithwork and a few others. Leather and sugar
                    were homemade. Even with money wheat flour, which had to be hauled seventy miles
                    over a mud road, could rarely be bought, as little was offered for sale. Through
                    the profits of his smithshon iiw father was always able to command some money,
                    and I recollect, as of yesterday, when an enterprising huckster came into the
                    settlement with salt and some other articles, among them two barrels of flour,
                    my father bought one of these and William Colin-r. the Indian trader, the other.
                    Nothing happened that season, within my recollection, which brought such real
                    joy as did that barrel of flour, and none of the richest confections of these
                    days of high living bring such enjoyment and gladness as did the first
                    "shortcake" made from that barrel of flour. If any of you
                    youn, gentlemen do not know what "shortcake" is, God pity you
                    for what you don't know. Its manufacture is now one of the
                    "lost arts."
            In the spring and summer of 1820 the settlement had assumed the proportions of a
                    colony, and took an interest in the outside world. Among the most interesting of
                    the events to the State then transpiring was the location of the seat of
                    government of the State. An act for that purpose was passed in
                    1819–20 by the Legislature, then sitting at 
                        Corydon
                    , and commissioners to make the location were appointed by the act.
                    These met in May, 1820, at the house and trading post of William Conner, on
                        White river,  three
                    miles below our settlement, and from thence diverged in various directions,
                    examining supposed eligible sites. At one time a strong feeling was shown for
                    the "Bluffs of White River," thirteen
                    miles below this city, but the final preference was for the present location by
                    a large majority. It is worthy of remark that no suspicion of a job was ever
                    entertained against any member of the commission in this selection. Naturally
                    this event produced a tremor in our hitherto quiet community, the more so as
                    several of the commissioners and their escort visited the settlement. Among them
                    Governor Jennings is specially remembered. They were shown the beauties of our
                    location and introduced to and entertained by the sports and amusements of
                    society. Among these were fishing with the gig, a favorite and exciting method
                    of taking fish. The Governor was quite an expert with the gig (which was used in
                    the canoe then so commonly in use), and made a number of very creditable throws
                    during his short trip.
            The great popularity of fishing and hunting among the present population of
                    Indiana will justify me in digressing into a description of these pastimes,
                    which then assumed the dignity of employments, to assist in furnishing the
                    family supplies.
            Fish were abundant in White river, even beyond what I shall
                    be able to make any one believe now. I have stood on the bluff bank of the
                    river, fifty or sixty feet above the water in "the decp hole,"
                    on the prairie, and seen the surface of the water as far as the eye could reach,
                    so literally covered with fish—about six inches below the
                    surface—that they appeared to touch each other and in many instances
                    did touch; and this of all kinds of fish, from the monster muskalonge to the
                    hated gar, large and small–but mostly large—lying
                    together, a happy family, "sunning themselves," as it was
                    called.
            In shallower water these could be taken by the hook, the seine or the more
                    popular gig. The hook was considered too slow for fun. The fish were so abundant
                    that "no such word as fail" was known in any kind of fishing.
                    These fish, it seems to me, had a better flavor than the pork-house fish taken
                    in the river now.
            But the "boss" amusement was deer hunting in a canoe at night
                         by torch-light. Two persons constituted
                    a crew—one to paddle and steer, the other to use the gun. The outfit
                    was the canoe made of a log, generally poplar, beautifully hollowed and tapered
                    for speed and safety, a single one-bladed paddle, and a torch, generally made of
                    hickory bark, and the gun. These, with the gunner, were placed in the front of
                    the canoe, the steersman in the stern. Deer in warm weather came to the river at
                    night to feed on grass in the water. They could then be free from the flies and
                    biting insects which attacked them by day. When the hunter sees his game in the
                    water, the canoe is driven directly towards it. As they approach the deer the
                    gunner rocks the canoe, giving a weird appearance to the canoe and torch, which
                    so dazes and bewilders the deer that it stands, its gaze fixed upon the strange
                    apparition. The canoe can be run in a few rods of it without causing it to move.
                    Instances are related where the canoe has been run against them. If the gunner
                    has experience, and does not get the "buck fever," he has
                    evepything his own way. But if, like the deer, he becomes fascinated and dazed
                    by the situation, he is liable to see a deer of mammoth proportions almost
                    floating in the air, and so his shot is liable to be ten or twelve feet above
                    the deer. The crack of the gun, hit or miss, breaks the spell; the deer
                    understands that, and takes his leave.
            The seat of government being fixed upon, the next matter of interest was the land
                    sales in the New Purchase. These took place in 1821, at 
                        Brookville
                    . No public land could be sold until it had been offered at public
                    sale. Afterwards it could be bought by private entry at $1.25 per
                    acre. If you attend the sales you were liable to get your selection at a small
                    advance on that sum. Settlers had made their selections and scraped together
                    every dollar possible for the occasion to secure their chosen homes. The sales
                    were of great interest, and produced the talk of the neighborhood for months in
                    advance. Many who attended secured their homes, but some met disappointment. The
                    winter ensuing these sales the Legislature, sitting at 
                        Corydon
                    , passed a law organizing most of the lands in the Kew Purchase into
                    counties, by which 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Hamilton counties
                    , as now bounded, were included in one jurisdiction, and providing
                    for  the election of one set of officers for
                    the same. These officers were, principally, clerk, sheriff, two associate
                    judges, a recorder and coroner; and the selection of these officers became the
                    exciting and agitating subjects for the thoughts and discussion of the people,
                    the principal interest centering in the clerk. For this office there were two
                    candidates, the late Jas. M. Ray, representing the Whitewater party, Whitewater
                    being known as "In Yander," and the late Morris Morris,
                    representing the settlers from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , known as "Old Kaintuck." The contest was
                    exceedingly warm and spirited, the candidates traveling on horseback over the
                    entire settled portion of the two counties, and making personal appeals to the
                    voters. Through the influence of his old-time friend, TVilliam Conner, Mr. Ray
                    obtained a decided majority in 
                        Hamilton county
                    , and was thus elected. Mr. Morris, I believe, led in 
                        Marion
                    . In this election, as in all others for years afterwards, whisky
                    cut a conspicuous figure. It was provided and boldly and openly set out by the
                    friends of the candidates, or themselves, in buckets, or jugs, or sometimes a
                    barrel head was stove in, and tin cups provided for all comers, "and
                    passed around." I do not pause to comment on that practice nor compare
                    it with the present. I give the facts, for "such was life"
                    then.
            One of the advances in the mechanical arts which has struck me most forcibly is
                    the progress made in the last sixty-seven years in manufacture and repair of
                    iron and steel tools and implements. This progress, I think, is mainly due to a
                    "judicious tariff for their protection." Sixty-seven years ago
                    the common chopping ax was made at the smith's forge by hand, out of
                    iron known as "ax-bar" iron, a large, flat bar of iron four or
                    five inches wide by three-fourths to one inch thick. From this bar the upper
                    part or pole of the ax and the eye were formed by hand, and steel, scantily, for
                    it was precious, was put in the lower part, and formed the edge. Chains, and
                    horseshoes, and nails, both for horseshoes and common use, were hammered out of
                    more slender bars, known as horseshoe and nail-rod iron. So was cutlery, which
                    was even then made at the common smith shop. All these things were made by the
                    most laborious and painstaking toil,  some
                    branches requiring great care and experience. For example, tempering steel tools
                    was a fine art. When properly heated and suddenly cooled in water, and again
                    slightly heated, if it showed the blue hue of the pigeon's breast by
                    the file test, it was pronounced au fait. Making, tempering, handling and
                    grinding an ax, required one and a half or two days' ll-ork, and when
                    done was worth from $3 to $5, a dollar then being worth
                    more than three now. So of all the other branches of the industry of
                    "Tubal Cain, the first worker in iron," from making an iron
                    wedge to completing a gun, lock, stock and barrel. The necessities of that age
                    and that colony induced the manufacture of all that was then required in that
                    civilization. Clothes were made out of flax grown on the grounds of the
                    settlers, pulled, retted, broken and dressed by the men, and spun and woven by
                    hand by the women. Wool was raised from the sheep of the settlers, and shorn
                    from the sheep, washed—sometimes on the sheep's
                    back—and "picked," and was then carded, spun and
                    woven into flannels, cloths, linseys, and later into "jeans"
                    by the women.
            The flannels designed for the use of the women and children were colored blue in
                    "dye-stuffs," indigo and something else, or brown by the use
                    of various native barks, among them butternut, with minerals. The farmers and
                    their sons sometimes in winter wore buckskin pants and vests, and I give it as
                    my verdict that nothing then or since known is quite as pleasant as a new pair
                    of buckskin pants on a cold morning. The blue and brown flannels were mostly
                    used for dresses for the mothers and daughters, and when neatly made into not
                    too closely fitting dresses, with no other attempt at ornament than one or two
                    small tucks or flounces at the bottom, and worn with a small white ruffle about
                    the neck, the wearer seemed as well satisfied and was as much an attraction and
                    as lovely and as loving as their modern sisters are. The bonnest was a modest
                    straw, or calash of chintz—rarely of silk—or a sunbonnet
                    of calico or white goods, but each worn without more than a single bow of
                    ribbon. It is invidious to make comparisons; and no amount of criticism will
                    ever produce a change in the style of dress which has the stamp of fashion,  but it map be well questioned whether there
                    has been any improvement in decorating the "form divine" of
                    woman in the last fifty years.
            I am not trying to bring these recollections down to a later date than 1826, when
                    my father removed from the prairie to Stony creek, where he spent his late days,
                    and is buried. What I remember since that, and especially since my manhood,
                    "is neither here nor there" to anybody. At the period I am
                    speaking of, society was in its rudest form of intelligent civilization. The ax,
                    and the plow, and the rifle, and the fishing tackle, of whatever form, together
                    with the ruder branches of mechanic arts, were the mainstay of the family in the
                    hands of the men of that day, and the loom and the spinning-wheel, large and
                    small, and the needle and above all, the kitchen, were the allotment, in the
                    duties of life, to woman. Literature, however, was not neglected, as most of the
                    families came stored with the best thoughts of that time, in books and
                    pamphlets.
            I would like to describe the primitive houses, and house furniture of that age,
                    but I have already taken too much time and need pursue the subject no further.
                    What the privations and sufferings of these men and women procured, we enjoy the
                    fruits of now. The reflection to be deduced from these facts is, that as all
                    excellence is the product of suffering in some form—as it purifies
                    and ennobles, and strengthens—so we who are the inheritors of this
                    suffering ought to show an advance in every beneficial progress of life which
                    has been made since then, and I think we do.
         
         
         
            SOME PIONEER FRAGMENTS.
            
               BENJAMIN S. PARKER.
            [These "Fragments" are arranged from an unpublished manuscript
                    of the late Benjamin S. Parker which belonged to a series of papers by Mr.
                    Parker that ran through Vol. III of the magazine.—EDITOR.]
            OLD-TIME FARMING MACHINERY.
            THE first threshing machine that made its appearance in the backwoods of 
                        Henry county
                     was a crude, heavy affair of wood, with wooden cylinders and
                    concave set with irregular rows of iron spikes, and the gearing a rough
                    combination of wooden wheels and iron cogs. It did not separate the wheat from
                    the chaff, and these were shaken from the straw with wooden forks or rakes. It
                    required half a dozen good horses attached to the levers to furnish enough power
                    to run the apparatus, and its threshing capacity was thirty to sixty bushels a
                    day.
            The next thresher that I remember was a tral-eling one operated by cog wheels
                    attached to the hubs of the wagon upon which it was hauled about. This machine
                    was partially successful in cleaning the wheat, but scattered the straw and
                    chaff and probably fifteen to twenty per cent, of the grain about the fields or
                    along the roads. A great exhibition for the country folks it was when one of
                    these threshers, drawn by six stout horses driven by a rollicking jehu and fed
                    by an expert with bundles thrown from a wagon driven alongside, came noisily
                    down the road on a display trip, scattering straw and chaff to the disgust of
                    wayfarers and the delight of those onlookers who did not suffer."
            These clumsy devices did not, perhaps, greatly lessen the toil of the farmer, but
                    they were of moment as ushering in the new era of labor-saving machinery that
                    was destined to revolutionize agriculture. They were certainly a notable
                    departure from the primitive reap hook, sickle and flail, and from the old
                    method of separating the grain from the chaff by pouring it all together from an
                    elevation while two persons fanned it in its descent by 
                  
                     * This threshing in transit, the
                            reasons for and practicability of it, are not clear to us. If any of our
                            older readers remember the machine, we would be glad to have a fuller
                                description.–EDITOR.
               
                     a skillful waving of a sheet. When this
                    latter process was superseded by the improved fanning mill it was hailed as a
                    great innovation and in short order a familiar figure on the country roads was
                    the fanning mill peddler with his gorgeous red wheat cleaners. With these
                    improvements the statisticians began to figure on great profits for those who
                    raised wheat, and their optimistic forecasts have been justified.
            GYPSY AND NEGRO FORTUNE-TELLERSSUPERSTITIONS.
            In the palmy days of the old National road, when the long procession of travelers
                    by wagon was moving westward, an element of the panorama to impress itself on a
                    boy's memory was that of the Gypsy fortune-tellers, then as now true
                    Ishmaelites, picturesque in their vagabondage. Their camps along the road or by
                    some little stream near the towns was a familiar sight, and their begging,
                    horse-swapping and occult arts were freely practiced with both citizens and
                    travelers. The fortune-teller had a wider field to work in then than now, for
                    there was vastly more credulity, not only among the poor and ignorant but among
                    the classes that are now supposed to be superior to it. Gross superstitions
                    prevailed, and the mysteries of coffee grounds, palmistry, astrology and all the
                    rest found ready victims willing to part with their coins. Women especially were
                    patrons of the dark-skinned seeress, and she made a specialty of love, marriage
                    and domestic troubles. Yet things were not altogether easy for our
                    semi-barbarous vagrant, for the owners of chicken roosts, cornfields and potato
                    patches harbored toward him a deep-seated prejudice, while his reputation as a
                    child-stealer made him at times uncomfortably unpopular.
            In the matter of superstitions the beliefs of the negroes were particularly
                    primitive. Among them witchcraft and voodooism had many adherents. If a horse
                    tangled its mane and twisted it into loops by rubbing in the stall it was
                    thought to have been ridden by witches who had made the mane into stirrups. Eggs
                    that failed to hatch, cream that would not churn, children that suffered from
                    fits, and similar things out of the normal were  said to be bewitched, and certain people, usually
                    old women, were frequently under suspicion as the cause. A belief in spells and
                    bargains with the devil also prevailed, and some negroes were regarded as
                    possessing mysterious powers by virtue of some unholy pact. An example of this
                    was old "Tickle Breeches," a venerable Senegambian whose
                    reputation as a fortune-teller was such that not only people of his own class
                    but fine town ladies in their silks paid willing tribute to his art. Besides
                    this he was locally famous as a fiddler, and in demand at all the dances of his
                    part of the country. A story circulated by himself and more or less believed was
                    to the effect that his skill was supernaturally derived from the evil one, to
                    whom he sold himself one dark night in the midst of an assembly of black cats
                    with fiery eyes, gathered for the occasion at a lonely crossroad.
            [Apropos to early Hoosier superstitions, we here append two newspaper items of
                    curious interest, both published in The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News in 1907. —EDITOR.]
            
               
                        Greenfield
                    , Ind., April 19.—After four two-inch boards had been
                    taken off an oak log, at James Vl'ebb's sawmill, a walnut peg,
                    an inch in diameter, was found, where it had been driven into the log. The peg
                    was a foot long and reached the heart of the big log where, it is estimated, it
                    had been driven probably seventy-five years ago. At the end of the peg was a
                    coil of black hair, long and silken.
            Mr. Webb has endeaverod to learn the history of the log, but to no avail.
            Old people of the neighborhood are of the opinion that the coil of hair was
                    placed there in accordance with a prevalent custom of pioneer times. This custom
                    provided that when a man and wife could not get along or agree instead of
                    separating, as in these days, the neighbors cut a lock of hair from the head of
                    each. A hole was then bored in a thrifty tree and the locks of hair driven to
                    the heart by a walnut pin. After this it was believed the couple would live
                    happy ever after.
            Petersburg, Ind., December 21.—While Omer Lynch and Edward Armstrong,
                    east of this city, were in the woods felling trees, they cut down a large white
                    oak tree and found in the  body evidences of
                    an auger-hole. On close examination trimmings of finger nails and a lock of hair
                    were found to have been plugged up in the hole; a tight-fitting plug preserving
                    the collection from the elements. The plug evidently had been there for many
                    years, as several inches of new timber had formed over it. An old citizen says
                    that in the early days it was a common belief that if a person had asthma, and
                    he would take a lock of his hair and the trimming of his nails and put them in a
                    hole bored in a. green tree, at a height equal to his own height, the disease
                    would be cured.
         
         
            OLD FERRY RATES
            THE following ferry rates, taken from the 
                        Marion County
                     Commissioners' records for 1822, applied to the ferry
                    across White river at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This ferry, which was in use until the building of the National
                    road bridge in the early thirties, was just below the present Washington street
                    bridge:
            
               
                   
                  Cents.
               
               
                  For each wagon and four horses or oxen
                  62 1/2
               
               
                  Each wagon and two horses or oxen
                  37 1/2
               
               
                  Each small wagon and one horse or ox
                  31 1/4
               
               
                  Each extra horse or ox
                  12 1/2
               
               
                  Each head of neat cattle
                  3
               
               
                  Each head of swine
                  2
               
               
                  Each head of sheep
                  2
               
               
                  Each footman
                  6 1/4
               
            
         
         
         
            OLD-TIME SLUMS OF INDIANAPOLIS
            
               GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            MR. J. F. WRIGHT, whose long and intimate connection with the charity work of 
                        Indianapolis
                     made him familiar with the "submerged tenth" of
                    the city, has collected into several manuscript books a fund of curious lore
                    than touches that element of the city's population. Included in this
                    information is a long list of slum names that have at one time or another
                    attached to various buildings and localities, illustrative of that strange and
                    ofttimes happy slang of which the facile American is so prolific. One notable
                    fact is that such names were much more numerous here at an earlier day than they
                    are now, indicating the moral sanitation which may fairly be said to have taken
                    place in our community. It is said that 
                        Indianapolis
                     is today, for a city of its size, exceptionally free from slum
                    conditions. Whatever vice flourishes here makes at least a show of hiding its
                    head and not flourishing itself in the more respectable quarters; but it is only
                    of recent years that this boast could be made. A quarter of a century ago open
                    dives could be found in the very heart of the business district, and Mr.
                    Wright's list shows that these were but the overflow of a corruption
                    that had long afflicted the town. A notorious wandering family, well named
                    Ishmael, and an influx of kindred spirits who speedily became bound together not
                    only by common sympathies but by intermarriages, formed at an early day the
                    germs of a social disease not to be soon eliminated, and these slang names are,
                    for the most part, a reflection of that d'isease.
            As early as 1835 the "South Side" was distinguished from the
                    "North Side," Washington street being the dividing line, and
                    this south half of the town was pretty well supplied with grotesquely-dubbed
                    localities. East of East street and south of the Panhandle railroad, peopled
                    largely by Irish, was known as "Irish Hill," and was made
                    notorious by the troublesome and bellicose nature of the residents there.
                    "Vinegar Hill," bounded by South, School and Huron streets,
                    got its acidulous sobriquet from the disposition of its feminine residents to
                    advertise one another's 
                    shortcomings, this abnormal propensity being so strong, it is said, that they
                    even promoted the church militant by praying offensively, each against her
                    sisters, at the prayer meetings. "Vinegar Slip," origin of
                    name unknown, was the south end of 
                        Mississippi
                     street, near the rolling mills, and was known to the police as a
                    hiding place for criminals. The strip of ownerless ground along the river back
                    of the Greenlawn Cemetery, which was long used as a public dumping ground, and
                    where people of the poorest class "squatted," patching
                    together grotesque shanties out of cld boards, scraps of tin and what not, was
                    christened "Dumptown."
            "Dogtown," near the stockyards, was so called from the vast
                    number of dogs that were kept there as a guard against the tramps who infested
                    the place. "Poverty Flats" was between 
                        Mississippi
                     street and the river, extending from the Union tracks to Morris
                    street. "Over the Rhine" was over the river from Greenlawn
                    Cemetery. Several tenement houses on West street near 
                        Georgia
                     were known as "Holy Row;" "The
                    Bowery" was Pearl street east of 
                        Alabama
                    , and Tary's Corner" was a house on 
                        Delaware
                     street where Mozart Hall now stands, which half a century or more
                    ago was an abiding place for emigrants and other people of the poorest class.
                    "Happy Hollow" was Helen street, near Kingan's
                    porkhouse, and 
                        Virginia
                     avenue was "Lovely Lane," so named thirty years
                    ago by the colored people, who built upon it a meeting house which was labeled
                    "Lovely Lane 11. E. Church." The unconscious irony in this
                    naming will be obvious to any one who remembers the horrible depths of muck and
                    batter that pre-eminently distinguished 
                        Virginia
                     avenue before it was asphalted.
            Along Washington street were "Barbers' Row," near 
                        Blackford
                    ; Steven's "Colonnade,"
                    "Stringtown," across the White river
                    bridge, so called because of the way the houses strung out on both sides of the
                    way, and "Slabtown," west of Mt. Jackson.
                    "Greasy Row" was the square opposite the courthouse.
            A particularly unsavory part of town was a strip of territory lying along or
                    contiguous to the canal. The "Yellow Bridge," originally
                    painted that color is to the present day regarded as the  gateway to "Bucktown."
                    "Long Branch," which stood on the bank of the classic ditch,
                    was a house well known by name throughout the town, and the fame of it was
                    decidedly ill; and the "Park House," of kindred reputation in
                    its day, also stood on the canal, near Military Park.
                    "Sleigho," a liquor joint frequented by toughs, stood near the
                    canal at Eighth street, and just over the ditch, which was facetiously dubbed
                    "the St. Lawrence," was a similar dive called "
                        Canada
                    ." "Chism's Fence," at the
                    corner of North and 
                        Blackford
                     streets, a resort for the lowest class of blacks and whites, was
                    kept after the war by a son of infamy named Bob Chism, and a brother in
                    iniquity, Rollo House, was the proprietor of a shanty built on piles near the
                    pesthouse, known in criminal circles as "The Crib."
                    "The Nest," in the same locality, was a similar den.
                    "Lindenbower Station," a cottage in an alley north of old
                    Fourth street and west of 
                        Mississippi
                     was, prior to 1878, also a notorious pest hole. Not far from this
                    place was "Hoplight Station," an alley corner, so called
                    because the beaux and belles of the neighborhood used to congregate there and
                    dance of moonlight nights. To prove still farther Lhat these were not devoid of
                    poetry and sentiment, a prosaic and presumably dirty alley, not far off, became
                    "Lovers' Lane." A tenement row on Court street near 
                        Blackford
                     was known in 1877 as "The Dirty Dozen," because
                    from these there issued daily just twelve dirty looking girls who went to work
                    at 
                        Kingan
                    's.
            In other parts of the town "Wall street" was the north side of
                    Market street where the Terminal Station now stands, but then occupied by negro
                    gambling dens; "Rag alley" was 
                        Columbia
                     alley from 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Michigan
                     streets, and "Cockroach row" was a block on 
                        Massachusetts
                     avenue not far from Pennsylvania street. "The
                    Met," "Crone's," "Atlantic
                    Garden," "The Zoo" and "The
                    Adelphi" were low theaters which, at various periods, contributed their
                    mites to the demoralization of the city. "Dogberry Row"
                    designated the dens of "justice" scattered about Court and 
                        Delaware
                     streets near the courthouse, which, about 1882 were infamous for
                    robberies under cloak of the law. People too poor and ignorant to help
                    themselves were brought into these justice of the peace courts on trumped-up
                    charges and always fined, the  scheme being
                    to secure costs. Blackmail was levied on houses of ill-fame, which paid weekly
                    sums to prevent raid, and cases were often tried by night to avoid publicity and
                    newspaper exposure. The constables are said to have all been criminals, though
                    why this charge should be confined to the constables is not apparent. One other
                    notable colony that belongs to this lovely list was
                    "Brickville." "Briclwille" forty years ago
                    occupied a stretch of territory from TYoodruff Place east to the Center township
                    line, and from Clifford avenue to the Xational road. It was so named from
                    numerous brickyards located there, and the "colony" was made
                    up of the brickmakers, a hard set, many of them Kentuckians, who were a law unto
                    themselves and as defiant as they dared be of the powers that
                    were—except in the stringent winter seasons when, like the untameable
                    red man, they would bury the hatchet and come in to the government
                    agent–i. e., the township trustee, to be fed. Their little kingdom
                    was so overrun with dogs it required considerable courage in an OKcer of the law
                    to venture among them. One man kept no less than thirty large, savage
                    sheep-killing brutes, and no one knows of him ever having paid any tax. A case
                    that came into court illustrates the moral status of these people. A man, being
                    offended at his step child one cold night picked it up by the ankle and hurled
                    it over the yard fence, breaking its arm. The mother approved the act. The
                    child, afraid to return to the house, sought to keep warm by huddling close to a
                    calf lying in some straw. Finally a next door neighbor came out and got the
                    little outcast because, as he explained apologetically in court, "he
                    hated to hear it cry and thought he'd take it in."
            These Brickvillians had a social life all their own, and Mr. Wright describes the
                    typical Brickville dandy as a compound of brilliant colors with red, blue and
                    yellow stripes in his trousers, a red undershirt crossed with bright hued
                    suspenders, and a gaudy neckerchief, with cowhide boots upon his feet and a
                    broadbrimmed brown hat surmounting all.
            "Brickville," by the removal and dispersion of the brickyards,
                    has long since ceased to exist as a "center of population,"
                    and most of the people who are now familiar with that ground know nothing of the
                    vanished race that once flourished there.
         
         
         
            PROFESSOR LARRABEE AND "ROSABOWER."
            [The following account of Professor Larrabee, a once well-known educstor of
                    Indiana, and the author of a now-forgotten book called
                    "Rosabower," is of special interest because written by
                    Professor Larrabee's son. It originally appeared as a communication to
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News. EDITOR.]
            PROFESSOR LARRABEE went to 
                        Greencastle
                     in the spring of 1841. The town was then in an extremely rough
                    condition. There were no streets, but the horse paths and wagon tracks wandered
                    about in the lanes marked out for them wherever there seemed to be the least
                    depth of mud, and the pigs and cows disputed for occupancy with human intruders;
                    no sidewalks except here and there a foot-log laid across a runlet, or a fence
                    rail that some one had thrown down into the mud. The college stood on a ridge
                    between two deep ravines, on a sort of terrace of yellow clay, with no grass or
                    trees around it.
            Very few of the people had found time to attend to the higher culture, and
                    manifestations of taste were rare. As a rule, little attention was paid to the
                    decoration of yards, and it was something if they were kept simply neat. A
                    brilliant exception was the beautiful flower garden of Eliza Detrick, on the
                    hill beyond the public spring, and back of General Standiford's house,
                    which stood where Captain Thornburgh afterward built his mansion, now occupied
                    by Mr. Renick. There were other women who had a taste for flowers, as we found
                    out later; among them, Rlrs. Jennings, wife of "Squire" John
                    S. Jennings. Professor Larrabee had taken with him a selection of the choice
                    flowers and shrubs of the day, and some of the people wondered what they were
                    good for, seeming unable to understand how a man should want to raise anything
                    he could not eat or feed or make something out of. They soon took a hint,
                    however, from the newcomer's example, and in a year or two the effects
                    of his zeal in tree and flower planting and the decoration of grounds could be
                    observed all over the place. This was, I believe, the beginning of the
                    development of taste in the community, which, going on continually and accel-
                         erated from time to time by other
                    influences, has made 
                        Greencastle
                     the beautiful and homelike city it is.
            Professor Larrabee had a deep love for nature, which had grown upon him during
                    his early life on the seashore and afterward amid the dense evergreen forests
                    and among the steep, rocky hills of 
                        Maine
                    . Though he became strongly attached to Indiana, he craved the
                    familiar scenes of his native State, and obtained a large assortment of
                    evergreen seedlings, which he cherished with great care till they became large
                    enough to plant out, so that he might reproduce one of the features of a 
                        Maine
                     landscape.
            On one of his lots, just south of the "Rosabower" house, but a
                    quarter of a mile from where he was living at the time, was a small grove of
                    forest trees, beeches and sugar maples and elms. The ground sloped gently toward
                    the spring and the "branch," and there was a little patch of
                    bottomland. This he filled with tamaracks, while he planted the slope thickly
                    with balsam firs, spruce, pine and hemlock. A dear recollection of his childhood
                    had something to do with this. Becoming possessed when a small boy with an
                    intense religious interest, which proved permanent and controlled his future
                    life, he arranged in a retired grove of fir trees on his grandfather's
                    farm a convenient place to which he resorted every day for worship. The memory
                    of this "bower of prayer" was revived in 
                        Rosabower
                    .
            A large old beech tree, already beginning to decay, stood in the middle of the
                    bower. Professor Larrabee fixed a place for writing under its shade, and there
                    spent the leisure hours of his summer days and did much of his literary work.
                    Vnder the edge of the spread of the limbs of this tree, he laid little Emma
                    Rosabel, and thirteen years afterward Mrs. Larrabee; and there, four months
                    later, he was laid himself; all to rest there till they were removed to Forest
                    Hill cemetery. The old beech tree disappeared many years ago.
            There was no display of art in 
                        Rosabower
                     or in any of Professor Larrabee's grounds. The aim was
                    simply to present nature in a pleasant aspect.
            The death of his little daughter was a marked event in Professior  Larrabee's history. There had been a May
                    party, with a May queen, at the school, in which the whole town seemed to be
                    interested. The little girl of three and a half years old was very happy in
                    watching the preparations and proceedings, and, every one enjoyed her interest
                    in them. Almost immediately after the party she was attacked with a brain fever,
                    from which she died in less than three days. It was my parents' first
                    and only bereavement, and drew to them great and wide sympathy. I do not think
                    either of them ever recovered from their grief over it.
            It seems to me that the house at 
                        Rosabower
                     has been invested with more romance than it was ever entitled to
                    wear. It was built to satisfy a long-felt want, and the plans were governed by
                    individual, and not very practical, tastes. I do not think any house like it was
                    ever built in 
                        England
                    , or in colonial America.
            The opening of Mrs. Larrabee's female academy marked an era in the
                    history of education in Indiana. The need of facilities for the instruction of
                    girls was a crying one at the time. I do not know what the Presbyterians and
                    Congregationlists had done then for this cause, but they could hardly have had
                    schools of more than local importance. Outside of these, the principal resources
                    for the higher education of girls were the schools of Mrs. Tevis, at 
                        Shelbyville
                    , Ky., and the Sisters' school at 
                        St. Mary's-of-the-Woods
                    , near 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In 1836 the Rev. Smith L. Robinson, a Methodist minister, prepared
                    to start a school for girls at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and applied to my father, then in charge of a seminary in 
                        Maine
                    , for a teacher. He sent out a young woman, a student of his, of
                    suitable qualifications. She arrived at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in October, ill with measles, and died in less than a week. Less
                    than a month afterward, and before an answer to his letter announcing her death
                    could reach him, Mr. Robinson, too, died, and the projected school was given up.
            In almost every letter my father received in relation to his engagement at Asbury
                    University he was urged to bring teachers with him, and particularly teachers
                    for girls. He accordingly took with him a considerable company of teachers, who
                    found employment at various points in the West. Mrs. Larrabee's sister
                    accompanied her to 
                        Greencastle
                     and opened a school there. 
                    When she was married and went away another tried friend was brought from the
                    East, and so the supply was kept up. At last, Mrs. Larrabee, urged by the Rev.
                    E. R. Ames, Alfred Harrison, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and others, took in a few young women as boarders and started the
                    academy. The school grew rapidly, gained a high reputation and was attended by
                    pupils from all parts of the State. It may help to an understanding of what the
                    last clause means when I say that it often in winter took two days to travel
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Greencastle
                    . A few years after this 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     Female College was established and the education of Hoosier
                    Methodist girls began its course of regular development. Mrs. Larrabee
                    transferred her school in 1852 to Jeremiah Tingley. Its work was afterward
                    carried on by different teachers, all competent, till young women were admitted
                    to the university, and a special school for them was no longer needed in 
                        Greencastle
                    .
            The last time I was in 
                        Indianapolis
                     one of my old friends said to me that the history of Mrs.
                    Larrabee's school ought to be written out in full. I think so, too; but
                    though I have material of exceeding richness in regard to all the other features
                    of my father's career as an educator, of which I am just now trying to
                    make a good historical use, I have very little about this, and my own
                    recollections of the matter are rather scanty and indefinite. I should be glad
                    if any of my mother's old pupils who may agree with the friend I have
                    spoken of would furnish what they can recollect that might be of use in
                    preparing such a history. If they will direct any communications they may have
                    to make on the subject to me at 45 Willow avenue, 
                        Plainfield
                    , N. J., I shall be heartily thankful to them.
            W. H. LARRABEE.
            
               
                        Plainfield
                    , N. J., 1901.
         
         
         
            PUPILS PAST AND PRESENT—A COMPARATIVE STUDY.
            [The following interesting and informative study by hfr. V. W. B. Hedgepeth was
                    originally published in The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News five or six years since, we judge, though the exact date is
                    lost. EDITOR.]
            BY A very opportune find by Principal Riley, of 
                        Springfield
                    , Mass., the most satisfactory comparison of the school methods of
                    our grandfathers' time and of our own was recently made possible. While
                    rummaging in the garret of an old school building complete sets of examination
                    papers, together with the answers and markings, all bearing the date of October,
                    1846, were found and are to-day in a bound volume in the office of the
                    superintendent.
            By submitting these questions to pupils of the same age and comparing results the
                    school authorities in 
                        Springfield
                     were enabled to arrive at some comparison as to the progress or
                    retrogression of the school system, in 
                        Springfield
                    , at least.
            Originally the questions were given to pupils of the ninth grade, which would
                    correspond with the freshman class of our own high school. In order to make the
                    test absolutely fair, they should have been submitted to the high school rather
                    than the eighth grade.
            The writer often has been called on to dispose of the charge that, in general,
                    our grandfathers, as children, were better spellers and better arithmeticians
                    than the children of our own generation. At their best, heretofore, the
                    champions of the old and the new have not been able to find any fixed basis for
                    sound argument, but have proceeded from their own conclusions, which are often
                    colored by personal prejudice.
            December 20 the questions were taken verbatim from the list of 1846 and submitted
                    to the pupiIs of our eighth grade both eight B's and eighth
                    A's. The time consumed in the arithmetic examination was,
                    approximately, forty minutes, and in spelling about twenty minutes. The
                    questions were given without any preparation whatever on the part of the
                    children, without any previous notice to teacher or pupil, and without any
                    intimation  as to why the examination was
                    called or any information as to the source of the questions.
            The following were the questions in arithmetic: 
                  Add together the following numbers: Three thousand and nine,
                            twenty-nine, one, three hundred and one, sixty-one, sixteen, seven
                            hundred two, nine thousand, nineteen and a half, one and a half.
                  Multiply 10,008 by 8,009.
                  In a town five miles wide and six miles long, how many acres?
                  How many steps of two and a half feet each will a person take in
                            walking one mile?
                  What is one-third of 1751/2?
                  A boy bought three dozen of oranges for 371/2 cents and sold them for
                            11/2 cents apiece; what would he have gained if he had sold them for
                            21/2 cents apiece?
                  There is a certain number, one-third of which exceeds onefourth of it
                            by two; what is the number?
                  What is the simple interest of $1,200 for 12 years, 11
                            months and 29 days at 6 per cent.?
               
            
            In 1846 the average percent of correct answers was 29.4. In 
                        Springfield
                    , in 1905, the average percent of correct answers in this same
                    examination was 65.5, and in 
                        Goshen
                     the average of correct answers reached the remarkably high grade of
                    87.8 per cent.
            Following is the list of words to be spelled:
            
               
                  Accidental
                  Eccentric
                  Hysterics.
               
               
                  Accessible
                  Evanescent
                  Imbecility.
               
               
                  Baptism
                  Fierceness
                  Inconceivable.
               
               
                  Chirography
                  Feignedly
                  Inconvenience.
               
               
                  Characteristic
                  Ghastliness
                  Inefficient.
               
               
                  Deceitfully
                  Gnawed
                  Irresistible.
               
               
                  Descendant
                  Heiress.
                   
               
            
            It will be noticed that their array is rather imposing and would be formidable
                    even to the reader.
            The average percent of correct answers in both subjects was:  1846—
                        Springfield
                    , arithmetic, 29.4; spelling, 40.6. 1905—
                        Springfield
                    , arithmetic, 65.5; spelling, 51.2. 1903—
                        Goshen
                    , arithmetic, 57.5; spelling, 46.2.
            In 1846 the 
                        Springfield
                     school year consisted of forty-four weeks of actual school work,
                    each school day containing six hours. In 1905 in 
                        Springfield
                     the year consisted of forty weeks of five hours each day. In other
                    words, in 1846 the schools were in session about 1,340 hours; in 1905 the
                    schools were in session about 1,000 hours. In 1846 the schools were among the
                    best, as they had been the first to have a regularly appointed superintendent,
                    they were entirely without any foreign, non-Englishspeaking element, had been
                    highly complimented by Horace Mann and were under excellent supervision.
            Their course of study was definite, and consisted daily of reading, writing,
                    arithmetic, geography and spelling. Spelling especially was strongly emphasized,
                    as the following extracts from the course of study at that time show:
            "Accuracy in spelling and excellence in reading are deemed of the first
                    importance.
            "Ability to spell correctly is deemed highly important, as lying at the
                    foundation of all requirements, without which no person can be accurate or
                    intelligible as a scholar, or ever safe from exposure to great mortification in
                    after life."
            At the present time in 
                        Goshen
                     the school year consists of thirty-six weeks of five hours a day,
                    making the year contain 900 school hours. In both cities the children are
                    supposed to enter the grades at six years and the high school at fourteen years
                    of age. In reality the children who took the examination in 1846 had been in
                    school correspondingly three years longer than their 
                        Springfield
                     grandchildren in 1905, and more than four years longer than the 
                        Goshen
                     children who wrote this examination.
            Nevertheless the pupils of 1905 reached a much higher percent, of effectiveness
                    than their grandfathers of 1846. This is shown not only in the total of correct
                    answers, but in reduced differences. For example, in 1846—
            "More than one-fourth of the examples were passed over as too difficult
                    to attack, and the incorrect answers were so far from  the mark as to overwhelm one with the conviction
                    that the children were entirely lacking in power to mentally approximate the
                    results. Answers to the fifth example varied from 5 113 to 6,312. Relow are some
                    of the incorrect answers to the problem in simple interest—a problem
                    which was worked correctly by only thirteen pupils. Dollar signs, decimal points
                    and commas are the pupils', the first two conspicuous chiefly by their
                    absence:
            "$87.58.00; $93,58; $114.00;
                    $179.80; 907.92; $937.80; $9328.00; 93.28;
                    96.86; 115.08; 2.]5.80; 449.50000; 475.00; 638.00; 932.200; 1860.58; 93.580;
                    491040; 892800; 31966 213; 19080000; 110; 88.05; 4593600; 5587200; 770017400;
                    11038980000; 721/2.
            "Less than one-half of the class got the correct answer to the first
                    example; fifty had the second correct; only eleven secured the desired result in
                    the fourth, and seven—all boys—obtained the mastery in the
                    fifth. Of twenty-nine girls, not one had the right answer to the fourth or
                    sixth, and only three worked the interest problem to a successful conclusion.
                    The girls averaged 9 per cent. on the test."
            In 
                        Goshen
                     only five pupils missed solving the first example correctly. The
                    fifth was solved by all but two—both boys—who gave as
                    their answers 351 and 5261/2, respectively. These appear rather large numbers to
                    be one-third of 1751/2. With reference to the interest problems eight pupils
                    omitted it altogether and seven solved it incorrectly, all the rest of the class
                    having presented a correct solution. The seven incorrect solutions were:
            $25991.80, $3218.00, $896.80,
                    $887.80, $467.90, $978.00, $869.80.
            Out of a total of forty-six who made 100 in arithmetic twentysix were boys and
                    twenty were girls. The whole class of 101 was composed of fifty-four girls and
                    forty-seven boys. These comparative results in arithmetic speak for themselves.
            Equally interesting are the results in spelling. For instance, on the old papers
                    the words heiress and baptism were spelled in the following ways:
            
            
               
                  heirress
                  airest
                  babtism
               
               
                  heirruss
                  airresst
                  babtisism
               
               
                  hurriss
                  airhess
                  batism
               
               
                  heirees
                  arress
                  batisim
               
               
                  heirness
                  arris
                  baptsim
               
               
                  heiress
                  aries
                  baptisim
               
               
                  heress
                  ariest
                  baptisimm
               
               
                  hirress
                  areress
                  baptisem
               
               
                  hieress
                  arerest
                  baptisom
               
               
                  airress
                  eiress
                  baptisum
               
               
                  airess
                   
                  baptisemn
               
               
                   
                   
                  baptysm
               
               
                   
                   
                  baptisiam
               
               
                   
                   
                  baptisiasm
               
            
            Our own papers show some brilliant flashes of originality, but with some
                    differences. In the old papers we find that thirty-one pupils out of eighty-five
                    misspelled baptism in fifteen different ways, The word heiress was written by
                    forty-three pupils in twenty-two different ways. In our own papers we find that
                    thirty-one pupils out of 101 misspelled baptism in twenty different ways and
                    nine pupils misspelled heiress, each in his own way. The list follows:
            
               
                  babbtizm
                  batistion
                  hirest
               
               
                  babtizimn
                  babptisim
                  eiress
               
               
                  babtismn
                  baptysm
                  hierest
               
               
                  babtisiom
                  babtism
                  harriss
               
               
                  batisim
                  baptizem
                  earess
               
               
                  baptisim
                  babtazim
                  hirress
               
               
                  baptisism
                  babtisum
                  herris
               
               
                  bapitisan
                  babtisem
                  airasess
               
               
                  baptizam
                  babystism
                  heirous
               
               
                  bathizthm
                   
                   
               
            
            Notwithstanding the fearful and wonderful ways in which our children managed to
                    misspell baptism, we have the satisfaction of knowing that with approximately
                    four years' less schooling  they
                    raised the total percentage of correct answers from 40.6 to 46.2.
            When we consider that originally the questions were set for pupils who heard
                    English in all their homes, who attended school one-third longer each year than
                    now, who had fewer studies and hence more time for each, who had been during the
                    five preceding years under able principals, were in a school in which the
                    younger and backward pupils had been taken out nearly two years before, and who
                    were of an average age with our present high school freshmen, the results of the
                    examinations in 1905 present to the thoughtful critic a number of very plain
                    facts. The results establish the superiority of the modern schools in spelling
                    and arithmetic. If the test had been set for pupils in 
                        Springfield
                     alone this conclusion might be questioned, but it would be
                    difficult to prove the incorrectness of it since the pupils of two
                    representative schools so far apart as 
                        Springfield
                     and 
                        Goshen
                     show uniformly greater grasp and increased power.
            Nor is it difficult to explain the reasons for the superiority of the modern
                    school. In 1846 eleven different books, excluding geography, history and
                    physiology, were read below the high school. Today our children read from
                    seventy to eighty, in covering the same course. Our school libraries are filled
                    with books that are not only informational but have their substance arranged in
                    a manner to stimulate and arouse the interest. These books cover a vast range of
                    subjects, and in their reading the child acquires unconsciously a large
                    vocabulary, an increase of power over the spelling of words, larger
                    opportunities and is broadened in his sphere of usefulness.
            There can be little question that the school to-day is vastly superior in
                    efficiency to the school of our grandfathers' time, and in my own mind
                    there is equally little question as to the fact that in like manner will the
                    schools of our grandchildren be superior to our own.
            V. W. B. HEDGEPETH.
            Trigonometry and Surveying, Goshen High School, 
                        Goshen
                    , Ind.
         
         
         
            THE FIRST MANUMISSION SOCIETY.
            UNDER date of August 18, 1908, "C. M. G." of 
                        Richmond
                    , Ind., contributes the following to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper. The statement, it will be noted, involves not only the above
                    caption, but the origination of the Republican party:
            Sir—The late Charles Osborne, for years the minister of the
                    Friends' Church at Economy, in 
                        Wayne county
                    , and an old-time school teacher, left a number of carefully
                    preserved documents relating to the early history of public movements in this
                    country. Mr. Osborne was the direct descendant of Charles Osborne, one of the
                    eight men who organized the first manumission society in the 
                        United States
                    .
            That first society was formed in an obscure 
                        Tennessee
                     settlement in 1815. All of the founders of the society moved to 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, some years later and very soon after their arrival took
                    up the agitation of the slavery question. They were able, fearless men, who
                    urged the acceptance of their ideas on all occasions. They called meetings and
                    invited speakers into the neighborhood to discuss the question. They secured
                    pledges from men and women to fight the evil of slavery at the ballotbox, the
                    women with their influence and the men with their votes, and there in the
                    backwoods formed the nucleus of a party whose power overwhelmed the country and
                    drove slavery from America. These pioneer agitators were the forerunners of the
                    hosts who now make up the Republican party, and that party, according to the
                    documents left by Mr. Osborne, had its start in 
                        Perry
                     township, 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana.
            On the 9th and 10th of November, 1840, an anti-slavery meeting was held in the
                    Friends' Church in Economy. Charles Osborne was president and John M.
                    Williams secretary of the meeting. A committee of three, consisting of Arnold
                    Buffum, Daniel Worth and Nathan Johnson, the latter the grandfather of
                    exCongressman Henry U. Johnson, was appointed to propose business for the
                    convention. The committee reported the following resolutions:
            
            "That we recommend to the abolitionists throughout the 
                        United States
                     to call a national convention of the friends of independent
                    nominations as early as practicable, to nominate candidates for President and
                    Vice-president for the election in 1844.
            "That we recommend to abolitionists in this State to make independent
                    nominations for executive, legislative and judicial offices, and to withhold
                    their suffrages from all candidates who do not make a public avowal of their
                    intentions to advocate a system of protection for the liberties and rights of
                    all men.
            "That five delegates be now appointed to attend a state convention to
                    promote independent political action, to be convened at the time and place of
                    holding the next annual meeting of the State Anti-Slavery Society; and the
                    several district conventions are hereby invited to choose a like number of
                    delegates to said convention."
            The delegates were Daniel Worth, Asa Bales, Josiah Bell, Nathan Johnson and
                    Micajah White.
            The State convention called for in the resolutions was held at 
                        Newport
                    , now 
                        Fountain City
                    , in 
                        Wayne county
                    , on February 8, 1841. It was organized by appointing Andrew
                    Spillard president and John A. hloorman secretary. The question of forming an
                    Abolition party was discussed throughout two sessions and finally resulted in a
                    call for a national convention to nominate candidates for President and
                    Vice-president, "who will not basely renounce the fundamental
                    principles of righteous government to secure slave-holding popularity."
            Obedient to the call of this convention a State political party was formed in
                    opposition to slavery. Vnder different names and at different times the new
                    party met in conventions and went before the people for their suffrages.
                    Finally, in 1860, under the name of Republican, the party was elected to power
                    and Abraham Lincoln was placed in the presidential chair to enforce the
                    principles struggled for by the early settlers in 
                        Wayne county
                    .
            Touching the question of the Republican party and its beginning an editorial
                    writer on the paper that published the communication has this to say:
            
            A correspondent in a communication printed yesterday presented some interesting
                    facts relative to the early anti-slavery and abolition movement in 
                        Wayne county
                    . His statements were correct in the main, especially in praising
                    the high stand against slavery by the early settlers of 
                        Wayne county
                    . But there are historical details that do not support the claim for
                    Indiana as the birthplace of the Republican party. Indiana joined the Republican
                    procession soon after the organization of the party and was the home of many men
                    who early espoused the party's principles, but it was not the
                    party's birthplace. If that event can be definitely localized the honor
                    belongs to 
                        Michigan
                    . George JJr. Julian, a native and long-time citizen of 
                        Wayne count
                    ? and antislavery candidate for Vice-president in 1852, in an
                    account of "the first Republican national convention," says:
            "The Whig party had received its death blow in the presidential campaign
                    of 1852, but it still had a lingering and fragmentary existence. In 
                        Michigan
                     its members had united with the Free Soilers and bolting Democrats
                    in State convention as early as July 6, 1854, in forming a Republican party and
                    giving it that name, and this action was followed soon after by like movements
                    in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Vermont
                    . In Indiana a combination was formed consisting of conservative
                    Whigs, Anti-Kebraska Democrats, Know Nothings and Free Soilers. It called itself
                    the People's party and for three years in succession, beginning in
                    1854, it disowned the name Republican."
            In another place Mr. Julian says: "The honor of taking the first step in
                    the formation of the Republican party belongs to 
                        Michigan
                    ." That is undoubtedly true, at least as far as the West is
                    concerned. When Oliver P. hforton, originally a Democrat, left that party in
                    1851 and joined the party of which he was afterward to become the leader, it was
                    known in Indiana as the People's party. He ran for Governor in 1856 as
                    the candidate of the People's party. The name Republican was not used
                    in Indiana until at least three or four years after it had been used in some
                    other States.
            In referring to Charles Osborne, an early abolitionist in 
                        Wayne county
                    , our correspondent says his father was one of the  organizers of the first manumission society in the 
                        United States
                    , "formed in an obscure 
                        Tennessee
                     settlement in 1815." Abolition societies had an earlier
                    beginning even than that. There lies before us a boGk published at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1795, entitled:
            "Minutes of the proceedings of the second convention of delegates from
                    the abolition societies established in different parts of the 
                        United States
                    , assembled at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on the 7th day of January, 1795, and continued by adjournment until
                    the 14th day of the same month, inclusive."
            This convention was attended by delegates from 
                  Connecticut, New
                        York, Pennsylvania, Delaware
                and 
                        Maryland
                    . All the antislavery men of that day are deserving of credit as men
                    of high conviction, but the record shows that the abolition society of 
                        Tennessee
                     was antedated by many others. The anti-slavery meeting at Economy, 
                        Wayne county
                    , in December, 1840, is correctly described by our correspondent,
                    and was an interesting incident oi that period, but it had no particular bearing
                    on the organization of the Republican party as such fifteen years later.
         
         
            WHAT BOOK-L'ARNIN' WILL DO.
            THIS gem, the creation of one of our superintendents of Public Instruction, and
                    taken from a State Manual, is not exactly in our line, but the latter part of it
                    should be "canned" for the benefit of posterity, and we
                    venture to use it as a spacefiller:
            "The danger that confronts the adolescent if he comes to this period
                    without a body of foundation principles upon which to base his conduct and out
                    of which to carve his future career is great, indeed, even though great care and
                    patience have developed an automatic tendency to right conduct. Even a
                    well-developed, well-knit soul-texture and will-plexus might be able to
                    appreciate the rationale of its automatic tendency to right conduct when the
                    ‘storm and stress period’ of life is
                reached."
         
         
         
            THE OLD NATIONAL ROAD.
            
               As Described by George Cary Eggleston.
            THE plan was to make the National road a Broad one, after the manner of the
                    Romans, whose empire-building methods the statesmen of that time had minutely
                    studied. The roadbed was sixty-six feet wide. The gradients were so low that a
                    pair of horses might haul a very heavy load over them without difficulty. Every
                    creek was well bridged, and every brock culverted, while the surface of the road
                    was made smooth with broken and pulverized stone.
            This was in 
                  Maryland,
                            Pennsylvania
                and 
                        Virginia
                    . When the National road had crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     and entered the wilderness, a far less costly system of
                    construction was adopted.
            The road from Cumberland to Wheeling had cost six thousand dollars a mile,
                    without counting tlie cost of bridges, from the 
                        Ohio
                     forward into the West, about three thousand dollars a mile
                    —and much less as the road advanced—sufficed.
            On the eastern division the road was paved six inches deep in broken stone; every
                    little brook was bridged by a stone culvert, and every mile of the road was
                    drained by two deep ditches, one on each side of it. West of the 
                        Ohio
                     the only work done was to clear away the timber, grub up the stumps
                    and dig ditches. There was no thought of a stone coating to the roadway, and no
                    thought of anything else except to open a track over which wagons might be
                    hauled through the mud.
            Here and there in creek bottom lands the road was corduroyed. That is to say,
                    timbers were laid upon its surface to keep the wagons from sinking hopelessly
                    into the soil.
            In this way, year by year the National road was extended westward, and as it was
                    extended, the travel over it increased.
            From Wheeling, in 
                        Virginia
                    , it stretched in very nearly straight line westward, through
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, to Vandalia, then the capital of 
                        Illinois
                    .
         
         
         
            A QUESTION OF HISTORICAL ACCURACY.
            MR. DUNN'S attack in the September number of this magazine upon the
                    accuracy of a paragraph in my article on "The Development of State
                    Constitutions" in the June number, seems to call for a defense from me.
                    Much of Mr. Dunn's article is a general argument for the new proposed
                    constitution. Into this, though differing with him on some points, I do not care
                    to enter, but will confine myself to the exceptions he takes to my statements.
            The first of these refers to my characterizing the method pursued in drafting and
                    submitting the proposed constitution to the people as a "revolutionary
                    scheme." This he says is "mere unfounded epithet, and not an
                    impartial historical statement." The scheme is, or rather was,
                    revolutionary because it involved the reversal of the best and the strongest
                    tendencies in our constitutional history, both State and national; namely, the
                    regarding of constitution making as a peculiar and most important function of
                    the body politic, to be separated so far as possible from temporary party
                    politics, and to be intrusted to the ablest possible body of men assembled for
                    the exclusive purpose of creating the fundamental law. The constitutional
                    convention, more than almost any other political institution, has commended
                    itself for its representative character and for the ability enlisted in it. One
                    proof of the consistent development of this institution will suffice. In eleven
                    of the thirteen original States, the first State constitution was drawn up by
                    the legislature, but so strongly has the current run toward the use of the
                    constitutional convention, that since the Civil War out of scores of
                    constitutions adopted and a larger number proposed, Mr. Dunn is able to cite
                    only three exceptions, and those only partially such, to the practice of calling
                    conventions to frame State constitutions. Starting in the time of the national
                    constitutional convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1787, the practice has become practically universal. The attempt
                    to dispense with the constitutional convention by proposing a constitution
                    through the legislature, a method 
                    practically abandoned throughout the 
                        United States
                     and never used in Indiana, is certainly, as far as it goes,
                    "revolutionary." It is all the more justly characterized as
                    such in that this particular legislature was elected with no thought in the mind
                    of the voters that it would propose a new constitution.
            As to my statement that the bill submitting the proposed constitution to the
                    people provides means of counting the Democratic party vote as a vote for the
                    constitution. Mr. Dunn's claim that it involves "the adoption
                    of a principle of vast importmce" in no way refutes the plain fact that
                    in this particular instance the intention was to have the Democratic party
                    endorse the measure and have straight Democratic votes counted as votes for it.
                    He surely cannot think that the scheme was launched with the vague idea that
                    possibly the Republican and other organizations would officially declare for its
                    adoption. I neither asserted nor denied the wisdom of the general policy of
                    making constitutions and constitutional amendments party measures. I merely
                    summarized the situation as it was. The following assertion of Mr. Dunn, and his
                    qualification of the exception he admits must be taken as evidence of his
                    enthusiam rather than as a test of his historical accuracy: "It is safe
                    to say that by the time it (the proposed constitution) is voted on, it will have
                    received fuller consideration than any constitution ever voted on in 
                        America
                     with possibly the exception of the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ."
            The legislative power of initiative which Mr. Dunn states I deny, I denied only
                    with reference to the Indiana legislature framing a new constitution and
                    submitting it to the people. The argument for this position is too long to give
                    here in full, but it may be based upon the theory of the legislature embodied in
                    our constitution, and on its detailed description of the function of the
                    legislature in proposing amendments, without mention of any power to propose a
                    new constitution. The judicial decision which Mr. Dunn cites deals with
                    legislation and government under the constitution, not to the formulation of a
                    new constitution. That the legislature disregarded provisions in the
                    constitution of 1816 concerning revision, is not proof that it "has the
                    power to submit  to a vote of the people any
                    question of fundamental law, if it be not expressly prohibited by the
                    constitution." If it proves anything, it protes too much, namely the
                    right of the legislature to submit any question even if it be expressly
                    prohibited by the constitution. However, Mr. Dunn's statement that
                    "no vote of the people on the question of calling a convention was
                    taken in 1828 or in 1830" seems open to question, though I have not had
                    time to look it up at first hand. Mr. W. W. Thornton, in his authoritative
                    article on The Laws of Indiana, in this quarterly, Vol. I, p. 27, gives the
                    number of votes cast both in 1828 and in 1840, and speaks of the question being
                    submitted the "fourth time" in. 1849.
            Nr. Dunn also takes exception to my saying that precedents are against the method
                    used to get the proposed constitution into being and before the people. In doing
                    so he rejects the two occasions on which Indiana adopted constitutions on the
                    ground that the conditions then were dift'erent, inasmuch as our
                    present constitution was not in force then. This refusal to accept as precedents
                    the only direct examples we have for the process of constitution making in this
                    State is a good deal like saying that a change of clothing destroys a
                    man's past. As far as Indiana is concerned, precedents call for a
                    constitutional convention, because in the formation of both our constitutions
                    the constitutional convention was one of the most essential elements in the
                    whole process.
            In saying that the governor might as well dispense with the legislature in this
                    process, as the legislature eliminates the convention, I was only emphasizing
                    the above fact, and did not seriously propose, as Mr. Dunn seems to think, that
                    the governor assume this power. He is correct in stating that ‘(there
                    cannot be shown, in all the history of 
                        Great Britain
                    , or of the 
                        United States
                    , a solitary case where an executive undertook to submit a
                    constitution to the people.’ The nearest to it that I know of is the
                    present case in question in Indiana, where Mr. Dunn himself really ascribes the
                    proposed constitution not to the legislature, but to the governor: "I
                    feel at liberty to say that to Governor Marshall the purification of the
                    suffrage is the chief feature of  the
                    proposed constitution, and I believe that future generations will be grateful
                    for his effort to remove the existing evil."
            My statement that the present constitution "makes no provision for the
                    calling of another constitutional convention, nor does it make any mention of
                    the possibility of a new constitution," is in part admitted by Mr. Dunn
                    and in part denied. I based it on the text of the constitution as interpreted by
                    the discussion in the convention of 1850. Most of the speakers there carefully
                    distinguished between amendments, which they provided for, and the formation of
                    a new constitution to supersede theirs, which they disliked even to consider. To
                    devise power for the legislature to propose a new constitution from the grant of
                    "legislative authority" and the phrase "the people
                    have, at all times, an indefeasible right to alter and reform their
                    government," is in this instance stretching the theory of implied
                    powers too far.
            Mr. Dunn further quotes my statement, "If on the other hand, the new
                    constitution be, as is claimed by the opposition, not in fact a new
                    constitution, but a series of amendments to the old, the whole proceeding is
                    plainly unconstitutional," and continues, "This claim is a
                    mere verbal quibble." I understand him to object here not to my
                    statement of the case, but only to the "claim" advanced by the
                    opponents of the constitution who took the matter into court. As my purpose is
                    to defend my historical accuracy and not to argue against the proposed
                    constitution in general, this does not call for discussion in this place.
            C. B. COLEMAN.
         
         
         
            A FEARFUL AND WONDERFUL ANIMAL
            THE following, taken verbatim from an old copy of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Gazette, needs no comment:
            WILD MAN OF THE WOODS.
            Five or six days since my business called me to 
                        Danville
                    , and thence, to Harrodsburgh. Whilst descending the cliff on the
                    north side of the Kentucky river, I very unexpectedly
                    encountered a being whose strangeness of visage inspired me with the most horrid
                    sensations. TYhen I first saw him he was lying upon the ground, his tail tied to
                    the limb of a tree about twenty yards distant. I would judge it (the tail) to be
                    thirty yards in length and about the size of a bed-cord. The tramping of my
                    horse's feet started him, and he bounded to the tree, climbing up by
                    his tail which, as before stated, was tied to a limb. Recovering somewhat from
                    my confusion, I advanced nearer the tree, where I minutely surveyed his whole
                    appearance. His head was of the usual dimensions, and his hair was long and
                    flowing, reaching nearly to his waist. His eye (he had but one, in the center of
                    his forehead) was almost white, and near the size of a silver dollar. His body
                    n-as covered with hair and feathers and his feet resembled those of the bear. He
                    skipped with the greatest facility from limb to limb, and muttered some
                    unintelligible words in a harsh tone. Whilst he was intently gazing at me I rode
                    round the tree about four times, his head turning each time with me. When I
                    stopped his head was still for a moment, when it wheeled with the-elocity of a
                    top until it resumed its former position. Seeing him about to descend by means
                    of his tail, I put spurs to my horse and reached the ferry greatly terrified and
                    nearly out of breath.
            The above statement is sent you at the request of my neighbors, who will certify
                    to my good character, having resided among them for nineteen years.
            PATRICK C. FLOURNAY.
            
               
                        Jessamine County
                    , Ky., January 3, 1831.
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            With the present number the undersigned again assumes, at least for a time, the
                    editorial charge of this magazine. Professor C. B. Coleman, who for the last
                    four years has faithfully performed this gratuitous service, is now away on a
                    leave of absence from Butler College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he holds the chair of history, and is pursuing his studies
                    in 
                        American
                     history at 
                        Columbia
                     UniT-ersity. In taking over Professor Coleman's task a
                    certain unpreparedness on the part of the present writer has not only caused
                    delay, but has made impossible as much variety as the magazine should present.
                    It has been necessary to depend over-much, perhaps, on reprints, but if now or in
                    future numbers reprints are freely used, the endeavor will be made to seek out
                    matter that is valuable and so inaccessible as to be well worth republishing.
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            A GEORGE ROGERS CLARK DOCUMENT.
            Mr. John Owens, of Charlestown, Ind., sends us a surveying document of 1786, the
                    interest of which is enhanced by the signature of George Rogers Clark as party
                    to the transfer of 500 acres in 
                        Clark county
                     to John Holker. The price received for this land is not shown. A
                    feature of the document is a rude diagram or approximate square, the four
                    corners of which are designated as K T, K U, L U and L T. The survey reads:
            "Surveyed for George Rogers Clark, 500 acres of land in the 
                        Illinois
                     Grant No. 229, being part of his claim allowed by the Board of
                    Commrs. Beginning at K T, a beech, the west corner  of ano[ther] survey of said Clark's No.
                    212, running thence with a line of said other survey No. 50 E. 266 213 poles,
                    crossing two branches, waters of 14 Mile creek, to K U, a beech; thence with a
                    line Gf Henry Floyd's survey No. 230 N. 40 W. 300 poles, crossing a
                    branch, to L C, a poplar; thence S. 50 W. 266 213 poles to L T, an elm; thence
                    with a line of Richard McCarty's survey No. 228 S. 40 E. 300 poles,
                    crossing a branch, to the beginning.
            "EDM'ND ROGERS, Asst. S."
            "W. CLARKE, P. S."
            "Recorded & Exd. 1st March, 1786."
            On the reverse side of the sheet is written:
            "I do hereby assign all my Rights and Interest to and in the within
                    mentioned Lands to John Holker, his heirs B assigns, and desire that a Deed may
                    be issued for them in his name."
            "G. R. CLARK."
            "Test: BUCKNER T. THURSTON."
            AN EARLY GREENCASTLE NEWSPAPER.
            A copy of The Western Ploughboy that has come into our possession is of interest
                    owing to its rarity. The Ploughboy, edited by G. Mr. Osborn, was published in 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, and this copy bears the date of June 23, 1836, it being
                    Vol. II, No. 36. It has the customary four-page form and is printed on a 22 x 32
                    sheet. As is usual with the early papers, there is very little in the way of
                    local news, the chief item being a smallpox scare of sufficient moment to cause
                    a public meeting and the creation of a board of health. This board had for its
                    members Doctors A. C. Stevenson, S. J. Scott, William E. Talbott and T. W.
                    Cowgill, together with John Thornburg, Silas Jones, John Standiford, and John
                    IV. Osborn. It was requested of it to "enjoin upon our fellow-citizens
                    generally the necessity of vaccination." Names of other local citizens
                    mentioned in connection with Fourth of July arrangements are: William H.
                    Shields, F. B. Amsden, William B. Gwathmey, William M. C. Blake, J. W. Lyon,
                    John Cowgill, Thomas Robinson, James M. Grooms, Amasa Johnson, Westley  White, Isaac Ash and L. B. Marshall. In the
                    advertising columns we find Allison & Robinson, David Eagon, James Gore
                    and Silas Jones & Co., merchants; Robert RI. Wingate, cabinetmaker and
                    house joiner; William H. Cooper, saddler; Taylor & Dicks, tailors;
                    Milton F. Barlow, hatter; P. S. TVilson and John N. Hart, proprietors of the
                    Bell Tavern; Dr. Scott, and Edwin Heath, Jacob Durham, J. H. Lucas, James
                    Johnson, Reuben Wright, justices of the peace for 
                        Putnam county
                    . Most of these latter officials advertise stray horses taken up,
                    indicating the troubles of the pioneers in this regard in the days of large
                    range and few fences.
            The ubiquitous candidate is, of course, in evidence, and in a long communication
                    James Nasler, would-be legislator, sets forth his views on the subject of
                    internal improvement. In the internal improvement of the State hlr. Nasler sees
                    glorious possibilities, and these as he sets them forth in detail, sound rather
                    amusing in the light of subsequent experience. There is also an allusion to the
                    removal of the county seat from 
                        Greencastle
                    , showing that there had been some agitation of the question.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
