
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 64, Issue 4, pages 267-340. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:64+issue:4+year:1968&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Louis Ludlow and the War Referendum Crusade, 1935–1941
            
                    Walter R. Griffin
                    ∗
                
            The demand, for a national referendum prior to a declaration of war was a twentieth century American
                    phenomenon which reached its apex in the years immediately prior to World War II. The wide advocacy
                    of such a plan at that time, both by a large segment of the American public and a substantial number
                    of congressmen, has usually been interpreted by historians as a manifestation of the resurgence of
                    isolationism and as an indication of the weakening of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's
                    control of Congress. Although these explanations are valid in part, both tend to ignore the fact
                    that the war referendum movement attained national prominence primarily because of the personal and
                    persistent efforts of one United States congressman, Democratic Representative Louis Ludlow of
                    Indiana. Historians have examined neither Ludlow's background, philosophy, and motives, nor
                    his tactics when he sponsored a constitutional amendment providing for the war referendum. The
                    purpose of this study is not to criticize or support the war referendum idea; rather, it is to
                    investigate closely Ludlow's efforts to gain popular and congressional approval for his
                    measure during the years from 1935 to 1941.
            Louis Ludlow was born near 
                        Connersville
                    , in southeastern Indiana, on June 24, 1873. While still in his teens he left this rural
                    environment and journeyed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he was employed as a reporter on several local newspapers during the
                    1890's. In 1901, Ludlow was assigned by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel to the nation's capital, an appointment which marked the
                    beginning of a twenty-seven year career as a 
                        Washington
                     correspondent. Ludlow's journalistic achievements were formally recognized
                    with his elevation to the presidency of the National Press Club in 1927.1 Two
                    years later he became the first newspaper correspondent to move directly from the press gallery to a
                    seat in Congress. Campaigning as a Democrat, he was elected to the 
                  
                     ∗ Walter R. Griffin is assistant professor of history at
                            Upper 
                                Iowa
                             College, 
                        Fayette, Iowa
                     .
                  
                     1 A 
                                New York
                            
                            Times editorial writer, on November 13, 1928, p. 30, remarked that
                            "Mr. Ludlow was 
                                Washington
                             correspondent for so many newspapers that the count was never quite
                            known." In addition to representing the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Ludlow served as a correspondent, at one time or another during
                            his press gallery career, for the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, 
                                Columbus
                             (
                                Ohio
                            ) Dispatch, 
                                    Ohio
                                 State Journal (
                                Columbus
                            ), 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial-Tribune, 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Herald-Post, 
                                Denver
                            
                            Post, Spokane Chronicle, and Savannah Press. For his affiliations with still other newspapers, consult the press gallery
                            lists in the Congressional Directory (1901–1928). During the
                            1920's, Ludlow wrote three books: From Cornfield to Press Gallery:
                                Adventures and Reminiscences of a Veteran 
                                    Washington
                                 Correspondent (
                                Washington
                            , 1924); In that Heart of Hoosier land: A Story of the Pioneers,
                                Based on Many Actual Experiences (
                                Washington
                            , 1925); and Senator Solomon Spiffledink (
                                Washington
                            , 1927).
               
                    
                    
                  LOUIS LUDLOW Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     United States House of Representatives by Indiana voters of the
                    Seventh District, which included 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    .2
            
            Throughout his twenty years of congressional service, Louis Ludlow's political philosophy
                    remained a unique blend of Christianity, Jeffersonian, and isolationism. He firmly believed that
                    "when everything else has failed it will be found that a sincere application of the
                    principles of Christianity is the best solvent of the world's troubles."3 In the midst of the depression of the 1930's, Ludlow suggested:
                        
                        It would be well for America if each of us would create in his own being a spiritual
                            department—a department of good works, if you please—to be devoted not
                            to business recovery, as is the aim of all the new 
                                Washington
                             bureaus, but to a recovery of the spiritual values. I am one of those who
                            believe that the low estate into which we as a nation have fallen, with suffering and misery
                            unprecedented and unspeakable, is largely due to a growing indifference to the things of the
                            spirit. We have wandered far from God, and it is high time we should retrace our footsteps
                            to the throne of grace.
                        America's greatest need today is the strengthening of its moral reserves. If
                            everyone of us would shape his course of action by the precepts of Christianity, how simple
                            government would become! No longer would it be necessary to enforce justice between man and
                            man by the strong arm of government, and we could do away with most of our boards and
                            bureaus. The decrees of justice would be en graven on men's hearts, and no
                            enforcement officer would be needed save the silent monitor called conscience.4
                  
                     Ludlow spoke often and reverently of his attachment to the principles espoused by Thomas 
                        Jefferson
                    . The Indiana congressman insisted that "what America needs most of all in this
                    twentieth century is a recrudescence of Jeffersonian ism."5 Like 
                        Jefferson
                    , Ludlow was a firm believer in the equality of all men and in the ability of the people
                    to make the ultimate decisions, a staunch opponent of strong executive power, and a consistent
                    advocate of reduction in governmental expenditures. In foreign affairs, Ludlow was an isolationist,
                    believing that the United States should maintain friendly relations with all nations, but should not
                    become involved with overseas problems which were not its concern, particularly those which might
                    lead the nation into war. In a speech of March 2, 1939, he concisely expressed his isolationism:
                        
                        We have declared in the 
                                Monroe
                             Doctrine that foreign nations must keep off of the Americas, but some of our
                            Cabinet leaders and senatorial statesmen seem to forget that the doctrine should work both
                            ways; that is to say, if it is logical and proper to say to foreign nations that they shall
                            not interfere in the Americas it is logical and proper for foreign nations to say that we
                            shall not interfere in their affairs. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the
                                gander.6
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  2 Because of changes in congressional boundaries and labels, Ludlow
                        represented the Seventh District from 1929–1933, the Twelfth District from
                        1933–1943, and the Eleventh District from 1943–1949. Despite the changes
                        in nomenclature, his constituency always included 
                            Indianapolis
                         and vicinity. Congressional Directory (1929– 1949).
               
                  3
                        Congressional Record, 76 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 9.
               
                  4 Ludlow Speech, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , October 28, 1934, quoted ibid., 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 29.
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 76 Cong., 1 Sess., 4271.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., 2184.
            
            
            The first six years of Ludlow's congressional career, from 1929 to 1935, yielded little of
                    permanent significance. He did eventually receive a seat on the powerful House appropriations
                    committee and became very popular among his fellow representatives, but otherwise he did little
                    which distinguished him from most other congressmen. His greatest concern during this period seemed
                    to be the increasing growth of federal power and administrative agencies, a tendency which he
                    deplored and condemned on numerous occasions.7 Four of the remaining measures in
                    which Ludlow expressed interest prior to 1935 were of limited importance: a proposed constitutional
                    amendment granting equal rights to women, which he sponsored on several occasions; anti-lynching
                    legislation, which he strongly supported; the repeal of prohibition, which he firmly opposed; and
                    the establishment of a Federal Industrial Commission, which he believed would "aid in the
                    stabilization of employment in industry, agriculture, and commerce."8
                    Ludlow's relative obscurity, however, ended abruptly when he assumed leadership of the war
                    referendum movement in 1935.
            The concept of a war referendum did not originate with Ludlow. During the period of neutrality prior
                    to American entry into World War I in 1917, several members of Congress, undoubtedly reflecting the
                    prevalent belief of the Progressive Era that the public should have a greater voice in the
                    determination of important issues and fearing that the United States might be drawn into the
                    European war, introduced in Congress several proposed constitutional amendments providing for a war
                        referendum.9 Typical was Senate Joint Resolution 227 introduced by Senator
                    Robert L. Owen of 
                        Oklahoma
                     on January 15, 1915, which stipulated: "No war of aggression shall be waged by
                    the Army or Navy of the United States, except upon a declaration of war by the Congress of the
                    United States, ratified and approved by a majority vote of the majority of the legal votes cast upon
                    the question in a majority of the Congressional districts of the United States."10 A few prominent political leaders, 
                  
                     7 In a 
                                New York
                            
                            Times article of January 12, 1930, Section III, p. 6, entitled
                            "Bureaucratic Rule Seen as Menace," he reprimanded local citizens for
                            giving up the struggle against centralization too easily and urged them to renew their
                            efforts. Ludlow's fourth book, America Go Bust: An Expose of the
                                Federal Bureaucracy and Its Wasteful and Evil Tendencies (
                                Boston
                            , 1933), further illustrated his concern with loss of power at the local and
                            state levels. For Ludlow's views on centralization, also see Congressional Record, 72 Cong., 1 Sess., 8401–405, 15236–38;
                            and 72 Cong., 2 Sess., 4602–603.
                  
                     8
                            Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 2 Sess., 9287–88,
                            10736–37; 72 Cong., 2 Sess., 4528–29; 71 Cong., 3 Sess., 842. Ludlow
                            was especially incensed by the absence of a federal anti-lynching statute. In a June 20,
                            1936, speech, he maintained that "the crime of lynching is the ugliest, the
                            blackest, the foulest blot on civilization, and our failure to take effective steps to wipe
                            it out is a burning national disgrace." Ibid., 74 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            10736.
                  
                     9 Thomas Hall Shastid, a 
                        Duluth, Minnesota
                     ,
                            medical doctor, had proposed the war referendum as early as 1896. He was the author of
                            several books and pamphlets, and over 2,000 newspaper and magazine articles appealing for
                            the war referendum. Thomas Hall Shastid to Louis Ludlow, March 2, 1936, Ludlow Collection,
                            Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . All manuscripts cited, unless otherwise noted, are in the Ludlow Collection.
                  
                     10 File on Senate Joint Resolution 227, 63 Cong., 3 Sess., Record
                            Group 46, Records of the Senate, National Archives.
               
                     including William Jennings Bryan and Robert M. LaFollette, Sr.
                    supported the war referendum proposal. In 1917, five days prior to President Woodrow
                    Wilson's request for a declaration of war against Germany, Bryan sent the following plea to
                    each member of Congress: "If you reach the conclusion that nothing but war will satisfy the
                    Nation's honor, is it too much to ask that, by a referendum, you consult the wishes of
                    those who must, in case of war, defend the Nation's honor with their lives?"11 In February of the same year, Bryan observed: "If we could get the
                    vote of the American people nine-tenths of them would say that we should defend ourselves, but that
                    not a boy should be sent to Europe to fight under the banner of a European monarch or die under a
                    European banner."12 During the Senate debate over the declaration of
                    war on April 4, 1917, LaFollette questioned, "Who has registered the knowledge or approval
                    of the American people of the course this Congress is called upon to take in declaring war upon
                    Germany? Submit the question to the people, you who support it. You who support it dare not do it,
                    for you know that by a vote of more than ten to one the American people as a body would register
                    their declaration against it."13 Although the United States'
                    intervention in the European conflict caused interest in the war referendum proposal to subside
                    temporarily, the disillusionment of the post-World War I years and the disintegration of
                    international peace machinery combined to attract new converts to the plan. In 1924, both the
                    Democratic and the Progressive national conventions included planks in their platforms advocating a
                    war referendum. The Democratic platform committee asserted: "Those who must furnish the
                    blood and bear the burdens imposed by war should, whenever possible, be consulted before this
                    supreme sacrifice is required of them."14 Both these parties, however,
                    were unsuccessful in the presidential election, and after that year a war referendum plank did not
                    appear in the national platform of a major political party. During the 1920's, several
                    resolutions advocating adoption of a war referendum were introduced in Congress, but there was
                    little public support or enthusiasm for such a measure, and, like their predecessors of the World
                    War I period, all of these proposals died in committee.15
            
            
               
                  11 Bryan to Members of Congress, March 28, 1917, quoted in Congressional Record, 65 Cong., 1 Sess., 147–48.
               
                  12
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, February 5, 1917, p. 4.
               
                  13
                        Congressional Record, 65 Cong., 1 Sess., 228.
               
                  14
                        Official Report of the Proceedings of the Democratic National Convention: 1924 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1924), 243; Kirk H. Porter and Donald Bruce 
                            Johnson
                        . National Party Platforms, 1840–1964 (
                            Urbana
                        , 1966), 255–56.
               
                  15 Between 1915 and 1930 war referendum resolutions were introduced in
                        Congress by, among others: Senators Thomas P. Gore of 
                            Oklahoma
                        , Edwin F. Ladd of North Dakota, and Clarence C. Dill of 
                            Washington
                        ; and Representatives Denver S. Church of 
                            California
                        , Henry T. Helgesen of North Dakota, Charles A. Lindbergh of 
                            Minnesota
                        , Joseph S. Wolff of 
                            Missouri
                        , John M. Evans of 
                            Montana
                        , and 
                            Hamilton
                         Fish, Jr. of 
                            New York
                        . Congressional Record, 65 Cong., 1 Sess., 6469; 68 Cong., 1
                        Sess., 92; 69 Cong., 1 Sess., 8342; 64 Cong., 1 Sess., 1930; 64 Cong., 2 Sess., 3466, 3734; 68
                        Cong., 1 Sess., 830; 70 Cong., 1 Sess., 98; and 71 Cong., 1 Sess., 3019. Citations here, and in
                        succeeding notes, are given in the order of the names or events to which they refer.
            
            
            The strong resurgence of isolationism during the 1930's, especially following the
                    congressional investigation headed by North Dakota Senator Gerald Nye into the cause of American
                    entry into World War I, created new interest in a war referendum. Many Americans were determined not
                    to repeat the experience of World War I—an involvement which, according to the results of
                    the Nye Committee investigation, had supposedly been caused by the influence of powerful munitions
                    and banking interests and vicious foreign propaganda. These convictions found their most dominant
                    expression in the mandatory neutrality legislation of the middle and late 1930's16 and in the war referendum crusade during the years from 1935 until 1941.
                    Ludlow was very much influenced by the results of the Nye Committee hearings. Early in 1935 he wrote
                    to Senator Nye: "I have followed with approval and admiration your masterful expose of the
                    machinations of munitions manufacturers who have not hesitated to foment strife and even to
                    precipitate wars in order to satisfy their greed for gain. I am sure the entire nation applauds the
                    major service you are rendering to humanity."17 Ludlow publicly
                    expressed his sentiments even more forcefully in an article published in World
                    Affairs: "On reading these hearings one has a sense of utter shame that there are
                    creatures who call themselves business men who are such strangers to the common impulses of humanity
                    that they eagerly, by bribery and chicanery whenever necessary, promote wars to slaughter their
                    fellow beings for the sake of filthy dollars."18
            
            As early as 1924, Ludlow had expressed his dissatisfaction with the constitutional procedure for
                    declaring war. In his autobiography he asserted that "the most monumental fiction in the
                    American governmental system today is the provision in the Constitution which gives to Congress
                    alone the power f declaring war." He then suggested that "the Constitution of the
                    United States should be amended so as to provide for a referendum on war."19 Yet during his first six years of congressional service he failed to take an active part in
                    the war referendum movement. During the years from 1929 to 1935 the leading supporters of the war
                    referendum in Congress were Representatives 
                  
                     16 Ludlow was also a strong advocate of mandatory neutrality
                            legislation. In a House speech of January 8, 1936, he declared: "I plead for a
                            neutrality policy based on law and against a neutrality policy based on the opinions or the
                            whim of the President who may be occupying the White House when trouble arises."
                                Ibid., 74 Cong., 2 Sess., 162. During that year he introduced a bill
                            which called for a presidential proclamation, to be issued upon the outbreak of hostilities,
                            forbidding exports of all kinds to belligerents and prohibiting loans and credits to
                            belligerents or to nationals of the countries involved. The penalty for violation of the
                            proclamation was to be a $10,000 fine or imprisonment up to five years, or both.
                            Ludlow's proposal also provided that the presidential proclamation inform American
                            citizens that they must travel on belligerent vessels at their own risk. Aliens seeking to
                            interfere with neutrality were to be arrested and deported, and recruiting in the United
                            States for belligerents was to be forbidden. Violators of the recruiting prohibition would
                            incur the same penalties as those exporting goods or credit. Ludlow's bill died in
                            the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ibid., 163–64.
                  
                     17 Ludlow to Nye, February 2, 1935.
                  
                     18 Louis Ludlow, "To End the Profits in Wars," World Affairs, XCVIII (March. 1935), 37.
                  
                     19 Ludlow, From Cornfield to Press Gallery,
                            405–406.
               
                    
                    
                        Hamilton
                     Fish, Jr. of 
                        New York
                    , James A. Frear of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and George B. There'll of 
                        Texas
                    .20 Despite their efforts, little support accrued to the movement
                    until Ludlow took command in 1935. In Ludlow's own words: "It was a defunct baby
                    when I found it, but I have tried to breathe into it the breath of life."21
            
            On January 14, 1935, Ludlow introduced his war referendum in the House of Representatives for the
                    first time. The Ludlow Resolution had two major provisions: 
                        Section 1. Except in the event of attack or invasion the authority of Congress to declare war
                            shall not become effective until confirmed by a majority of all votes cast thereon in a
                            Nation-wide referendum. Congress may by law provide for the enforcement of this section.
                        Sec. 2. Whenever war is declared the President shall immediately conscript and take over for
                            use by the Government all the public and private war properties, yards, factories, and
                            supplies, together with employees necessary for their operation, fixing the compensation for
                            private properties temporarily employed for the war period at a rate not in excess of 4
                            percent based on tax values assessed in the year preceding the war.22
                  
                     In a speech before the House, Ludlow explained the dual purpose of his measure:
                    "First, it gives to the rank and file of our citizenship who have to suffer and die and pay
                    the awful costs of war the right to decide whether there shall be a war. Secondly, it takes the
                    profits out of war, and by removing the incentive of those whose hellish business it is to foment
                    wars minimizes the probability of wars in the future."23 Ludlow soon
                    decided to eliminate the portion of his resolution which had called for the conscription of
                    personnel to operate the war properties. As he explained in a letter to Senator Nye, "I
                    felt that provision might create some antagonism and that it was unnecessary."24 In March, Congressman Ludlow's office issued his first public letter
                    urging support for the referendum. The letter encouraged individuals to pressure their congressmen,
                    to obtain resolutions from groups, and to seek support from the press and radio. Denying that his
                    resolution was a pacifist measure, the Indiana representative explained: "I am willing to
                    die for my beloved country but I am not willing to die for greedy selfish interests that want to use
                    me as their pawn."25
            
            Following its introduction, the Ludlow Resolution was referred to the House Committee on the
                    Judiciary, which had jurisdiction over proposed 
                  
                     20
                            Congressional Record, 71 Cong., 1 Sess., 3019; 73 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            104–109, 3522-23.
                  
                     21
                            U.S., Congress, Senate, Subcommittee of the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                Hearings, War Referendum, 76 Cong., 1 Sess., (1939), 105.
                  
                     22
                            Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 514.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid.
                  
                     24 Ludlow to Nye, February 9, 1935. This change had been suggested by
                            some of Ludlow's correspondents. For example, see E. J. Unruh, executive secretary,
                            Indiana Council on International Relations, to Ludlow, January 31, 1935; Ludlow to Unruh,
                            February 6, 1935; and Ludlow to Dorothy Detzer, executive secretary, Women's
                            International League for Peace and Freedom, May 20, 1935.
                  
                     25 Ludlow Public Letter, March 8, 1935, Ludlow War Referendum
                            Scrapbooks (8 voles.), I, 41, Lilly Library. Hereafter cited as Ludlow War Referendum
                            Scrapbooks.
               
                     constitutional amendments.26 In June,
                    subcommittee hearings concerning the measure commenced. Ludlow himself was the first witness, and he
                    introduced the other advocates of his proposal to the subcommittee. Testimony favorable to the
                    resolution was received from representatives of Congress, peace societies, colleges, labor,
                    women's clubs, and the clergy. No witnesses appeared in opposition to the measure. In
                    addition to the testimony of those who appeared in person, at Ludlow's request letters and
                    messages from other supporters were included in the report of the hearings.27
                    Former Secretary of State Frank B. Kellogg, who, along with French Foreign Minister Aristide Briand,
                    had been largely responsible for the negotiation of the 1928 Pact of 
                        Paris
                    , which attempted to outlaw war as an instrument of national policy, wrote, "I
                    certainly believe that if a national referendum were required before the United States should engage
                    in a war except in the case of repelling an invasion, it would go a long way toward preventing any
                        war."28 The proceedings of the subcommittee were completed in one
                    day, but no action was taken by the Committee on the Judiciary, with the result that the Ludlow
                    Resolution had not been brought to the House floor for consideration when the first session of the
                    Seventy-fourth Congress adjourned in August, 1935.
            When Congress reconvened early in 1936, Ludlow was still unable to persuade the judiciary committee
                    to report his resolution to the House. In February, he decided to file a discharge petition in order
                    to force the committee to release the war referendum measure. His loss of hope for a report from the
                    committee was evident in a letter to Edward Keating, editor of Labor magazine:
                    "It was apparent that the Judiciary Committee would do nothing with it, and the only way to
                    make progress now is through a discharge petition."29 Under House
                    rules, the resolution would be discharged only if a majority (218) of the members affixed their
                    signatures to the petition. By the conclusion of the second session of the Seventy-fourth Congress,
                    in June, 1936, only seventy-two congressmen had signed Ludlow's petition. The Indiana
                    Democrat, however, had no intention of abandoning his crusade. In 
                  
                     26 In a letter to Hatton W. Sumners of 
                                Texas
                            , chairman of the judiciary committee, Ludlow explained why he wanted a
                            constitutional amendment rather than a federal statute: "A statute might be
                            repealed by the next congress, or the next day by the same congress. The same forces that
                            maneuver the country into war would override or repeal all statutes that stood in their way.
                            Only a constitutional amendment would have permanency and stability enough to accomplish the
                            purpose." Ludlow to Summers, April 3, 1935, File on House Joint Resolution 167, 74
                            Cong., 1 Sess., Record Group 233, Records of the House of Representatives, National
                            Archives.
                  
                     27 U.S., Congress, House, Subcommittee No. 2 of the Committee on the
                            Judiciary, Hearings, To Amend the Constitution with Respect to the Declaration
                                of War, 74 Cong., 1 Sess. (1935), passim. One result of the hearings was the
                            appearance of several errors in the transcript of the testimony of Grouchier College history
                            professor Mary W. Williams, author of Anglo-American Isthmian Diplomacy,
                                1815–1915 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1916). Professor Williams, quite annoyed, wrote Ludlow: "The fact
                            that I had no chance to correct the stenographic report is cause for much mortification to
                            me, for the printed statements read as if I had been insane." After enumerating
                            various errors she concluded, "I trust that the undependable young man
                            [transcriber] gets the reprimand which he richly deserves." Williams to Ludlow,
                            August 10, 1935.
                  
                     28 Frank B. Kellogg to Ludlow, May 21, 1935, quoted in House Judiciary
                            Subcommittee, War Referendum Hearings (1935), 75–76.
                  
                     29 Ludlow to Keating, February 27, 1936.
               
                     a public letter he remarked optimistically that "these
                    seventy-two members comprise a fine nucleus of fighting support to carry on for the amendment in the
                    next congress." He also promised: "If I am re-elected I shall reintroduce the
                    resolution on the opening day of the next congress, and, backed by the fighting forces of members
                    already pledged to its support, I shall push on earnestly, aggressively, and with all the energy I
                    can command."30
            
            Ludlow's attempts during 1935 and 1936 to gain consideration of his resolution were
                    unsuccessful primarily because the nation was still preoccupied with domestic issues, such as Social
                    Security, the National Labor Relations (Wagner) Act, and the Works Progress Administration. The
                    Indiana congressman had attempted to organize support, but he lacked the backing of a strong
                    national group which would be able to supply abundant funds and publicity. Few people took
                    Ludlow's proposal seriously at this time, as evidenced by the lack of any significant
                    opposition. Peace societies, in response to the Nye Committee revelations, were more concerned with
                    securing mandatory neutrality legislation for the United States than with promoting the war
                    referendum. Isolationism was a powerful force in America during these years, but its supporters, for
                    the most part, had not yet adopted Ludlow's plan for keeping the nation out of war.31
            
            By the beginning of 1937, it seemed that the Ludlow Resolution would never be discharged from the
                    judiciary committee. Ludlow, however, persisted and introduced his proposal again during February.
                    Following the advice of one of his principal supporters, William F. Bigelow, editor of Good Housekeeping magazine, he further altered the resolution.32 This
                    time he separated the war referendum section from the property conscription portion and introduced
                    them as separate resolutions on February 5.33 The Committee on the Judiciary,
                    however, still refused to report any war referendum proposal to the House for consideration, and
                    Ludlow once more resorted to circulating a discharge petition. A combination of circumstances during
                    1937 helped to create a more favorable attitude in Congress toward the war referendum measure. The
                    worsening global situation (for example, the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese War) and an intensive
                    propaganda campaign begun under the auspices of the National Council for Prevention of War spurred
                    an ever increasing number of congressmen to sign Ludlow's petition. At the beginning of
                    June, the petition contained 120 names; by the middle of July, 155 had signed. When Congress
                    adjourned in August, 185 members were in the fold; but the Ludlow Resolution still remained in the
                    judiciary committee.
            
               
                  30 Ludlow Public Letter, June 23, 1936, Ludlow War Referendum Scrapbooks,
                        I, 115.
               
                  31 Manfred Jonas, Isolationism in America,
                            1935–1941 (
                            Ithaca
                        , N. Y., 1966), 136–205.
               
                  32 Ludlow to Bigelow, February 17, 1937.
               
                  33
                        Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 1 Sess., 947. Bigelow believed that there
                        would be greater opposition to the conscription of property clause than to the war referendum
                        itself and that it was best, therefore, to separate these provisions. Bigelow to Ludlow,
                        February 19, 1937.
            
            
            In late 1937, Ludlow and the war referendum advocates received ar. unexpected opportunity to secure
                    the additional thirty-three necessary signatures, an opportunity of which they were able to take
                    successful advantage, President Franklin Roosevelt had been largely unsuccessful in obtaining
                    legislative approval of his program during 1937 and faced increased opposition in Congress,
                    especially after his efforts to enlarge the Supreme Court in an attempt to secure judicial decisions
                    favorable to New Deal measures. The President, therefore, convened Congress in a special session
                    beginning November 15, 1937,34 and Representative Ludlow resumed his quest for
                    signatures. By December 12, the date of the Japanese attack on the American gunboat Panay in China, 205 congressmen had signed the discharge petition, and within the next two
                    days the final thirteen names were affixed.35 Shortly after the completion of
                    the discharge petition, Congress adjourned for the Christmas holidays, and further action was
                    deferred until January 10, 1938.36
            
            Support for the war referendum was not strictly in accordance with political or geographical
                    boundaries. Signers of Ludlow's petition included 151 of the 329 Democrats, 55 of the 90
                    Republicans, 4 of the 5 Farmer-Laborites, and all 8 Progressives. Sentiment for the proposal was
                    strongest in the traditionally isolationist Midwest and weakest in the South, although significant
                    numbers of supporters were to be found in all sections of the nation.37
                    Generally, the war referendum was favored by advocates of mandatory neutrality legislation and an
                    isolationist foreign policy and was opposed by the supporters of discretionary neutrality and an
                    internationalist foreign policy. Many prominent individuals and organizations were involved in the
                    debate over the resolution's feasibility and did not hesitate to use their positions and
                    influence in an attempt to sway American public opinion. Organizational support for the Ludlow
                    Resolution was strongest among church, pacifist, and educational groups such as the National Council
                    for Prevention of War, the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, World Peace
                    ways, the Keep America Out of War Congress, the Fellowship of Reconciliation, the American
                    Federation of Teachers, and the National Education Association.38 Individuals
                    flocking to Ludlow's cause included Representative Fish of 
                        New York
                    , ranking Republican member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Representative
                    Maury Maverick, a 
                        Texas
                     Democrat; Representative Everett Dirk sen, an 
                        Illinois
                     Republican; Senators Robert M. LaFollette, Jr. of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Nye of North Dakota, and Arthur 
                  
                     34 Roosevelt's message of November 15, 1937, called for the
                            passage of a new agricultural program, new wages and hours standards, certain conservation
                            measures, and reorganization of the executive branch of government. Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 2 Sess., 5-7.
                  
                     35
                            lbid., 1516–18; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, December 15, 1937, pp. 1, 20.
                  
                     36 Under House rules, discharge petitions containing signatures of a
                            majority of the members had to be considered on the second and fourth Mondays of each month.
                  
                     37
                            
                                New York
                             Times, December 15, 1937, p. 20.
                  
                     38 House Judiciary Subcommittee, War Referendum Hearings
                                (1935), passim; Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, War Referendum
                            Hearings (1939), passim; and Jonas, Isolationism in
                                America, 160–62.
               
                     Capper of 
                        Kansas
                    ; former Secretary of State Kellogg; Archbishop Michael J. Curley of 
                        Baltimore
                    ; Oswald Garrison Villard, former editor of The Nation; Bigelow; and
                    two retired military officers, Major Generals William G. Rivers and Smedley D. Butler.39 Moreover, the long range goals of Ludlow and those supporting his position were
                    respected even by many who disagreed with the war referendum as a means to achieve them. Senator
                    Elbert D. Thomas of 
                        Utah
                     commented: 
                        Few will be in disagreement with the objectives which the sponsors of this amendment attempt
                            to achieve.
                        The sponsors are men who are definitely against war. They are men who would like to see war
                            cease to be used as a medium of national action. They are men who have adopted the thesis
                            that the American world is a large enough world for America's activity. They are
                            men, too, who accept the theory that we were drawn into the last war by propaganda, by our
                            own actions, by breaking our neutral position, and by not remaining aloof. They are men who
                            know that the objectives of the last war were not attained, and that a resort to arms again
                            would not bring benefits even to the victors. They are men who commonly urge the point that
                            America should mind its own business.40
                  
                    
            
            Of all those favoring adoption of the war referendum, the most zealous and persistent advocate
                    undoubtedly was Ludlow himself. He took full advantage of his position in the House to present his
                    ideas regarding the proposal, and to announce periodically the exact number of signatures on the
                    discharge petition, and the names of new groups and individuals which supported his cause.41 One of the most serious obstacles which he faced was the lack of necessary
                    financial support which would allow him to give greater publicity to his resolution. His awareness
                    of this problem was evident in a speech calling for assistance just prior to the adjournment of the
                    House in 1935.
            
                    My own means are so limited that I cannot give the proposal the publicity which its merit
                        warrants or the promotion that is necessary to bring it forward and make it stand out as an
                        essential feature of the next legislative program, so I would be glad if persons of financial
                        resources, who wish to do something worth while for humanity, would take the task in hand to see
                        that funds are provided and organizations are established to bring the resolution to public
                        notice in their respective communities and to urge those who are interested to ask their
                        Representatives and Senators in the Congress to support it. Only by such combined and intensive
                        efforts can success be attained.42
               
                
            
               
                  39
                        Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 2 Sess., 3587; 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 12814; 75
                        Cong., 3 Sess., 192–96; 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 2410–11; House Judiciary
                        Subcommittee, War Referendum Hearings (1935), 75–76; Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 6248; Jonas, Isolationism in
                            America, 160; Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 976;
                        75 Cong., 1 Sess., 1898–99; 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 6249. Ludlow corresponded with most of
                        these supporters. For example, see Maverick to Ludlow, July 1, 1935; Curley to Ludlow, May 29,
                        1936; Capper to Ludlow, March 30, 1935; Ludlow to Fish, August 31, 1937; Dirksen to Ludlow, July
                        8, 1937; and Villard to Ludlow, April 12, 1937.
               
                  40 Radio address by Elbert D. Thomas, March 5, 1939, quoted in Congressional Record, 76 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 835.
               
                  41 On April 16, 1940, Ludlow quoted the following message which he had
                        received from Chief Natachee of the Pawnee Indians: "Your long talk was good and all
                        good people should stand for your words and bill. May the Great Spirit help you to pass your
                        bill to be a law soon." Ibid., 76 Cong., 3 Sess., Appendix, 2536.
               
                  42
                        Ibid., 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 14551.
            
            
            As early as April, 1936, Ludlow had written to William Bigelow that his life was devoted to the
                    referendum, and one year later he confided to the same correspondent: "My services are
                    dedicated to the advancement of this peace legislation above all things else. There is nothing I can
                    honorably do to promote it that will be left undone."43 Between 1935
                    and 1938, Ludlow presented his arguments to the people of the United States by practically every
                    available means. He devoted many hours to the preparation of radio addresses and newspaper and
                    magazine articles which appeared in many diverse publications.44 During the
                    interim between the Seventy-fourth and Seventy-fifth congresses he wrote a volume entitled Hell or Heaven, the title suggesting that America's fate depended on the
                    failure or passage of his resolution.45 In addition, the Hoosier Democrat
                    attempted by personal correspondence to increase the list of notable figures who had joined the
                        crusade.46
            
            Ludlow was thoroughly familiar with the logical and historical arguments in favor of his proposal.
                    Not opposed to all conflict, he distinguished between just and unjust wars. In a speech on February
                    19, 1935, he observed: 
                        There are some wars which as far as finite vision can discern are God-ordained and
                            inescapable, such as the War of the American Revolution which was to enthrone in our social
                            order great principles of human rights, and the War between the States, which was to write
                            in blood and tears the fate of the institution of slavery, but history points out that a
                            large majority of wars that have cursed the human race have been due to machinations and
                            greed. It is to protect our children and our children's children and the remote
                            generations of posterity for all time to come against a recurrence of these unholy wars that
                            my amendment is directed.47
                  
                     Arguing for his war referendum proposal he stressed the singular importance of the war
                    decision, the excessive influence of the President upon American diplomacy, and the absence of any
                    effective means of recording popular sentiment on questions of war or peace. Congress, he
                    maintained, was extremely susceptible to diverse pressures, particularly from the Executive, when a
                    declaration of war was being debated—much more susceptible, supposedly, than the public
                    at large. 
                        To declare war is the highest act of sovereignty. It is a responsibility of such magnitude
                            that it should rest on the people themselves and should not be delegated to any man or any
                            body of men. Under the present system whoever happens to be 
                        
                           43 Ludlow to Bigelow, April 9, 1936, and April 3, 1937.
                        
                           44 Louis L. Ludlow, "The Peace Amendment,"
                                        Journal of the National Education Association, XXVI (December,
                                    1937), 285–86; Louis Ludlow, "To End the Profits in
                                    Wars," 36–42; Louis Ludlow and David J. Lewis,
                                    "Referendum on Making War?" Chirstian Science Monitor
                                        Weekly Magazine Section, January 5, 1938, pp. 1–2; Louis L.
                                    Ludlow and Charles I. Faddis, "Should We Vote on War?" Forum and Century, XCVIII (November, 1937), 238–42; and
                                    Louis L. Ludlow, et al., "Who Shall Say When We Shall Go
                                    to War?" Good Housekeeping, CVIII (March, 1939),
                                    24–25, 166–70.
                        
                           45 Louis Ludlow, Hell or Heaven (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1937).
                        
                           46 For example, see Newton Baker to Ludlow, September 12,
                                    1935, Ludlow War Referendum Scrapbooks, I, 90C; John J. Pershing to Ludlow, October
                                    19, 1937; 
                                        Henry
                                     Mencken to Ludlow, February 26, 1935; and William Green to Ludlow,
                                    April 5, 1935. These four men rejected the Indiana congressman's plea for
                                    approval of the war referendum.
                        
                           47
                                    Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 2251.
                     
                             President of the United States has it within his power
                            so to coerce Congress that he can lead the Nation into any war, as President Polk led us
                            into war with Mexico primarily for the purpose of gaining territory to the southwest. It is
                            unfair to expect the Members of Congress, after all of the atmosphere of war has been
                            created, to resist the terrific pressure and propaganda for war, thus subjecting themselves
                            to the taunts and charges of treason that are always hurled at those who do not go along
                            with the leaders in such circumstances.48
                  
                     In response to critics' contentions that if such a referendum were desirable the
                    founding fathers would have included such a provision in the Constitution of 1787, Ludlow countered:
                    "I think the reason they did not is very simple and very apparent. At that time the means
                    of communication were very limited…. The framers of the Constitution knew that under such
                    circumstances a referendum on war was impracticable, if not impossible, so they placed the power to
                    declare war as near to the people as they could under the circumstances then existing and lodged it
                    in the Congress." Pointing out that that objection was no longer applicable, Ludlow
                    concluded: "The true objection to a war referendum has been eliminated by fast trains, by
                    air mail, and radio."49 To impress upon his audience the urgent
                    necessity of adopting his plan, Ludlow often exploited the dreadful possibilities of modern warfare,
                    warning: 
                        The very thought of what the next war will be like, with its cornucopia of horrors, its
                            refinements of cruelty based on the amazing progress that has been made in the development
                            of scientific warmaking processes; its aerial bombardments raining death from the skies; its
                            lethal gases and disease germs produced with satanic ingenuity to torture and kill by
                            wholesale civilians as well as the fighting forces—staggers the imagination,
                            blinds the intellect, and sickens the heart of long-suffering humanity.50
                  
                     In an appeal to the female population, the Indiana representative mourned the
                    woman's role in war: 
                        At the present time the women of America are out of the war picture, except for the privilege
                            vouchsafed them of doing an awful lot of the suffering when war comes. And why should women
                            not have a vote on declarations or war? Women go down into the valley of the shadow of death
                            to bring our boys into the world. Why should they not have something to say as to whether
                            their flesh and blood shall be hurled into the hell of a foreign conflict?51
                  
                     Answering critics' charges that adoption of the war referendum would be a
                    violation of the American system of representative democracy, Ludlow asserted: 
                        Assumption of the war power by the people would not destroy or in any way impair the
                            representative character of our Government. The argument so strenuously urged by opponents
                            of the war referendum that the transfer of the war-making power from Congress to the people
                            would break down our representative form of government is utterly fallacious and ridiculous.
                            It would simply mean that in respect to the greatest and most tragic of all issues the
                            people comprising our great American Democracy have themselves chosen to make the
                                decision.52
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     48 Ludlow, "To End the Profits in Wars," 38.
                  
                     49
                            Congressional Record, 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 13172.
                  
                     50 Ludlow, "The Peace Amendment," 285.
                  
                     51 Ludlow, "Who Shall Say When We Shall Go to War?"
                            168.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 167.
               
                     Ludlow optimistically predicted that success of his plan would
                    insure a peaceful future for the United States: "I believe that if this amendment is
                    adopted America will never enter another foreign war in the settlement of other people's
                    quarrels, and perhaps will never enter another war of any kind, unless the need should come to wage
                    a righteous war of self-defense."53
            
            Ludlow was influential in the formation of the National Committee for the War Referendum, a new
                    coordinating organization formed during the final months of 1937. Its purpose was to inform the
                    public about the proposed amendment and to bring pressure on congressmen to pass the Ludlow
                    Resolution. The committee's chairman was retired Major General Rivers, and the board of
                    directors included Ludlow; Bigelow; William Allen White, editor of the Emporia (
                        Kansas
                    ) Gazette; and Dr. John A. Ryan of the National Catholic Welfare
                    Council. Also among the leaders of the group was Stephen Raushenbush, formerly chief investigator
                    for the Nye Committee.54 The crusade of the Indiana congressman continued to be
                    strongly supported by the National Council for Prevention of War. This organization included over
                    twenty affiliated pacifist groups, and used its abundant funds and influence to urge passage of the
                    war referendum. Members of the council delivered speeches, wrote magazine articles, issued petitions
                    and press releases, published pamphlets, and lobbied in Congress.55 The effect
                    of the crusade on the average citizen can only be estimated. The American Institute of Public
                    Opinion asked a representative cross section of the American public: "In order to declare
                    war should Congress be required to obtain the approval of the people by means of a national
                    vote?" The percentage responding affirmatively during the period from 1935 to 1938 varied
                    as follows: November, 1935, 75 per cent; September, 1936, 71 per cent; October, 1937, 73 per cent;
                    and October, 1938, 68 per cent.56 Despite this seemingly overwhelming popular
                    support for the Ludlow Resolution, the vast majority of American newspapers were staunchly opposed
                    to it and harshly criticized the measure, particularly after it became certain that the House of
                    Representatives would vote on its consideration.57
            
            Prior to Ludlow's successful completion of the discharge petition in December, 1937,
                    outspoken critics of the war referendum resolution had not been numerous. On November 22, 1937,
                    Ludlow remarked: "I have heard of almost no opposition coming from any quarter. I have been
                    agreeably surprised by the apparent unanimity of sentiment with which the proposal is 
                  
                     53
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 1 Sess., 98.
                  
                     54 Ludlow Public Letter, December 22, 1937, Ludlow War Referendum
                            Scrapbooks, IV, 452A; Ludlow to Bigelow, December 4, 1937; Ludlow to Rivers, September 29,
                            1937, and December 9, 1937; and Rivers to Ludlow (telegram), December 11, 1937.
                  
                     55 Frederick J. Libby, executive secretary, N.C.P.W., to Ludlow, April
                            2, 1937.
                  
                     56 George Gallup and Saul Forbes Rae, The Pulse of
                                Democracy: The Public-Opinion Poll and How It Works (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 315. Information on the number who responded is not available.
                  
                     57 For a summary of editorial opinion on the war referendum proposal,
                            see Manny T. Koginos, The Panay Incident: Prelude to War (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1967), 87–91.
               
                     being received."58 However, with
                    the realization that public and congressional support for the measure had increased substantially,
                    opponents moved quickly in an attempt to prevent its consideration. Within the Roosevelt
                    administration, principal opposition came from the President himself, from Secretary of State
                    Cordell Hull, and from Assistant Secretary of War Louis 
                        Johnson
                    .59 In the House of Representatives, Speaker William Bankhead of 
                        Alabama
                    , Majority Leader Sam Rayburn of 
                        Texas
                    , judiciary committee chairman Hatton Sumners of 
                        Texas
                    , and Democrat Emanuel Cellar of 
                        New York
                     led the critics of the war referendum proposal.60 The
                    administration's condemnation of the resolution received strong support from two
                    influential Republicans: Alfred Landon, the party's 1936 presidential candidate, and 
                        Henry
                     Stimson, secretary of state during the Hoover administration.61
                    Their opposition doubtlessly caused some of Ludlow's Republican adherents to reconsider
                    their decisions. Organizations strongly critical of the war referendum proposal included the
                    American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.62 Typical of the attacks made
                    by the critics of the Ludlow Resolution was the speech given by Assistant Secretary of War 
                        Johnson
                     before the University Club in 
                        Los Angeles
                     on January 5, 1938. 
                        Johnson
                     maintained that enactment of the war referendum would reduce the President "to
                    a mere figurehead in international affairs," and cause the State Department to be
                    "shorn of its influence," the Navy to be "scuttled," and the
                    Army to be "licked without firing a shot." 
                        Johnson
                     predicted: "Instead of perpetual peace … we would have constant
                    war. Our property would become booty for the international buccaneers and our shores an invitation
                    to ruthless invaders." Labeling Ludlow's plan an "untried innovation in
                    the orderly governmental processes of our country," the assistant secretary of war
                    condemned the war referendum as the "very antithesis of representative
                    government." 
                        Johnson
                     insisted that the average citizen lacked the training, experience, and time to consider
                    properly the great questions of government policy, and that the war referendum would take valuable
                    time to conduct when time was "the one essence of battle we can least afford to
                    waste." A final criticism was that the holding of a referendum would lead to a divided
                    nation at a moment when unity was essential.63
            
            Ludlow never directly attacked the President,64 always maintaining that while
                    Roosevelt had no evil intentions, it was entirely possible that a future 
                  
                     58
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 2 Sess., 244.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 277; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, December 16, 1937, p. 19; and Congressional
                            Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., Appendix, 126–28.
                  
                     60
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 277, 281, 1477–80,
                            Appendix, 464–65.
                  
                     61 Landon to Franklin D. Roosevelt, December 20, 1937, quoted in 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, December 22, 1937, p. 14.
                  
                     62
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix, 485; 75 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                            Appendix, 97–98.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., 75 Cong., 3 Sess., Appendix, 126–27.
                  
                     64 Ludlow supported most of Roosevelt's domestic policies and
                            often expressed his admiration for the New Deal leader. As early as May 26, 1933, Ludlow
                            said of Roosevelt: "I echo a thought that is widely prevalent
                            throughout the world today when I thank God for this splendid man and for the promise held
                            forth in his 'new deal.' Millions upon millions of disconsolate and sorely
                            laden human beings … are
               
                     President might very well possess more sordid motives and plan
                    to maneuver the country into war against the wishes of the majority of citizens. According to
                    Ludlow, "No stauncher friend of peace ever occupied the executive office than President
                    Roosevelt, but after all, the period of one President's service is but a second in the life
                    of a nation, and I shudder to think what might happen to our beloved country sometime in the future
                    if a tyrant of Napoleonic stripe should appear in the White House, grab the war power, and run
                        amuck."65 The President did not expound on the subject of the
                    Ludlow Resolution—perhaps to avoid giving added publicity to a measure which would
                    greatly weaken the Chief Executive's discretion in the conduct of foreign relations.
                    Shortly after Ludlow introduced the measure for the first time in January, 1935, he wrote to the
                    President, explaining the proposal and asking for support: "I do not know of any more
                    fitting cap-sheaf to your great program of social benefits than this proposed constitutional
                    amendment would be, and I hope and pray that you may see your way clear to give your powerful
                    support to it, or to some similar amendment."66 In reply Ludlow
                    received a note from Louis M. Howe, Roosevelt's secretary, merely acknowledging receipt of
                    the letter.67 As early as January, 1936, Ludlow sensed Roosevelt's
                    dissatisfaction. Writing to Bigelow, the Indiana congressman said: "I am of the opinion
                    that the President does not favor the proposal, though I have not received any rejection from
                        him."68 In December, Ludlow again wrote to the President asking for
                    his endorsement: 
                        I submit that this proposed war referendum would complete the democratic processes in the
                            spirit of the Bill of Rights and would be in exact harmony with the wishes of Thomas 
                                Jefferson
                             and Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             if they were alive today. When the Constitution was framed the means of
                            communication were so poor that a war referendum was obviously impractical. We are now
                            living in a different age when communication is marvelously rapid and when the President,
                            sitting before the microphone in the White House, talks simultaneously to all America. We
                            are now ready for the war referendum. As a crowning achievement of an administration so
                            signally dedicated to the service of humanity, I would rejoice if you would use your great
                            name and influence to complete the democratic processes by democratizing the war power.69
                  
                    
            
            This time Roosevelt himself sent Ludlow a note simply acknowledging receipt of the letter.70 Following Ludlow's success with his discharge petition, Roosevelt
                        
                  receiving the inspiration of renewed faith when they turn their eyes toward the present
                            occupant of the White House at 
                                Washington
                            ." Ibid., 73 Cong., 1 Sess., 4389. In late 1934,
                            Ludlow wrote to the President: "Your administration is already secure in history.
                            In my judgment you have made a name as a humanitarian second only to 
                                Jefferson
                             and 
                                Lincoln
                            . No President since Jefferson has done more for the laborer and the common man
                            than you have done. You have written into the social structure certain great and salutary
                            reforms and practices and there they will remain forever." Ludlow to Roosevelt,
                            November 19, 1934, quoted ibid., 74 Cong., 1 Sess., 14813.
                  
                     65 Ludlow, "The Peace Amendment," 285.
                  
                     66 Ludlow to Roosevelt, January 21, 1935, Franklin D. Roosevelt
                            Collection, Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            , PPF 2007.
                  
                     67 Howe to Ludlow, January 24, 1935, ibid.
                  
                     68 Ludlow to Bigelow, January 5, 1936.
                  
                     69 Ludlow to Roosevelt, December 21, 1936, Roosevelt Collection, OF
                            274.
                  
                     70 Roosevelt to Ludlow, December 29, 1936, ibid.
               
                     was asked by a reporter whether he thought a war referendum was
                    consistent with representative government. His terse reply was simply "No!"71
            
            Other opponents were even less kind. House Speaker Bankhead and Representative celler, who had been
                    chairman of the judiciary subcommittee which had held hearings on the Ludlow Resolution in 1935,
                    intimated that strong alien influences supported Ludlow. Celler maintained that the Nazi Germans
                    favored the resolution because it would "destroy all of our effectiveness, moral and
                    otherwise, in any foreign difficulty." Both congressmen agreed that Ludlow and his
                    followers were not parties to any such plot, but only "enthusiastically
                        misguided."72 The idea that Ludlow's motives were sound
                    but his proposal ridiculous was suggested by Representative Byron Harlan of 
                        Ohio
                    : 
                        This is one of those proposals that is so hard to argue against because the people who make
                            the proposal mean so well, and as a class are such fine citizens.
                        The gentleman from Indiana [Mr. Ludlow] is about the most lovable character we have in this
                            House. Everybody likes him. He would not do a thing intentionally to harm this country;
                            neither would the man who proposed the Townsend bill, nor the man who proposed the Coughlin
                            idea or the Frazier-Lemke bill, or any other of those queer notions designed to appeal to
                            the emotions of small blocs of people.73
                  
                     Other critics charged that many congressmen had signed the discharge petition merely
                    because of their friendship with Ludlow, and not because of any sincere desire to see his proposal
                    become part of the Constitution.74
            
            As January 10, 1938, the date set for the vote on the Ludlow Resolution,75
                    approached, both sides planned their final strategies. Ludlow suffered a setback on January 7, when
                    60 of the 218 signers of his discharge petition met and decided to try for the necessary votes three
                    days later as scheduled. They believed that the chance of victory was good and that, even if the
                    proposal was defeated, publicity for their cause was assured, the crusade could be continued, and
                    victory perhaps could be secured at a later date. Ludlow, on the other hand, favored a postponement
                    of the vote, hoping that increased popular support would accrue to the resolution during the longer
                    interval. He was also uncertain whether all of the 218 signers of his petition would back the
                    measure on January 10, and wanted additional time in which to persuade and pressure possible
                    recalcitrant colleagues. A further consideration was that a delay would disassociate the war
                    referendum issue from events abroad (such as the Panay incident) and possibly
                    prevent an opposition 
                  
                     71
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, December 18, 1937, p. 3.
                  
                     72
                            ibid., December 20, 1937, p. 20; January 8, 1938, p. 4.
                  
                     73
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 131.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., 163.
                  
                     75 Only a majority vote was needed to secure consideration of the
                            measure by the House, but passage of the constitutional amendment itself, of course, would
                            require a two-thirds majority in both the House and the Senate and approval by thirty-six
                            state legislatures or special ratifying conventions.
               
                     accusation that Ludlow was embarrassing the American government
                    in its conduct of foreign relations.76
            
            Ludlow decided to appoint a "steering committee" to consider amendments to his
                    resolution that might improve its chance of passage.77 As a result, the war
                    referendum measure was redrafted on January 9. The revised form provided that a referendum was not
                    necessary if an attack was "immediately threatened" or if a "non-American
                    nation" threatened to invade any nation in the Western Hemisphere.78 It
                    was this alternate proposal that was presented to the House of Representatives the next day.
                    Congressman John A. Martin of 
                        Colorado
                     expressed the opinion that this late and radical change actually hindered rather than
                    improved its prospects for passage. According to 
                        Martin
                    , "The proposal of the substitute was a serious admission against the original
                    proposition on the part of its sponsors."79 President Roosevelt
                    meanwhile had arranged for Postmaster General James A. Farley, who was also chairman of the
                    Democratic National Committee, to telephone Democratic House members to enlist their support against
                    Ludlow. Farley recalled that "some members frankly said they were unable to go along with
                    the administration. Other members said that in deference to my request, they would stand by the
                    administration and vote in the negative."80
            
            On January 10, Ludlow obtained recognition from Speaker Bankhead and called for a vote on the
                    question of discharging the war referendum resolution from consideration by the judiciary committee.
                    House rules limited total debate time to twenty minutes on this type of question. Prior to the
                    balloting, Speaker Bankhead read a letter from President Roosevelt, who termed the resolution
                    "impracticable in its application and incompatible with our representative form of
                    government" and explained that "such an amendment to the Constitution as that
                    proposed would cripple any President in his conduct of our foreign relations, and it would encourage
                    other nations to believe that they could violate American rights with impunity. I fully
                    realize," Roosevelt continued, "that the sponsors of this proposal sincerely
                    believe that it would be helpful in keeping the United States out of war. I am convinced it would
                    have the opposite effect."81 Majority Leader Rayburn warned that if the
                    House voted to discharge the Ludlow Resolution "it would make the 
                  
                     76 Ludlow War Referendum Scrapbooks, IV, 518; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 8, 1938, p. 4. Congressman Celler was one critic who level
                            led such a charge. Celler to Oswald Villard, December 14, 1937, quoted in Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix, 494–95.
                  
                     77 The "steering committee," in addition to Ludlow,
                            consisted of Representatives 
                                Hamilton
                             Fish, Jr. of 
                                New York
                            , Harold Knutson of 
                                Minnesota
                            , Knute Hill of 
                                Washington
                            , Samuel B. Pettengill of Indiana, Caroline O'Day of 
                                New York
                            , Gerald J. Boileau of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , and Herman P. Kopplemann of 
                                Connecticut
                            .
                  
                     78
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., Appendix, 207.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., 187.
                  
                     80 James A. Farley, Behind the Ballots: The Personal
                                History of a Politician (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 362. Congressman John Robsion of 
                                Kentucky
                             commented: "I have never seen greater pressure exerted than was on
                            this particular matter." Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                            Appendix, 112.
                  
                     81 Roosevelt to Bankhead, January 6, 1938, quoted in Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 277.
               
                     most tremendous blunder it has ever made since the formation of
                    our Government under the Constitution."82 At the conclusion of the
                    brief debate a voice vote was taken. Bankhead ruled that those opposed to consideration of the
                    resolution were in a majority. Ludlow wisely demanded a roll-call tally, but the final tabulation
                    showed 188 favoring consideration and 209 opposed to it. Republicans voted for consideration
                    64–21, but Democrats opposed it, 188–111. The 8 Progressives and 5
                    Farmer-Laborites all favored consideration. Of the 218 congressmen who signed Ludlow's
                    discharge petition less than one month earlier, 154 voted for consideration, 54 opposed
                    consideration, 7 abstained, 2 had resigned from Congress, and 1 member had died.83 Consequently, the Ludlow Resolution remained with the judiciary committee, from which it
                    never emerged. The Roosevelt administration had won its battle, but the shift of a mere eleven votes
                    would have turned defeat into at least a temporary victory for Ludlow and the war referendum
                    advocates. In the closeness of the vote, New Deal historian William E. Leuchtenburg has observed a
                    measure "both of the President's tenuous control of foreign policy and, as late as
                    1938, of the hardrock strength of isolationist sentiment in America."84
            
            Considering the defeat only a temporary setback, Ludlow continued to press for enactment of the war
                    referendum resolution. Bitterly he described the proceedings of January 10: "The scene in
                    the American Congress on that day paralleled the scene in the Roman Senate when Brutus'
                    dagger struck down Caesar, except that the dagger of Brutus went to the heart of a tyrant while the
                    dagger thrust of intolerance in the American Congress went to the very heart of
                        democracy."85 Later, he still maintained his belief that the value
                    of his proposal would eventually be recognized by the nation: 
                        Great reforms move slowly, but we believe we have made a valuable contribution to peace and
                            have rendered a service to the cause of democracy in advancing this proposal. We believe
                            that in the long sweep of years this proposal will be vindicated; that although years and
                            even decades may intervene before those who have to fight and die may be allowed to render
                            their verdict on participation in foreign wars, they will ultimately attain that goal.86
                  
                     Ludlow apparently bore no animosity toward the Roosevelt administration because of his
                    defeat. He distinguished between what he called the "loud, raucous, rampant opposition of
                    the special interests … which frequently resorted to mean and untruthful attacks
                    …" and the opposition of Hull and Roosevelt, which he respected because they
                    were "honest and sincere."87
                    
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., 281.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 282; 75 Cong., 2 Sess., 1518. Among those who
                            signed Ludlow's petition but voted against consideration were Maury Maverick and
                            Lyndon B. Johnson of 
                                Texas
                            .
                  
                     84 William E. Leuchtenburg, Franklin D. Roosevelt and the
                                New Deal, 1932–1940 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 230.
                  
                     85
                            Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 9242.
                  
                     86
                            Ibid., Appendix, 207.
                  
                     87
                            Ibid., 9241.
               
                     Speaking of Roosevelt's role in the defeat of the
                    resolution, Ludlow commented: "I have no complaint of the President for throwing the
                    tremendous force of his administration in the scales against my resolution. … I grant to
                    him the same honesty of purpose I claim for myself. I am sure he follows the dictates of his
                    conscience, just as I seek to follow the dictates of mine."88 In
                    addition to reintroducing his resolution in the House during each Congress until 1941,89 Ludlow worked with a group of senators who had introduced similar war referendum
                    proposals in the upper chamber.90 He had hopes of seeing a war referendum plank
                    in the 1940 national party platforms, and was enthusiastic when the America First organization
                    backed his plan and continued to offer its support as late as 1941.91 Less than
                    four months prior to the Pearl Harbor attack on December 7, 1941, Ludlow complained that the House
                    judiciary committee was "smothering my resolution, just as it has been doing since
                        1935."92
            
            Despite the introduction of similar measures in the Senate, interest in the war referendum proposal
                    waned in the late 1930's as the situation in Europe became more critical. In a letter to
                    Major General Rivers, Ludlow's aide, Raushenbush, described the situation less than five
                    months after the near victory in the House: "We got out some letters to a few people on our
                    lists to see whether there was still any interest in the referendum … but there is almost
                    none … a few dollar bills trickle in."93 The entry of the
                    United States into World War II sounded the death knell for the war referendum movement, and such a
                    measure was never seriously considered after 1941.
            Although he did not abandon his war referendum plan, Ludlow tried in other ways to keep the United
                    States free from involvement in World War II. On January 3, 1939, he proposed a resolution providing
                    that the United States should take the lead in suspending naval construction and should call an
                    international conference to discuss limitation of armaments. On March 
                  
                     88 Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, War Referendum
                            Hearings (1939), 102.
                  
                     89
                            Congressional Record, 76 Cong., 1 Sess., 185; 77 Cong., 1 Sess., 20.
                  
                     90 Ludlow to Nye, January 5, 1939; Ludlow to Capper, December 27,
                            1940; and Capper to Ludlow, December 31, 1940. On February 25, 1938, a war referendum
                            resolution similar to Ludlow's was introduced by Senators Homer T. Bone of 
                                Washington
                            , Arthur Capper of 
                                Kansas
                            , Bennett Champ 
                                Clark
                             of 
                                Missouri
                            , Vic Donahey of 
                                Ohio
                            , Lynn J. Frazier of North Dakota, Herbert E. Hitchcock of South Dakota, Robert
                            M. LaFollette, Jr., of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Ernest Lundeen of 
                                Minnesota
                            , James E. Murray of 
                                Montana
                            , Gerald P. Nye of North Dakota, Henrik Shipstead of 
                                Minnesota
                            , and Burton K. Wheeler of 
                                Montana
                            . The proposal, after dying in committee in 1938, was reintroduced in 1939, and
                            hearings were held on the resolution beginning on July 6 of that year. As a result of these
                            hearings the Senate judiciary committee voted to report the measure without recommendation.
                            On October 27, 1939, just prior to the passage of another neutrality act by the Senate, an
                            amendment in the form of a war referendum resolution was presented by Senator LaFollette.
                            After considerable debate it was rejected by a 73–17 vote. Congressional Record, 75 Cong., 3 Sess., 2410–11; 76 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            986–1000; Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, War Referendum
                            Hearings (1939), passim.
                  
                     91 Nye to Ludlow, April 10, 1940; Ludlow to Senator Robert F. Wagner,
                            April 5, July 11, 1940; and General Robert E. Wood to Ludlow, February 11, 1941.
                  
                     92 Ludlow to Mary W. Williams, August 25, 1941.
                  
                     93 Raushenbush to Rivers, May 30, 1938.
               
                     13, 1939, he offered a bill proposing a national referendum on
                    the question of peacetime conscription. On February 27, 1941, he introduced a resolution calling on
                    the President to invite representatives of Western Hemisphere nations to meet in 
                        Washington
                     and attempt to mediate the European conflict.94 The day following
                    the Pearl Harbor attack, Ludlow, although he voted with all of his colleagues except one for the
                    declaration of war, summarized his own feelings of frustration: 
                        I think that our entire foreign policy in recent years has been fundamentally wrong, in that
                            it has utterly disregarded the wise advice of 
                        Washington, Jefferson
                     , and other
                            founding fathers against foreign entanglements. I want the record to show, as it does show,
                            that I have not, by any acts of mine contributed in any way or at any time or in any degree
                            to what I believe to be this erroneous policy of world involvement. I have opposed, and
                            whenever Congress was allowed a vote, I have voted against every one of these deviations
                            from correct principles because I wanted America to remain free, strong, and independent,
                            and at peace with the world. By no act of mine have I contributed to the deplorable
                            situation that now confronts us.95
                  
                    
            
            As World War II drew to a close, Ludlow resumed his efforts to assure permanent peace. On July 20,
                    1945, he introduced a resolution urging an immediate international agreement to eliminate compulsory
                    military service and proposing that the President, secretary of state, and United States
                    representative to the United Nations should work for an international agreement whereby all nations
                    would adopt a war referendum. On September 5, 1945, he proposed a resolution urging action by the
                    United Nations to ban the atomic bomb as an instrument of war. Finally, on November 12, 1945, he
                    offered a bill providing for the creation of a cabinet level Department of Peace and Good Will.96 These proposals, like his aforementioned prewar measures, all died in
                    committee. Yet, it was still a war referendum for the United States which captivated
                    Ludlow's imagination until the end of his life. In July, 1945, he again suggested adoption
                    of such a measure: 
                        I am not offering this resolution now for immediate disposal but for consideration in
                            connection with long-range post-war plans. Now is not the time to urge a vote upon it but
                            when we are again at peace with the world, I shall press it with every ounce of my energy
                            and with every scintilla of hope and faith that I can muster to the cause.97
                  
                     Although he did not reintroduce his war referendum amendment after the war, he did speak
                    reverently and fondly of it until the very end of his long congressional service in 1949. On August
                    4, 1948, he reminisced: 
                        Looking backward, I cannot escape the belief that the defeat of the resolution was one of the
                            tragedies of all time. The leadership of the greatest and most powerful nation on earth
                            might have deflected the thinking of the world into peaceful channels. 
                        
                           94
                                    Congressional Record, 76 Cong., 1 Sess., 37, 2681; 77 Cong., 1
                                    Sess., Appendix, 904–905.
                        
                           95
                                    Ibid., 77 Cong., 1 Sess., 9527.
                        
                           96
                                    Ibid., 79 Cong., 1 Sess., 7890, 8337, 10616, 10619.
                        
                           97
                                    Ibid., Appendix, 3320.
                     
                             Instead we went ahead with tremendous pace in the
                            invention of instruments of destruction, frightful bombing planes and, most awful of all,
                            the atom bomb….
                        It is now too late for war referendums. World peace psychology has been fore-feited forever.
                            The nation that wins the next world war will be the one that is quickest on the trigger with
                            its fast bombing planes and atom bombs. Largely by our leadership we have ushered in a new
                            age of world insecurity, but I cannot help thinking what might have been.98
                  
                    
            
            Although the war referendum crusade ended in failure, it is nevertheless important to recognize the
                    campaign as a measure which Ludlow and others believed would assure world peace. Ludlow's
                    otherwise undistinguished career would have marked him for historical anonymity, but he gained
                    limited recognition because of his dedicated work for the war referendum, not only as a United
                    States congressman, but also as an author and publicist who appealed directly to and won the support
                    of a large segment of the American public. A Newsweek magazine staff writer
                    offered perhaps the best summary of Ludlow's brief moment of glory: "For eight
                    years … he remained about as obscure as the average Congressman. Then suddenly
                    … his long-cherished constitutional amendment … made him an international
                    figure and the despair of national statesmen."99
            
            
               
                  98
                        Ibid., 80 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix, 4853.
               
                  99 Vote 'X' for War," Newsweek, X (December 27, 1937), 13.
            
         
         
         
            Family Letters of Andrew Wylie, President of Indiana University
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            Contributed by Mrs. Thana Wylie∗
            
            The four letters which follow1 are personal and family letters from the pen of
                    Andrew Wylie, the first president of Indiana University, 1829-1851. Wylie's letter to his
                    wife, Margaret, was written in 1835, while she was visiting in Cannonsburg, western Pennsylvania,
                    where they had lived before he became president of Indiana University or Indiana College as it was
                    known from 1828 to 1838. It alludes to difficulties in the construction of "the
                    building"—presumably the residence now known as Wylie House which was erected
                    during the 1830's. In a very human way it evidences Andrew Wylie's concern for his
                    wife, how much she was missed, and the problem of managing household and family affairs in her long
                    absence. It also pictures some of the common perils and hardships of travel in pioneer days.
                    Moreover, the letter to Mrs. Wylie, like those to sons Craig and Sam, reveals the considerable hold
                    which religious faith and views had on Dr. Wylie.
            The three remaining letters from President Wylie to his sons Craig and Sam suggest much regarding the
                    mingled hopes and doubts, aspirations and frustrations, and promises and setbacks which he faced as
                    president of Indiana University. President Wylie not only administered the internal affairs of the
                    infant university, but he also did some of the teaching and spent much time ironing out thorny
                    problems with trustees, placating legislators, and giving addresses at meetings of importance.
                    Within the institution there was frequent turmoil among faculty members, between the professors and
                    students, and in relations between town and gown. Faced with a multiplicity of duties, Wylie, as the
                    letters amply illustrate, was vulnerable to attack on several fronts.
            
               
                  ∗ Acknowledgement is made to Mrs. Thana Wylie, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, for making xerox copies of these letters available for publication. Mrs.
                        Wylie, whose husband was a grandson of President Wylie, has generously made other xerox copies
                        of these letters available to the Lilly Library, Indiana University, and also to the Indiana
                        University Archives. They, along with a number of similar letters already in the archives, are
                        an important source of information concerning Andrew Wylie and the beginnings of Indiana
                        University.
               
                  1 The biographical material in this introduction largely follows James
                        Albert Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 1820–1902 (Vol. I; 
                            Chicago
                        , 1940), 204–207 and Herman B 
                            Wells
                        , "The Early History of Indiana University as Reflected in the
                        Administration of Andrew Wylie, 1829–1851," The Filson Club
                            History Quarterly, XXXVI (April, 1962), 113–27. The editor thanks Mrs. Mary
                        B. Craig, archivist, Indiana University, for her assistance concerning illustrations. Thanks
                        also are due Mrs. Karen Tannenbaum, former assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine
                            of History, for doing much of the research for this document.
            
            
            
               PORTRAIT OF MRS. ANDREW WILEY Courtesy Indiana University Archives
            
            
            
               PORTRAIT OF ANDREW WILEY Courtesy Indiana University Archives
            
            
            These three letters also indicate an abiding paternal interest in what his sons were doing and in the
                    kind of men he hoped they would become. His comments to Sam about health and exercise now seem a bit
                    amusing; but they, and his emphasis on the even greater importance of the "health of the
                    soul," indicate a father's deep concern for his children.
            Andrew Wylie, born on April 12, 1789, grew up on a farm in western Pennsylvania and performed the
                    usual hard work typical of rural life of that day. Of Scotch-Irish extraction, the family was
                    Presbyterian. Wylie himself was licensed as a Presbyterian minister in 1812 and was ordained an
                    Episcopal minister in 1841. In 1810 Wylie graduated from 
                        Jefferson
                     College, in western Pennsylvania; two years later, when only about twenty-three years
                    old, he was elected president of the college. In 1817 Wylie became president of nearby Washington
                    College and in 1829 he moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, to assume the presidency of Indiana College.
            As a farm boy Wylie had learned how to swing the ax in chopping and felling trees. While president of
                    Indiana University, he at times performed such labor for exercise. In 1851 while so doing, he cut
                    his foot; the resulting complications led to his early death from pneumonia.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bloomington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 24th 18351
                           
                                
                        My Dear Margaret.
                        Through the great goodness of God our lives & health are still preserved.
                                    Last week we received your letter by Eliza which gave us the very welcome account of
                                    your safe arrival at Wheeling & of the welfare of our friends generally. It
                                    is here, as yet, a time of general health: though we have had almost incessant rains
                                    & tremendous floods since within a few days after you left us till this week
                                    which has been fair. But now it thunders, the sky is overcast & we expect
                                    rain again. Mrs Nichols departed this life last monday week. This was, you know, not
                                    an unexpected event. You would, doubtless, like to know how we make out to get along
                                    without you. And I am afraid & almost ashamed to tell. The amount of it is,
                                    we do the best we can, & that is bad enough. We have Nancy Swift, without
                                    whose assistance we could not get along at all. In the house things are broken
                                    & lost at a sad rate. The 
                              
                                 1 In the preparation of these letters for publication,
                                            every attempt has been made to transcribe President Wylie's
                                            handwriting accurately. However, both his writing and the condition of some
                                            of the letters have forced the editor to use some discretion in interpreting
                                            certain words or phrases. In those instances where a word or part of a word
                                            was unclear, the most likely correct choice has been inserted in brackets.
                                            In a few cases, a blank indicates complete illegibility of the word omitted.
                                            As was common in his day, Wylie did not always use standard capitalization
                                            or punctuation; his style has not been corrected. Likewise, abbreviations
                                            and obvious misspelling remain untouched. Raised letters and numerals have
                                            been brought down to the line.
                           
                                     building is at a stand. I am distracted
                                    & ready to sink under the burden of so many cares. I wish a thousand times
                                    every hour that you were safe at home with us. I feel lost & miserable
                                    without you & am so much reduced in flesh & spirits that you would
                                    hardly know me. I count the hours as months till you return. I say not this to urge
                                    your return. For I tremble to think of the danger by the way. The cholera, as you
                                    have, no doubt, heard, has lately broken out with fatal violence at 
                                        Madison
                                    , where as many as from 12 to 20 have been buried in a day. And rumor
                                    says it is also at 
                                        Louisville
                                     & other places along the river. I have sometimes the most
                                    melancholy foreboding.—this, you know is my besetting sin, & I
                                    strive against it as well as I can. The death of our lamented William, presses
                                    harder on me also since you left us, so that my spirits are sometimes quite sunk.
                                    Then "I chide my heart that sinks so low" & look around to
                                    count the many & unmerited blessings which Our Heavenly
                                    Father—blessed be his Holy Name!— still allows us to
                                    enjoy—& then again I reproach myself with ingratitude &
                                    unprofitableness. Thus wretchedly do I waste my life & strength. Most
                                    fervently to I pray, & try to hope, that your life may be preserved,
                                    & that you may be kept in health & peace & restored to us
                                    once more. But I know & feel that the time will be long.
                                    For I cannot think of advising you to come so long as the cholera continues on the
                                    river: & to come through in the stage as I did last year would be, for you, out of the question, unless you had some kind &
                                    intimate friend for a protector. Even then, I should hardly advise it, for the road,
                                    unless greatly improved since last year, is, towards this end of it, scarcely
                                    passible. So that, on the whole, I must try & content myself the best way I
                                    can, till frost comes in the fall, when, if you live, you can descend the river
                                    without danger from cholera. But what shall take place, or what shall become of us
                                    before that time, God only knows. Our duty, in the mean time, is meekly to resign
                                    ourselves to his most holy will, making it our great & main concern to
                                    commit the keeping of our souls to Him, in welldoing as to a
                                    merciful Creator, seeking his face & favor with our whole hearts, &
                                    encouraging ourselves in the cheerful hope, that whenever
                                    & wherever & by whatever means
                                    "our earthly house of this tabernacle may be dissolved we may have a
                                    building of God an house not made with hands eternal in the heavens."
                                    There, my dear Margaret, might it please our gracious God, that you & I & all our dear
                                    children should meet at last—after all our crosses, trials &
                                    sorrows in this short life— O the transporting thought! it is too
                                    much—my unbelieving heart will not let me entertain it. This—
                                    alas! alas! is my infirmity. God strengthen my faith & hope! God, of his
                                    boundless mercy & grace grant us this great & amazing blessing for
                                    Christ's sake! Amen! Amen! Amen! O were his Amen to it,
                                    how would my burdened soul bound, exult & triumph. Well, let me say,
                                    "Thy will be done"! But I have something to do
                                    for the attainment of this end! O what responsibility!—  I never yet in all my life engaged in any thing with so
                                    little spirit as this building; & nothing to which I ever
                                    put my [hands?] dragged so heavily. But yet it seems to have been forced upon me by
                                    necessity.—Things, too, seem to go against in the undertaking. At this
                                    moment the rain descends in torrents. Craig, poor fellow, is, likely, out in it; for
                                    he went with the waggon, this morning to the mill, for boards to cover a lime kiln
                                    which the rains have nearly spoiled. Three days ago, John went a black
                                    berrygathering on the old mare without my knowledge. The mare threw him &
                                    only came home this morning. Yesterday the luckless fellow (John) fell off the
                                    sawpit & hurt his head against a log. He is well enough now; but I was sadly
                                    frightened for a while lest he had sustained some serious or perhaps fatal injury. I
                                    see, from these escapes, how easy it would be, did a guardian 
                                        Providence
                                     intermit his care, for us to have sorrow upon sorrow. How thankful
                                    should we be for safety, health, reason & all Gods other
                                    precious gifts & mercies!—Anderson continues to enjoy pretty good
                                    health. If the weather permitted him to be taken out, he would not be any thing the
                                    loser by his weaning.
                        All join me in love to you & all our friends.
                        
                                    Your ever loving & affectionate husband
                                    Andrew Wylie
                                
                        Mrs M. Wylie P. S. Should the cholera cease, & good company offer
                                    & should you wish so to do, we, particularly I, would be very, very desirous how soon you could get
                                    away from dear friends, at Cannonsburg & Wheeling to meet once more a dearer friend in this miserable 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . Yours as ever A. W. N. B. Should any of our married ladies be
                                    disposed to make themselves merry & witty at my expense, now that I am left
                                    in the sad predicament of a lonely lover whose dearest jewel is so far away, you can
                                    tell them—I trust from your own experience—but I know not how
                                    that may [be?]—that 20 years acquaintanceship in the marriage life
                                    [m]akes the parties, if they love each other, only the more [ne]cessary to their
                                    mutual happiness. A W. So with one thing & another, I have let my pen run on
                                    till my space is all filled. Remember me specially to our dear
                                    mother. 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bloomington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 1st 1840
                                
                        Dr Craig.
                        If you get but few letters from us, do not think we forget you but only that we are
                                    busy. I am particularly so. Dodds & Mary have come back from 
                                        Spencer
                                     to which they had removed—not being pleased with things
                                    &  prospects there. Mary is still in
                                    ill-health. They talk of going up to Pennsylvania. If they
                                    go—for it is yet doubtful—Elizth will probably go with them.
                        As to the University I cannot say very confidently. Ammen proves to be a most
                                    efficient teacher.2 If Morrison who will be here in the fall
                                    should do his part as well the Faculty will be second to none this side Yale3 Foster seems to be sunk—though still not so low as
                                    he ought & would were the community high toned in their
                                    feelings—He introduced among his charges one too
                                    atrocious to mention: it related to William & aimed at fixing a black stain
                                    on his memory4 Bennet was summoned to prove the unutterable
                                    thing—but did not give testimony: the committee having resolved to
                                    adjourn to meet again the week before the meeting of the Board. In this matter my
                                    patience has been severely tryed & I have need to pray "lead me not
                                    into temptation"—that of doing to Foster what, for my own sake I
                                    ought not.
                        I receive letters from 
                                        Columbia
                                     Mo. from which as well as from other sourses I suppose that they will elect me to the presidency of the University to be
                                    established there. But I do not much fancy the idea of another
                                    removal—especially westward.5 There are many signs of
                                    the tide turning in my favor in this state. But there is no dependence to be put in
                                    what we call tides of popular favor—nor indeed in man in any shape.
                        I find it difficult to get money—So, if my pamphlets are sold, I wish you
                                    to take the money & with it pay Fetter. I hope to be able shortly to pay him
                                    off intirely. Mary's journey will cost me something, & there are
                                    many ways to take away, & but one to bring in money. You
                                    will have to be frugal & depend on yourself chiefly.—We expect to
                                    receive the Equator shortly under better auspices I trust. A periodical is I think
                                    indispensible to us.—The family are in tolerably go[od] health. John has
                                    had a slight chill [which?] seems what the Irish people call Dr Leatherman wrote me
                                    lately. He still has some notion of removing to 
                                        Missouri
                                    .
                        
                           
                              2 Jacob Ammen, a graduate of West Point, was a professor
                                        of mathematics at Indiana University, 1840–1843. He also directed the
                                        students in military drill; but this practice, begun under him, was discontinued
                                        upon his departure from the university. James Albert Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 1820–1920 (Vol. I; 
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1940), 166–68, 257, 284.
                           
                              3 John I. Morrison was professor of languages at Indiana
                                        University, 1840–1843. In the latter year he resigned to become
                                        principal of a seminary at 
                                            Salem
                                        , Indiana. As a member of the Indiana Constitutional Convention,
                                        1850–1851, and in other ways as well, Morrison made significant
                                        contributions to the university. Woodburn, History of Indiana
                                            University, I, 121, 173–74, 257.
                           
                              4 The persistent and vigorous opposition of Dr. William C.
                                        Foster, a 
                                            Bloomington
                                         physician, to Dr. Wylie is noted in Woodburn, History
                                            of Indiana University, I, 119–20. The remarks about Foster
                                        are from an historical sketch of the university by Judge David D. Banta which
                                        constitutes the first several chapters of the Woodburn history.
                           
                              5 Nothing about this invitation has been found in
                                        Woodburn.
                        
                        
                        Give my best respects to Mr. & Mrs. Miller & Bayless &
                                    family. Shew respect to the latter they have always been our friends. Of the former
                                    I need say nothing. Render yourself as useful as you can: shun vice & the
                                    vicious: cultivate the virtues & piety. Study the Bible & pray to
                                    God to direct you in all your ways.— "Trust in the Lord
                                    & be doing good: so shalt thou dwell in the land & verily thou shalt
                                    be fed."
                        
                                    Your afftc father
                                    A Wylie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bloomington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 6th 1846
                                
                        Dear Son.
                        I am happy to find that you have good sense enough to shew you the propriety of
                                    writing home without having been particularly charged to do so;—&
                                    that you seem to have managed other little affairs with a "quantum
                                    suff." of discretion.
                        I shall have your books and things sent by Woodwards waggon to care of B. O. Davis.
                                    It starts on monday next.
                        I am in a hurry preparing to go to convention6 John goes with me
                                    to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     (where it meets) & thence on to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . He seems to be still getting better: but his constitution has received
                                    a severe shock and it will be long yet before he recovers—if ever.
                        You will be in danger of a thousand things from which no care of mine—nor
                                    your own, nor any other mortal can preserve you. Think of this.
                        As to health: you must take exercise every day & keep the pores clean by seeeating washing is good; but it acts on the end of the tube:
                                    whereas the sweat goes through and cleanses out the whole channel
                        But health is not the chief thing, important as it is. You may rise early—
                                    take the morning air, avoid late hours & hard eating & drinking and
                                    all other things which tend to disease & yet you may get into ways which are
                                    not good, as to the health of the Soul. Put it down in your inmost thoughts that all
                                    those things are evil and will prove so in the end which tend to make one forget
                                    God.
                        You will do well to remember that you are poor; have no fortune in prospect and that
                                    the people among [whom] you live being wealthy you may not safely imitate their
                                    expensive habits. Be plain & decent in your dress: this is enough to please
                                    sensible people, and the less you follow such as are not so the better.
                        
                           
                              6 This convention was probably an educational or religious
                                        meeting, many of which Wylie attended.
                        
                        
                        What remains of the price of the mare—having paid for the
                                    CornSheller—consider as yours: but the other is yours only to use till you come home. Being in a slave-state I suppose you cannot
                                    readily get the privilege of working enough for exercise. If so, you must ride
                        God bless & guide you in the right way
                        
                                    Your affct father
                                    A Wylie
                                
                        Mr S. Wylie
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bloomington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feb. 21st, 1847
                                
                        Dear Sam.
                        Lest you should think yourself forgotten, I fill up an interval by writing to you.
                                    Your mother is still in bad—very bad health—chills and fever
                                    with regular irregularity sometimes very violent. We have no girl. Poor
                                    'Liz is our only dependence. She is a heroine. But I am sorry she is so
                                    oppressed. We have two boarders Charles West & Chris. Graham good boys
                                    enough: but in a month or so they will leave, & then no more of that.
                                    — New Years night Dodds had a party the Faculty all at it but myself. I
                                    was sick. Williams & Trimble members of the Senior class & leaders
                                    of the Philomathian Society organized the Society that night as a band of
                                    Chivareers—they blacked themselves &c and cut up capers round
                                    Dodds's house, in short the Faculty, finding Williams & Trimble to
                                    have been in the affair called them to account.7 They brought
                                    the rest—Some twenty—to share their fate. The Faculty demanded
                                    an apology. It was given such as it was. That of Williams & Trimble was hardly an apology. But the Faculty agreed to accept it with the
                                    rest & ordered me to dispose of the case with remarks on the impropriety of
                                    such conduct. I did so. Williams & Trimble, offended because the remarks
                                    were not postponed till some distant period when they might not be thought of in
                                    connexion with said remarks, demanded an honorable dismission. It was not granted.
                                    They, aided by Millan & some others of the Law Department, threw the
                                    Philomaths into a phrenzy. They passed certain resolutions censuring the Faculty
                                    & giving Diplomas to Williams & Trimble who went out of town with
                                    the mob shouting for 
                                        Greencastle
                                    ! So the thing ended. But the end is not yet. Of cour [se] I will be
                                    made the butt, at which shafts from all who for any reason may think it the time to
                                    join in, will be aimed. Of course, too, the sectarian opposition will take advantage
                                    of it and at the next meeting of the Legislature I expect a scheme for some time in
                                    agitation will be pushed into execution if possible to divide the funds of the
                                    University 
                              
                                 7 The Philomathean Society was one of various literary
                                            societies which played an important part in the early decades of the
                                            university's development. As here indicated, however, not all of
                                            their activities were literary. Woodburn, History of Indiana
                                                University, I, 77, 201–202, 230–31,
                                            303–304, 316–17.
                           
                                     among the leading Sects.8
                                    — There is no telling what the event may be. The students are quiet now:
                                    but there is in some of them a bad spirit.
                        From 'Mag. & 'Rene I hear almost every week Margaret thinks
                                    she can learn nothing, & of course will not learn much. Irene learns well:
                                    but has gone to balls: a thing [of?] which I do not approve
                        From John I hear nothing lately.
                        The rest join in love to you. You like not your present occupation. I'd
                                    rather clean streets like a scavenger than be a dirty pettifogging puppy such as
                                    some of these in our Law School will be if they live.
                        Be an honest man at any rate: be a Christian and then in the end you will find what
                                    in this world you will not find—peace & happiness
                        
                                    Your afftc father
                                    A Wylie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8 Continued charges claimed that Indiana University was sectarian, often
                        insisting that Presbyterian influence was dominant. Woodburn, History of Indiana,
                            University, I, 21, 29–30, 32, 33, 73–76, 112–16, 211,
                        251–52, 265, 363, 374. As these references indicate, both David D. Banta and James
                        Albert Woodburn defended—perhaps more vigorously than warranted—the
                        university against the charge of sectarianism.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society Minutes
            
                    Edited by Pamela J. Bennett
                
            Contributed by I. George Blake∗
            
            One of the earliest peace societies in the United States originated in 
                  Salem, Washington
                    County
               , Indiana, in 1819. The minutes published here record its history from
                    the active and hopeful beginning until the summer of 1826 when these minutes terminate.
            The first entry reports a preliminary meeting, late in 1818, of the 
                        Quaker
                     founders at the Blue River Meeting House1 a few miles from 
                        Salem
                    , where they laid the groundwork for the society. The next meeting on January 9, 1819,
                    was a general meeting to which the public— "all those who are friendly to the
                    above institution"—was invited. At this time, the constitution for the society
                    was read and subscribed to by forty-nine men, and officers were appointed. Less than two weeks later
                    the officers met and began efforts to communicate with other societies and to procure more copies of
                    the Friend of Peace2 and other relevant literature. At
                    succeeding meetings bylaws were adopted, a formal explication of motives and goals was formulated,
                    circulation of peace materials was promoted, and annual reports3 of activities
                    were duly produced by the trustees and ordered printed for distribution. Until May, 1821, the
                    society met quarterly according to its constitution; thereafter meetings were held annually in May.
                    The later minutes—usually brief and perfunctory—reflect an apparent dwindling
                    of interest of the majority of the members and a great difficulty in obtaining funds.∗ It is impossible to say 
                  
                     ∗ I. George Blake is a professor of history at 
                                Franklin
                             College, Indiana.
                  
                     1 The Blue River Monthly Meeting was established in July, 1815. The
                            meeting house was "completed in 1816, on land donated by Matthew Coffin."
                            Warder W. Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                    Washington County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 363. See also B. C. Hobbs, Autobiography of William
                            Hobbs (Indiana 
                                Quaker
                             Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 8–9.
                  
                     2 The Friend of Peace is a periodical tract that was
                            edited by the Reverend Noah 
                                Worcester
                             and published by the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Peace Society; it contains proceedings and documents of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             society, correspondence with societies in the United States and abroad, and
                            essays and debates about peace. The individual numbers are not dated, but the 
                        
                                    Union
                                 List of Serials lists Volumes I through IV published in 
                                Boston
                             from 1815 to 1827. There seem to be twelve numbers per volume. Presumably this
                            magazine, referred to often in the 
                                Salem
                             Peace Society minutes, was reprinted and distributed by the 
                        Warren County, Ohio
                     , Peace Society; according to the 
                        
                                    Union
                                 List of Serials Volumes I through II, Numbers i-viii, were published
                            in 
                                Cincinnati
                             from 1817 to 1818.
                  
                     3 See the Appendix to this document, page 318, where the second,
                            fourth, fifth, and eighth annual reports are printed.
                  
                     4 Several causes for this change can be postulated. Most general is
                            the widespread depression during the late teens and early twenties. More closely allied is a
                            $4 tax levied by county commissioners in 1822 on men who, for reasons of
                            conscience, "refused to muster with the militia, or take part in any warlike
                            matters." Many of the men who originally subscribed to the society constitution
                            paid the assessment. Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                    Washington County
                                , Indiana, 205–206. The general lack of interest during the
                            later years of the society was possibly a result, too, of dissension within the 
                                Quaker
                             community over the Hick site doctrines. Hobbs, Autobiography of
                                William Hobbs, 12–16.
               
                     how long the society continued and what it really accomplished,
                    but the available minutes provide an interesting example of the general trend of peace societies
                    during the early nineteenth century.
            The rise of these societies5 is attributed to the disillusionment and horror
                    which became prevalent with the destructive and costly warfare of the French Revolution, the
                    Napoleonic Wars, and the War of 1812. Various publications against war appeared in the United States
                    and Great Britain during these years, but the most influential was the Solemn Review of
                        the Custom of War
               5 by the Reverend Noah 
                        Worcester
                    , a 
                        Quaker
                     from Brighton, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . This work was translated often and circulated widely in Europe as well as in Great
                    Britain and the United States. It is a masterfully written condemnation of war and the men who make
                    war possible or even necessary to the He of a nation; much of its reasoning is encompassed by the
                    preamble to the 
                        Salem
                     Peace Society constitution and by the statement of motives read in December, 1818. This
                    pamphlet and similar writings apparently helped to stimulate widespread peace activity when world
                    events began to give men hope that peace was actually possible.
            Around 1815 men envisioned a peaceful world with some hope of eventual success. The Napoleonic Wars
                    had ended; the Holy 
                        Alliance
                    — presumably that "solemn league" of European
                    powers—gave great encouragement to many men who sought peace; and the United States and
                    Great Britain ratified the Treaty of Ghent which emphasized the necessity for arbitration in
                    conflicts between nations and which provided "an admirable lesson on the subject."
                    And thus "the present time of favor" brought about the formation of peace
                    societies both in the United States and abroad.
            David Low Dodge founded the earliest known society in 
                        New York
                     in August, 1815. Others soon followed: 
                  Warren
                        County, Ohio
               , and 
                        Massachusetts
                     in December, 1815, and one in Great Britain by William Allen in June, 1816, in 
                        London
                    . Regarding their further development, Gurti states: "From 1815 to 1828
                    American peace sentiment was marked by its local character, since the peace societies, spontaneously
                    formed in widely separated communities, maintained independent existences. But soon they began to
                    exchange letters with one another, and gradually something like a unified action in the interest of
                    peace developed. Until the formation of the American Peace Society in 1828, however, the story is
                    largely the story of local, independent organizations."7 The fourth
                    annual report of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Peace Society states that "from the information received, there are now 
                  
                     5 For more explicit information on the peace
                            movement—especially in America— the following books are quite helpful:
                            Merle E. Curtis, The American Peace Crusade, 1815–1860 (Durham,
                            1929); W. Freeman Gal pin, Pioneering for Peace (
                                Syracuse
                            , 1933). The general content of this introduction is derived from these sources,
                            and only specific references are cited.
                  
                     6 This book was originally published in 
                                Boston
                             in 1814; there are many editions and reprints available.
                  
                     7 Curtis, The American Peace Crusade,
                                1815–1860, p. 21.
               
                     in this country, besides the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Peace Society, and its twelve Auxiliaries, 15 Peace Societies in the United States: one
                    in 
                        Maine
                    , one in Rhode Island, five in 
                        New York
                    , one in 
                        North Carolina
                    , five in 
                        Ohio
                    , and two in Indiana."8 Within the next few years other
                    societies had been established in such diverse places as 
                  Connecticut, Vermont, Nova Scotia
               , Canada, Pennsylvania, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Scotland, Ireland, and France.
            Most of the peace societies had religious connections, and the purposes and rationale of the movement
                    were thoroughly seated in the doctrines of Christianity. Curtis states that Quakers were not
                    generally as active in the movement in the United States as in Great Britain—perhaps
                    because of geographical diversity and other problems of organization.9 The 
                        Salem
                     society, however, was stimulated mainly by Quakers, and the minutes reflect that
                    relationship in the terminology and explicit biblical allusions that are used throughout. Generally
                    the men who were active in the movement, however, were not only religious leaders but also
                    merchants, educators, and businessmen. Salem was apparently typical in that the prominent and
                    established men of the community provided the impetus for the movement. William Lindley had been
                    largely responsible for the founding of 
                        Salem
                    , Zachariah and Joseph Nixon were the first two landowners, Ebenezer Patrick and Beebe
                    Booth founded a newspaper among other enterprises, Benjamin Albert son was a medical doctor. Dr.
                    Benjamin F. True blood, presumably a nephew of Nathan True blood, later became a prominent leader of
                    the American Peace Society.10
            
            The 
                        Salem
                     Peace Society minutes document what is probably a representative experience for local
                    peace societies of the period. The frequent pleas for funds and members in the Friend
                        of Peace indicate that this was a general problem after the early heights of peace
                    activity. Curtis mentions that the Friend of Peace in 1825 "tried to
                    explain the decline in interest" as a result of distance from "the evils of the
                    struggle" of the War of 1812.11 The reasons for the decline are no
                    doubt many and varied, but the movement was sustained in the national organization, the American
                    Peace Society. Although the impact of such local peace society efforts is almost impossible to
                    determine, they at least "created an opinion favorable to peace and opposed to
                        war."12 The 
                        Salem
                     Peace Society was a relatively small and now little remembered venture, but it
                    demonstrates the spirit and motivation of men who desire peace and concord in the world.
            
               
                  8
                        Friend of Peace, II, vii, 11.
               
                  9 Curtis, The American Peace Crusade,
                        1815–1860, pp. 16–17.
               
                  10 Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana, 204–205, 383–85, 607. There is interesting
                        biographical information and samples of B. F. Trueblood's thinking in Benjamin F.
                        Trueblood, The Development of the Peace Idea, and Other Essays (
                            Boston
                        , 1932).
               
                  11 Curtis, The American Peace Crusade,
                        1815–1860, p. 24. See also Galpin, Pioneering for Peace, 28,
                        64–66.
               
                  12 Galpin, Pioneering for Peace, 71.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                            Salem
                         (Indiana) Peace Society Minutes
                    1
                
            At a meeting of a number of the Citizens of 
                        Washington County
                     State of Indiana, at Friends Meeting House at Blue River the 19th of the 12th Mo
                    (December) 1818. After being met proceed to appoint Willis McCoy, Chairman, & Benjamin
                    Albertson Secretary,—The Following Introductory Piece being produced was ordered to be
                    Read—which is as follows (to Wit).
            Some considerations on the Expediency of the Institution of a Peace Society; Humbly offered to the
                    serious attention of the Lovers of Peace, in the State of Indiana.
            When our minds are turned seriously to view [sic] the direfull effects of war,
                    whereby not only many thousands of souls have been precipitated into an awfull eternity, but
                    innumerable sufferings and great calamity have been brought upon many who were Innocent; what man
                    not devoid of the tender feelings of Humanity, or that hath any regard for religion or morality, who
                    will not feel his mind Impressed with sorrow, in considering the deplorable condition of mankind so
                    frequently engaged in destroying one another; and will he not be induced to Query, Shall the sword
                    devour forever?2 —Shall the situation of the human family in this
                    respect never be meliorated?—Can there be no method adopted for the composing of
                    differences & settling disputes between nations as well as Individuals, without recurring to
                    weapons of death?—Is it impossible for the evil Passions in 
                  
                     1 In editing these minutes every effort has been made to represent as
                            closely as possible the actual handwritten document, but printing has necessitated certain
                            changes. Liberties in spacing have been taken with such items as the centering of headings,
                            the use of double spacing to mark a new entry, paragraphing, and—with one
                            exception—the setting of lists in series rather than in column. Elevated letters
                            have been brought down to the line; obvious repetitions and flourishes have been omitted.
                            Periods have been substituted for flourishes and other marks and added where necessary.
                            Commas and semi-colons in series of arabic numbers and proper names have been standardized
                            throughout. With regard to spelling, [sic] has been used only when
                            spelling is inconsistent within the document or when there might be a question of an error
                            in transcription or printing. Proper names have been allowed to stand even though spelling
                            is inconsistent; correct spelling of names has not been given because reliable sources are
                            lacking. The plural of words ending in "y" varies between
                            "-ys" and "-ies;" the vowel sequence after
                            "c" is consistently "-ie" (for example,
                            "recieve"); and there are other non-standard spellings. Capitalization has
                            presented many problems. Obvious capitals or lower case letters have been retained although
                            they may be inconsistent with modern usage; but several letters are not distinguishable as
                            capital or lower case: "c," "w," and
                            "a" have definite capital forms, but the lower case form is used obviously
                            as both capital and lower case; the same "s" and "y" are
                            used for both capital and lower case in initial position. When there was a question of the
                            writer's apparent intention because of inconsistencies within the document, modern
                            usage was the final critérium for a decision. There has been no real attempt to
                            identify the people mentioned except when pertinent information was readily available. Xerox
                            copies of the original minutes, which are in the possession of the Hobbs family of 
                                Plainfield
                            , Indiana, were used in editing. Grateful acknowledgement is made to the family
                            for permission to publish the material and to Professor Blake for first submitting it. The
                            editor also thanks Miss Lulie Davis, Secretary of the 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, and Miss Amy Hammersmith, Librarian of the 
                                Salem
                             Public Library, for their help in preparing the document for publication.
                  
                     2 2 Samuel 2.26. Although biblical allusions and quotations are often
                            incomplete or slightly inaccurate, sources only have been provided throughout.
               
                     rational creatures, as covetuousness, Pride, envy, Hatred
                    & revenge, to be subjugated so far, that the Spirit of Love & a Pacific disposition
                    may Predominate. We have no doubt of the Possibility of this, but believe that were Individuals and
                    Nations actuated by the pure principle of Love, they would be willing to use their Efforts for the
                    promotion & encouragement of Peace on Earth & good will to men; that the occasions
                    of war may be removed and the blessings of Peace enjoyed.
            Now as it hath pleased the Almighty Superintendant of the universe to Illuminate the understandings
                    of many (which we mention with reverence and Gratitude) whereby they see in a clear point of view
                        [sic] the evils of war, and several Peace Societies have been recently formed
                    of divers respectable citizens of the United States, in order to unite in laboring that Peace
                    & Harmony may be preserved;—Therefore Fellow Citizens of this State, not only
                    such as believe that all wars are contrary to the Precepts of the Gospel, but also those who think
                    that offensive war only is wrong,3 we desire your attention may be turned to
                    this very Interesting Theme; and divesting ourselves of any Preposs[ess]ion to the contrary may
                    Judiciously consider whether it doth not behove us to make a proper use of the present time of
                    favor, wherein Prospects so animating, open with such conspicuity; and from a sincere desire that
                    the welfare & happiness of the human Race may be promoted, to institute a Peace Society in
                    this State, for purposes similar to those of others already organized. Can this be incompatible with
                    sound Policy?—
            Although those who engage in this good work, may meet with some opposition, yet those that are
                    willing to be Instrumental according to their capacities under divine 
                        Providence
                    , in diffusing a Pacific principle, & under a sense of duty, use their best
                    Efforts that Love, Peace, & Harmony may prevail amongst mankind,—we believe such
                    will recieve the reward of Peace in their own minds, and Participate of the Blessings granted to the
                    Peace makers.
            Of which the Meeting approves, & appoints Levi Munden, Willis McCoy, Samuel Lindley, Matthew
                    Coffin, Joseph Moore, Nathan Trueblood, Robert Dennis, James White, Benjamin Albertson, William
                    Hobbs, & Thomas Thomson to prepare a form of Constitution, for the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society & Produce to next meeting. On motion The meeting adjourns
                    untill the 2nd seventh day in next month at the 12th Hour at the Court House in the Town of 
                        Salem
                    , at which time & place all those who are friendly to the above institution are
                    Invited to attend.
            
               
                  3 The stand on defensive war was a point of conflict among members of
                        peace societies. 
                            Salem
                         followed the 
                            Massachusetts
                         society in its willingness to accept members who believed in defensive war. The 
                            New York
                         and 
                            London
                         societies excluded those who held this belief. Merle E. Curtis, The
                            American Peace Crusade, 1815–1860 (Durham, 1929), 11–12.
            
            
            The Secretary is directed to have the above Published in the 
                        Salem
                     Tocsin.4
            
            By order Benjn Albertson Secy
            
               
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) January the 9th 1819
            At a Meeting met agreeable to adjournment The Committee appointed at last meeting to prepare an Essay
                    of Constitution for the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society, Produced the following (To Wit) Constitution of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society,5 —
            We the subscribers in forming this Society, think proper to make the following concise declaration of
                    our motives & objects.
            Having been impressed by considering the manifold evils & tremendeous [sic]
                    calamities of Public War; we earnestly wish that men may be brought to view it in a just light,
                    clearly to see its sad influence, on the Political moral & religious of communities, and its
                    opposition to the design & spirit of the Gospel; and that the true dignity and Happiness of
                    a People result from Impartial Justice towards all Nations, and the Spirit & Virtues of
                    Peace.
            Various facts and considerations have conspired in exciting a hope, that a change may be effected in
                    public sentiment, and a more happy state of society introduced.
            We believe that a majority of the People in civilized countries, when free from party passions
                    & prejudices, have such an aversion to public Hostilities, that they would rejoice if any
                    plan could be devised which would both secure their rights and absolve them from the burthens
                    & sufferings of war.
            The late Treaty of Peace between Great Britain and the United States, has suggested the
                    Practicability of such a plan, and given us an admirable lesson on the subject.
            For this ray of Pacific light we are gratefull and hope it will be like "the shining light
                    which shineth more & more unto the perfect day."6 It is clear
                    that every popular custom must depend on public opinion, and it 
                  
                     4 The Tocsin was the first newspaper published in 
                                Salem
                             and the initial number was issued on March 17, 1818. The founders were Ebenezer
                            Patrick and Beebe Booth. The Tocsin was sold after four volumes, ran until
                            1826 under new management and a new name, and then was purchased by Patrick and renamed the
                                Tocsin. Warder W. Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                    Washington County
                                 Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1916), 383–87.
                  
                     5 The constitution is very closely modeled on that of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Peace Society which was published in the Friend of Peace, I,
                            iv, 35–37. The 
                                Salem
                             preamble has many passages identical with those of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             preamble and the articles differ from those of 
                                Massachusetts
                             only on a few points: several articles are altered by the Indiana society; an
                            article concerning life membership is omitted; Article 5 is new; whereas 
                                Massachusetts
                             specifies an annual meeting, 
                                Salem
                             calls for a meeting every three months.
                  
                     6 Proverbs 4.18.
               
                     appears from History that many customs, which were formerly
                    considered as honorable, usefull & even necessary, have since been abolished, as inhuman
                    & Barbarous, and are now regarded with detestation & Horror.
            The attention of the European [sic] Nations lately appears to be unusually excited
                    to the guilt and miseries of war; and with Joy we learn that Peace Societies are Established on the
                    other side of the atlantic, as well as in the United States,—a cooperation in different
                    countries is joyfully anticipated in this great work of promoting peace on earth, and good will
                    among men.
            We Intend that this Society shall be established on such principles as to embrace the friends of
                    Peace tho, they may differ in sentiment on the question, whether war be not in all cases Prohibited
                    by the Gospel, and may also differ in opinion on other subjects.
            We wish to promote the cause of peace by methods which all Christians must approve;—by
                    exhibiting with clearness the pacific nature of the Gospel, and by turning the attention of the
                    community to the nature, spirit, causes & effects of war,—we hope that by the
                    concurrence of the friends of Peace in all Nations, and by the gradual Illumination of the Christian
                    world, a Pacific spirit may be communicated to Governments;—And that in this way under
                    the divine Blessing, the occasions of war, and the belief of its necessity will be constantly
                    diminishing till it shall be regarded by all Christians with the same horror, with which we now look
                    back, on the exploded & barbarous customs of former ages.
            On these principles, and with these hopes we adopt the following articles.
            
               Article, 1st The name of this Society shall be the 
                            Salem
                         (Indiana) Peace Society.
               " 2nd The Government of this Society shall consist, of a President, Treasurer,
                        Recording Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, and six Trustees, who shall be annually Chosen,
                        Three of whom shall constitute a quorum.
               " 3rd The funds of this Society shall be under the direction of the officers, to be
                        employed for the diffusion of Light on the subject of war & in cultivating the
                        Principles & Spirit of Peace; The officers shall have Power to appoint an Executive
                        Committee and Counsellars [sic] to advise with the Corresponding Secretary
                        & to make regulations for the dispatch of business.
               Article 4th No book or tract shall be published without its being approved by a majority of
                        the members present at a Quarterly or annual Meeting.
               " 5th Each subscriber of one Dollar annually shall be a member.
               " 6th All donations to the Society shall be Recorded; and each member of the Society
                        may recieve one half his annual subscriptions in such books or tracts as the officers shall
                        approve, and at the lowest prices of the Society.
               
               " 7th The Society shall meet once in every three months and may be convened by order
                        of the President at other times, when the officers shall deem it necessary; and reports shall be
                        made to the Society by the Trustees & Treasurer annually on the 2nd Saturday of the
                        first month in each year; and in case of the absence of the President at any meeting of the
                        Society, the members present shall have power to choose another to officiate as President Pro.
                        Tempore.
               " 8th This Society will encourage the forming of similar societies, in other places
                        by the dispersion of tracts, by correspondences, and by other suitable means; they will also
                        encourage mutual aid and cooperation among all the friends of Peace of every denomination.
               Article 9th Any body of men ten or upwards in number, living too remote to attend our
                        Quarterly Meeting may be a branch of this by representing the state of theirs to this annually.
               " 10th No Change in the objects of the Society shall ever be made; but the articles
                        may be amended and new articles may be added as occasion shall require; provided that no
                        alteration be made except at their regular annual meeting, and by the consent of two thirds of
                        the members who may be then present.
            
            Signed on behalf of the committee By Benjn Albertson Clk
            Which after being repeatedly & deliberately Read was approved of, and the following Persons
                    subscribe their names as members thereof.
            
               Matthew Coffin
               Levi Munden
               David Denny
               Samuel Lindl[e]y
               Zachariah Nixon
               Jessee Stanley
               John Brassleton
               Joel 
                            Brown
                        
               
               John S Chawner
               James Trueblood Senr
               Micah Newby
               Henry Wilson
               William R Denny
               Joshua Trueblood
               Toms White
               William Hobbs
               William Trueblood
               Benoni Morris
               Joseph Moore
               John Cox
               Thomas Lindley Junr
               William Lindley Senor
               James Denny
               James R Higgins
               Caleb White
               James Coffin
               Robert Dennis
               Joshua Crow
               
               Jehosaphat Morris
               Nathan Trueblood
               Willis McCoy
               Benjamin Albertson
               William Hodgin
               Elisha Hobbs
               Aaron Morris
               Joshua Tatlock
               James White
               Ebenezer Patrick
               Jacob Cox
               Miles Tatlock
               Jonathan Lyon
               Elijah Rawley
               Beebee Booth
               John Arnold
               Thomas Saint
               Burr Bradley
               Aaron Cox
               Joseph Nixon
               Thomas Lindley L Creek7
               
            
            Who after being called together proceed to appoint, 
                  Beebee Booth, President;
                  Nathan Trueblood, Treasurer;
                  Benjamin Albertson, Recording Secretary;
                  & Burr Bradley, Corresponding Secretary;
                  —Matthew Coffin, David Denny, William Hobbs, Jonathan Lyon, Samuel Lindley,
                            Zachariah Nixon Trustees.
                  Ordered that the Treasurer Procure suitable Blank Books for the Recording Secretary
                            & for himself.
                Ordered that the Corresponding Secretary have this Meeting Minutes, published in the 
                        Salem
                     Tocsin together with two Hundred Copies of our Constitution printed in Hand Bills.
            The Meeting adjourns untill the 2nd Saturday in April Next at the 12th Hour at the Court House in the
                    Town of 
                        Salem
                    .
            Order,d that the Recording Secretary have Published the time of the setting of next Meeting in the 
                        Salem
                     Tocsin two weeks previous thereto.
            
               
                        Salem
                     the 30th of January 1819
            At a meeting of the officers of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society, ordered that the Recording Secretary give information to the
                    Corresponding Secretary that this meeting directs him to write to all the Peace Societies within his
                    knowledge as also any other societies of any kind which we deem friendly to our Institution, and
                    procure copies of all the numbers of the friends of peace over & above the first Eight
                    numbers, & also obtain any other Books or tracts or information otherwise usefull for us.
            This meeting adjourns untill the next Emergency.
            
               
                  7 "L Creek" probably refers to Lick Creek which was
                        approximately twenty miles from 
                            Salem
                        . Quakers from the Blue River and Lick Creek Monthly Meetings were closely
                        associated according to information in B.C. Hobbs, Autobiography of William
                        Hobbs (Indiana 
                            Quaker
                         Records, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1962), 8–11.
            
            
            
               
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) April 10th 1819
            The Society met agreeable to adjournment.
            Report says all orders passed at last meeting are complied with.
            A Code of By Laws being produced for this Society, were Read & approved by the members
                    present, (to Wit) Matthew Coffin, Levi Munden, David Denny, Samuel Lindley, William Hobbs, Joseph
                    Moore, Joel 
                        Brown
                    , James Trueblood Senr, Joshua Trueblood, Jehosaphat Morris, Nathan Trueblood, Benjamin
                    Albertson, Aaron Morris, Jonathan Lyon, Elijah Rawley, Beebee Boothe, Thomas Saint, Burr Bradley,
                    Joseph Nixon, James R Higgins, Caleb White, & Benjn Overman, which were ordered to be
                    Recorded & are as follows.
            By Laws of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society
            
               Article 1st Our meetings shall be held open for all who behave orderly to attend, though none
                        Except members shall be permitted to speak without leave of the meeting.
               2nd The President shall be the Speaker & may debate but have no vote, except when a
                        tie, in which case he shall give the casting vote; he shall call to order when decorum is not
                        observed, and shall sign all writings that go from the Society with one or the other Secretarys.
               3rd The Recording Secretary shall make entrys and keep Records of all business the Society
                        shall direct. The Corresponding Secretary shall keep Copies of all letters that he sends to
                        other societies, and file them together with all he recieves from them with the Recording
                        Secretary.
               4th The Trustees shall make moderate compensation to the secretaries for their trouble
                        & expences.
               5th When any person is about to speak he shall Rise on his feet and address the Speaker,
                        neither shall but one speak at a time, and no one shall speak more than thrice to one subject,
                        without leave from the meeting.
               6th When a motion is made & seconded it shall be put to vote, and a majority shall
                        decide it.
               7th The Hour appointed to meet at shall be strictly observed, at which time the President
                        shall take his seat and the Clerk proceed to business.
            
            On motion it was ordered that Levi Munden, William Hobbs, & Benjamin Albertson, be appointed
                    a committee to draft our motives & intentions as a Society & p[r]oduce to next
                    meeting.
            Ordered that the Secretary have our by Laws & the proceedings of the day published in the
                    Tocsin,—also the time of the setting of next meeting two weeks previous thereto.
            On motion the meeting adjourns untill the 2nd Saturday in July next at the 2 Hour in the afternoon,
                    at the Court House in the town of 
                        Salem
                    .
            
            
               
                        Salem
                     July 10th 1819
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society
            The President being absent William Hobbs was called to the Chair as President Pro. Tem.
            The Committee appointed last meeting produced a draft of our motives & objects as a Society
                    which was read approved ordered to be recorded & Published in the 
                        Salem
                     Tocsin (to Wit.)
            A solemn declaration of the members of the 
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society, containing an explication of their motives & objects
                    in forming this association.
            The Institution of Peace Societies being of recent date, we are apprehensive, that some of our fellow
                    Citizens, for want of more explicit information; may, from a cursory view of such an association
                    concieve it to be a Phenomenon; and being moved with fear (that intellectual tyrant, to which
                    mankind are too apt to be subservient) have brought this unpopular [topic?] before their own mental
                    tribunal, and precipitately given Judgment against it, without hearing the evidence; however we hope
                    they have the discretion not to adopt any measures discordant with the counsel of the wise doctor
                    Gamaliel to the Jewish Sanhedrim [sic], the purport of which was,— If
                    that counsel or work were of men it would come to nought (as had been the case in divers instances)
                    but if its origin was of the divine power, the might of man could not overthrow it; therefore he
                    advised, to let those men alone, lest perhaps they (that is the persecutors) should be found even
                    opposing omnipotence.8
            
            We deem it expedient to announce to the public, a succinct but un-equivical delineation of the
                    motives of our Institution; also the object we have in view, and the means we are engaged to use.
            We solemly [sic] declare, that in this case we are free from any private sinister
                    or selfish view; but being impressed with a deep conviction that there is a great deviation from the
                    spirit of Christianity, which is a spirit of mercy, peace and kind affection; and being sorrowfully
                    affected by the accumulated miseries & great desolations which war has spread over the
                    fairest, most fruitfull and enlightened regions of the earth; and at the same time encouraged by
                    many decisive proofs of the revival of Purer & more benevolent principles among Christian
                    nations, we have formed this association, with the solemn & deliberate purpose of
                    cooperating with the Philanthropists, of this and other Countries, in endeavoring to promote the
                    cause of peace & Charity; that war may be stripped of its false glory, and different
                    communities may be united in the bonds of amity & mutual good will. We are sensible that
                    this object is chiefly to be accomplished by a silent and gradual influence on the minds of men;
                    accordingly we intend to limit our operations to the circulation of usefull Treatises in which the
                    Pacific spirit of religion 
                  
                     8 Acts 5.34–39.
               
                     has been exhibited with clearness, & we hope with
                    success.—In using these means it becomes necessary for the Society to have some funds,
                    which are to be employed for the diffusion of light on the subject of war, and in the cultivating
                    the principles and spirit of peace, agreeably to the Constitution we have adopted.—On
                    this subject we belong to no sect, no party. As lovers of our Country, as friends of mankind with
                    the spirit of peace in our breasts and with a deep impression of the miseries of war, we are
                    solicitous that the Effusion of human blood by human hands may be prevented, and that men may be
                    recalled to the conviction that they are brethren.—On the same principles & for
                    the same benevolent purposes peace societies are established in several of the United States; also
                    several are formed in great Britain.— These societies with the many others9 which are in existence for pious & humane purposes, it is believed may be
                    auxiliary to each other, in promoting the cause of humanity, and in diffusing the principles of
                    love, peace and amity, so essential to the true happiness of mankind.—Among the members
                    of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Peace Society there are many respectable Characters, of which there are ninety six
                    ministers of the Gospel of different denominations, the Prince Galitzin of Russia, and Thomas 
                        Jefferson
                     of 
                        Virginia
                     (former President of the United States.)10 —Further we
                    are authorized to state, that several of the illustrious powers of Europe have united in a solemn
                    league, wherein they declare before "the universe their unwavering determination to adopt
                    for the only rule of their conduct, both in the administration of their respective states, &
                    in their political relation with every other Government, the precepts of Christianity, the precepts
                    of Justice, of Charity and Peace."11
            
            These facts, with others which are apparent, indicate that, through the interposition of divine 
                        Providence
                    , the influence of the Gospel of Peace is progressing amongst men in various stations,
                    & in different parts of the 
                  
                     9 Curtis discusses the peace movement as a "part of a general
                            humanitarian development" which found direction in the "general disgust
                            with the train of social woes which came with the wars." Organizations were formed
                            for temperance, antislavery, prison reform, the mentally ill, and the physically disabled.
                            See Curtis, The American Peace Crusade, 1815–1860, pp.
                            18–20, and references given there.
                  
                     10 Prince Alexander Galitzin of Russia became an honorary member of
                            the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Peace Society as the result of some correspondence with that society.
                            Correspondence between the society and the Prince and Emperor Alexander of Russia is printed
                            in the Friend of Peace, I, x, 24–27. Correspondence from Thomas 
                                Jefferson
                             is also printed, ibid., I, xi, 24–25.
                  
                     11 The quotation is probably taken from a newspaper account of the
                            formation of the Holy 
                                Alliance
                             which was signed in 1815 by the leaders of 
                                Austria
                            , Russia, and Prussia. The pertinent portion of the preamble of the Act of the
                            Holy 
                                Alliance
                             states: "They solemnly declare that the present Act has no other
                            object than to publish, in the face of the whole world, their fixed resolution, both in the
                            administration of their respective States, and in their political relations with every other
                            Government, to take for their sole guide the precepts of that Holy Religion, namely, the
                            precepts of Justice, Christian Charity and Peace, which, far from being applicable only to
                            private concerns must have an immediate influence upon the counsels of Princes, and guide
                            all their steps, as being the only means of consolidating human institutions and remedying
                            their imperfections." Walter T. Phillips, The Confederation of
                            Europe (
                                London
                            , 1914), 301. The preface was reprinted in the Friend of
                            Peace, I. x, 18, in late 1817 or early 1818.
               
                     world; and we are induced to hope, that, by the well directed
                    efforts of the friends of peace under the blessing of Heaven, a Change in public sentiment may be
                    effected, which shall become conspicuous in the moral conduct of Governments to the dereliction of
                    war & violence, and the establishment of peace on earth and good will to our fellow
                    Creatures.—All sanguinary customs, Hostile passions, violence, war & revenge, are
                    evidently incompatible with the precepts of the Messiah, who came not to destroy mens lives but to
                    save them12 —therefore we are solicitous that all who assume the
                    character of Christians, may by their conduct evince, that in meekness & love, they are true
                    followers of him, whom we acknowledge to be the author of our faith; and in particular that the
                    ministers of the Gospel of every religious denomination (whose influence with the members of the
                    community is so universally acknowledged) may through divine aid be Preachers of Righteousness, both
                    by precept & example, and ministers of peace by Jesus Christ; solemnly considering the
                    importance of their vocation, and remembering their responsibility, they may avoid that glaring
                    inconsistency of holding forth the design of the Gospel for the salvation of repenting sinners, and
                    yet encourage a spirit of war, diametrically opposite to the spirit of the Gospel, which is that of
                    love, peace and harmony.
            William Hobbs, President Pro. Tem. Benjn Albertson Recd. Secy
            The meeting adjourns untill the 2nd Saturday of October next at 2, o clock P.M. which the Secretary
                    is directed to have published in the 
                        Salem
                     Tocsin two weeks previous thereto.
            
               
                        Salem
                     October the 9th 1819
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society
            Reed by the hands of the Corresponding Secretary from the 
                        Massachusetts
                     & 
                        Warren County
                        Ohio
                     Peace Societys a form of memorial to Congress.18 David Denny
                    & Benjamin Albertson are appointed to obtain subscribers thereto & forward the same
                    to Congress or to Doer Canby14 of Lebanon.
            
               
                  12 Luke 9.56.
               
                  13 In the spring of 1819 the 
                            Massachusetts
                         Peace Society began circulating a petition in 
                            Boston
                         and vicinity to be sent as a memorial to Congress. The petition asked Congress to
                        abolish privateering which was considered a violation of Christian rights. There were many such
                        memorials sent to Congress in the next few years, including one from "certain citizens
                        of 
                            Ohio
                        " in late December, 1819. Presumably, the 
                            Ohio
                         memorial is here referred to. W. Freeman Galpin, Pioneering for
                        Peace (
                            Syracuse
                        , 1933), 31–32.
               
                  14 "Dr. Joseph Can by practiced medicine in 
                            Warren County
                         as early as 1810. He practiced at Lebanon for twenty years. His name occurs in five
                        different acts of the Legislature among the censors appointed for the examination of applicants
                        for license to practice medicine." In April, 1814, he is listed as a member of the
                        first Board of Directors for the Lebanon 
                            Miami
                         Banking Company. J. Morrow, The History of 
                        Warren County, Ohio
                     
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882), 466–68.
            
            
            Also recieved from the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Peace Society five numbers of the friends of Peace, 13, 14, 15, 16, & 17,
                    likewise their constitution & annual report accompanied by letters of correspondence
                    &c &c.
            Also from 
                        Warren
                        Ohio
                     Peace Society their annual report & constitution & letters of
                    correspondence &c &c.
            
               
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) October 22nd 1819
            At a meeting of the officers of the 
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society.
            Ordered that the Treasurer Purchase 50 copies of the 2nd 4 numbers of the friends of Peace, William
                    Hobbs & David Denny are appointed to distribute the same.
            Ordered that the Corresponding Secretary inform the 
                        Ohio
                     Peace Society that if they publish 9, 10, 11, & 12 of the Friend of Peace that
                    we agree to take 150 copys.
            William Hobbs & Mathew Coffin are appointed to prepare an annual report & produce to
                    next meeting of the Society.
            This meeting adjourns untill the next immergency [sic].
            
               
                        Salem
                     January the 8th 1820.
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society.
            The committee appointed produced an annual report (to Wit) First report of the Trustees of the 
                        Salem
                     (India) Peace Society made at their annual meeting the 8th of January 1820.
            It being expected of us to render some account at this time, of our proceedings since our
                    appointment, in respect to our exertions in the aplication of the means proposed by the Society, for
                    the advancing of the good cause for which we are associated and also some information of our
                    prospects; this duty we freely perform as far as is within the sphere of our capacity.—We
                    have attended to the important part of the service we have been entrusted with; but the funds of the
                    Society being small when compared with their object, much more cannot reasonably be expected than
                    evidence of fidelity in the use of such means as have been at our disposal, and to exhibit such
                    facts as may be adapted to excite more liberal Patronage & more powerfull
                    exertions.—We have purchased 50 copies of the 2nd 4 Numbers of the friend of Peace, which
                    have been distributed amongst the members of the Society, and the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and
                    the Supreme Judges of this State,15 to each a copy, and some have been sent into 
                        Kentucky
                    ; a number of copies of the constitution of our Society also a concise declaration of
                    our motives & object in thus associating have been published.—The expences 
                  
                     15 The governor was Jonathan 
                                Jennings
                            , first governor of the State of Indiana; Ratliff Boon was lieutenant governor;
                            the supreme judges were Jesse Holman, James 
                                Scott
                            , and Isaac 
                                Blackford
                            .
               
                     of these together with postage of letters and pamphlets
                    recieved by our Corresponding Secretary in behalf of the Society have taken considerable of the
                    money which was in fund, yet a small ballance [sic] remains in the hands of the
                    Treasurer.— Although we consider all that we have yet been able to effect, but a little
                    compared with what our brethren, the friends of peace have done in several others of the United
                    States, and also in Great Britain, yet we hope that none who devote their service to this precious
                    cause will lose their reward of inward peace.
            By accounts recieved from other peace societies, the prospect is very encouraging; those which have
                    been associated a considerable time, are still increasing, and new peace societies forming, one of
                    which has lately been formed in Raliegh [sic] 
                        North Carolina
                    , divers of the members whereof are said to be very respectable characters, also one
                    lately formed at Honey Creek [ ]16 County in this State.—Numerous
                    publications have been exhibited on both sides of the atlantic, adopted to the disseminating of the
                    principles of peace on Earth and good will to men; which there is reason to believe have much
                    attracted public attention.—In an extract from a letter of an Intelligent Writer17 appears the following remark— "The unreasonable and
                    unchristian custom of war, was perhaps never so generally a subject of consideration as at the
                    present time, and it should seem that Intelligent & accountable beings, have only to examine
                    the question fairly, to become the friends of peace.—["] In this view we may be
                    encouraged to hope that from the standard of strife & misery, not only Individuals but
                    Nations will flee, to rally under the Banner of good will and love.
            We believe there are many respectable citizens who have not yet taken an active part in this work
                    that are well wishers to the cause; and we trust, as the Illuminating influence of the Gospel of
                    Peace shall more generally spread and prevail amongst mankind, that the doubts which many have
                    entertained of success, will vanish in the bosom of evidence, and that they will see it in a clear
                    point of view, to be their duty to lend their aid toward the advancement of so good a
                    cause.—One Publication18 in opposition to the object of peace
                    societies has appeared; but the author had not the confidence to expose his proper name, and his
                    assertions were so erronius [sic] & false, and so evidently exhibited his
                    confusion, that we did not deem it worthy of a particular answer.— From accounts well
                    authenticated, it appears, that notwithstanding the opposition arising from the prejudices of
                    education & 
                  
                     16 The document has left space for information that was never added.
                            Presumably this is Honey Creek Township in 
                                Vigo County
                            . H. C. Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1891), 647. The Friend of Peace, II, vi, 39, reports the
                            formation of a peace society in 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana. Another society in 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana, called the Whitewater Indiana Peace Society, was reported in the Friend of Peace, II, vii, 37.
                  
                     17 Neither the writer nor the source of the quotation has been
                            identified.
                  
                     18 There were actually many criticisms in newspapers from 1817 to
                            1826, and several pamphlets had also been published against peace societies. See Galpin, Pioneering for Peace, 28–30. The particular publication
                            referred to here has not been determined. Possibly it was a local criticism in view of the
                            context.
               
                     custom the prospect is very animating.—We are
                    informed there are two peace societies in 
                        London
                    , with a considerable number of auxiliaries in different parts of the Kingdom, also one
                    in Scotland and that they have published many Thousands of tracts on the subject of universal peace,
                    some of which have been translated into the German language.—There are many peace
                    societies organized in the United States and yet increase.— To these may be added a
                    conference of the methodist reformed Church in the State of 
                        New York
                    , which has assumed the character of a peace society.19
            
            Bible societies which have for their object to place in the hands of the poor and the destitute the
                    Blessed instructions of the Gospel; we consider this to be conducive to the great end which we
                    propose, that of disseminating the principle of love and peace which the doctrines of the Gospel
                    inculcate.— Now let the friends of peace be encouraged to persevere in this good work;
                    for we believe that the spirit of the Gospel which is that of ["] peace on earth, good will
                    toward men,"20 by the blessing and kind providence of him who is the
                    infinite source of pure love (without whose aid the effects of men are ineffectual) will more
                    & more spread & prevail to the completion of those ancient Prophecies, "He
                    shall Judge among the Nations & shall rebuke many people; and they shall beat their swords
                    into Plough shares, and their spears into pruning Hooks; Nation shall not lift up sword against
                    Nation, neither shall they learn war any more," Isaiah II.4, Micah IV.3.
            We have no doubt of the accomplishment of this for the word of Jehovah is ever sure.
            Which was read approved and 500 Copies directed to be printed together with the constitution in form
                    of a Pamphlet. Doctor B. Bradley & William Hobbs are appointed to attend that service.
            The Treasurer produced a report which was satisfactory.
            The bye [sic] Laws being revised were approved and appear as follows21 —to Wit,—
            
               1st Our meetings shall be held open for all who behave orderly to attend, tho, none except
                        members shall be permitted to speak without leave of the meeting.
               2nd The President shall be Speaker & may debate but have no vote except when a tie, in
                        which case he shall give the casting vote, he shall call to order when decorum is not observed
                        & sign all writing going forth from our Quarterly or annual meetings with the recording
                        secretary and at the request of any one of the Trustees he shall call a meeting of the officers.
                            
                     
                        19 The declaration of the conference of the Methodist Reformed
                                Church is printed in the Friend of Peace, II, ii, 33–35. It
                                has not been examined by the editor.
                     
                        20 Luke 2.14.
                     
                        21 The revisions in the bylaws are minor and usually consist of
                                changes in wording. The major addition is a provision for a president pro tempore in the
                                seventh article.
                  
               
               
               3rd The Recording Secretary shall make entrys & keep records of all business the
                        Society may direct, the Corresponding Secretary shall keep copys of all letters sent by him to
                        other societies & keep a regular file of them with those he recieves, for the inspection
                        of the Trustees.
               4th The Trustees shall make moderate compensation to the secretaries for their trouble
                        & expence.
               5th When any person is about to speak he shall rise on his feet & address the Speaker;
                        neither shall but one speak at a time, & no one shall speak more than thrice to one
                        subject, without leave of the meeting.
               6th When a motion is made & seconded & a proper time allowed for debate it
                        shall be put to vote & a majority shall always carry.
               7th The hour appointed to meet shall be strictly observed, at which time the President if
                        there shall take his seat (& the Secretary proceed to business) but if not present the
                        Secretary shall open the meeting after which they shall choose a President Pro. tem.
            
            At an Election of Officers the following were chosen for the present or ensuing year (to Wit) Beebee
                    Boothe, President; Nathan Trueblood, Treasurer; Benjamin Albertson, Recording Secretary; Burr
                    Bradley, Corresponding Secretary; Mathew Coffin, David Denny, William Hobbs, Jonathan Lyon, Samuel
                    Lindley, & Zachariah Nixon Trustees.
            Previous to this meeting the following additional persons were recieved members of this Society (to
                    Wit) William Cox, William Reddick, Solomon 
                        Reddick
                    , Benjamin Overman, John Oneal, Isaac Hollinsworth, Samuel Price, & John Bray.
            
               
                        Salem
                     April the 8th 1820
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society.
            The Committee appointed to have 500 copies of the annual report & constitution printed report
                    its compiled with. The Trustees & other officers of the Society are directed to distribute
                    them among the members of the Society & els[e]where as they may deem proper.
            
               
                        Salem
                     July the 8th 1820
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     (Ina) Peace Society.
            Ordered that the Secretary have published in the Tocsin one month previous to next meeting, a request
                    for the members generally to attend at next meeting pay in their annual enstalments [sic], & recieve such Books & pamphlets as they are entitled too [sic].
            
               
                        Salem
                     October the 14th 1820
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     (Indiana) Peace Society
            Ordered that Samuel Lindley & Elisha Hobbs be appointed collectors for the Society &
                    that the Treasurer be directed to furnish them with a list of the members & the respective
                    sums due by each.
            
            
               
                        Salem
                     January the 13th 1821
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     (Ina) Peace Society.
            The President being absent David Denny was appointed President Pro. tem.
            The Treasurer produced an account which is as follows—(viz) The accounts with the
                    Treasurer stands nearly as they did last year there has been little or nothing recieved or paid out.
            The Trustees produced an annual report which was satisfactory.
            On motion it was ordered that the 4th & 5th articles of the constitution of this Society be
                    struck out & also that the following be inserted in the place & stead of the 7th
                    article (now the 5th) (to Wit) 5th There shall be an annual meeting of the Society on the 2nd
                    Saturday of May in ea[ch] year, at which time the trustees & Treasurer shall make report,
                    and the Society may be convened at other times by order of the President when the officers of the
                    Society may deem it necessary, and in case of the absence of the President at any of our meetings
                    the members present shall have power to choose one to act as President Pro. tem.22
            
            The next meeting (which is to be the annual meeting hereafter) to be held at 
                        Salem
                     the 2nd Saturday of next May at 2, o clock PM.
            The meeting adjourns accordin[g]ly.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana May the 12th 1821
            The President being absent, Samuel Lindley was called to the Chair to act as President Protem.
            The following were Elected officers for the ensuing year, (viz) David Denny, President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Doer Burr Bradley, Cor. Secretary; B. Albertson, Rec. Secretary;
                    James White, William Hobbs, Toms White, Nathan Trueblood, Zachariah Nixon, and James Trueblood
                    Trustees.
            On motion Toms White was appointed assistant to the Treasurer to collect what Money may be due and
                    also to collect what may be subscribed by free contribution & report.
            The Meeting adjourns untill next in course (viz) the 2nd Saturday of next May at 2 o clock PM.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana May the 10th 1822
            Report says collections of funds &c agreeable to appointment are of small amount.
            The Trustees produced an annual report which was read &c.
            
               
                  22 The action removes the necessity for approval of published materials by
                        members (No. 4) and drops the requirement of an annual one dollar subscription for membership
                        (No. 5). The meeting once every three months (No. 7) has been replaced by an annual meeting (new
                        No. 5). Subsequent entries indicate that a fifty cents tax replaced the subscription.
            
            
            John Cox is appointed to inform the Treasurer that its his duty to give a reason for not reporting to
                    this Meeting agreeable to constitution & also to report to next annual Meeting.
            The following officers are Elected for the ensuing year (to Wit) David Denny, President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Burr Bradley, Cor. Secretary; Benjn Albertson, Rec Secretary; Micah
                    Newby, William Hobbs, Toms White, Nathan Trueblood, Benoni Morris, & Zachariah Nixon
                    Trustees.
            The Meeting adjourns untill the 2nd Saturday of Next May at 2, o clock P.M.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana May 10th 1823
            At the annual Meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     la Peace Society
            The Treasurer reports the papers were not in his possession at last meeting & therefore no
                    funds in his hands at this time.
            The Trustees produced an annual report which was read & recieved.
            On motion it was recommended that the officers & other members of this Society as many as
                    feel a freedom so to do, to open free subscriptions to raise funds in order to publish &
                    circulate some tracts in possession of this Society & for other uses, and also that the
                    members of this Society be requested to pay into the hands of the Treasurer a Tax of Fifty cents
                    (ea) for the same purposes.
            Recieved & Read to satisfaction the 5th annual report of the 
                        Ohio
                     peace society accompanied by a letter from their Cor. Secretary.
            On motion William Hobbs & 
                        Henry
                     Wilson are a committee appointed to place in the 
                        Salem
                     Library one of the copys of the numbers of the friends of Peace & see that the
                    other copys are in the hands of the Corresponding Secretary & report to next meeting.
            The following members were Elected officers for the ensuing year—(To Wit) David Denny,
                    President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Benjn Albertson, Rec. Secretary; Burr Bradley, Cor. Secretary; Micah
                    Newby, William Hobbs, Toms White, Nathan Trueblood, Benoni Morris, & Joseph Moore Trustees.
            The meeting adjourns untill 2nd Saturday of next May at 2, o clock P.M.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana May 10th 1824
            At the annual Meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society.
            The President being absent Nathan Trueblood was called to the chair to act as President Pro. tern.
            The committee appointed to place in the 
                        Salem
                     Library one copy of the friend of Peace, report its not fully complied with that
                    committee is continued & to report to a future meeting of this Society.
            It appears by the Treasurers report that this Society is now behind in payt of demands about seven
                    Dollars, the members are still desired to pay  in the tax of
                    Fifty cents each agreeable to last years request to meet the present demands & for
                    publishing the Pamphlets as proposed at last annual Meeting.
            The Trustees produced an annual report which was satisfactory.
            The following officers were Elected for the ensuing year—(To Wit) David Denny, President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Benjn Albertson, Rec. Secretary; Burr Bradley, Cor. Secretary;
                    Willis McCoy, Micah Newby, William Hobbs, Toms White, Nathan Trueblood, & Joseph Moore
                    Trustees.
            The meeting adjourns untill the 2nd Saturday of next May 2, o clock P.M.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana May 14th 1825
            The annual meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Ina Peace Society not being general by reason of unfavorable weather.
            Therefore some members met in May 1826 & adjourned to the 15th July 2, o'clock P.M.
                    in order that notice might be given of the annual on that day.
            
               
                        Salem
                     Indiana July 15th 1826
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society.
            The following officers were Elected for the present year (Namely) David Denny, President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Benjn Albertson, Rec. Secretary; Burr Bradley, Cor. [Secretary];23 Micah Newby, William Hobbs, Toms White, Nathan Trueblood, Joseph Moore,
                    & Benoni Morris Trustees.
            Ordered that every member paying in one Dollar annually shall be entitled to four numbers of the
                    friend of Peace, the amount of money or Books obtained thereby over & above 4 numbers to
                    belong to the Society for distribution. William Hobbs is appointed to recieve subscriptions of
                    s[ai]d money.
            A meeting of the officers ordered 1st monday in augt.
            The general meeting adjourns to the 2nd Saturday of may next at 2, o'clock PM.
            
                    Appendix
                
            The four annual reports of the 
                        Salem
                     Peace Society which follow were received after the preceding document was set in type;
                    therefore, they have been added in the form of an appendix. Editing has been done from xerox 
                  
                     28 The document has this list in column and has under "Rec.
                            Secretary" what appears to be "do" for
                        "ditto."
               
                     copies of the handwritten documents, which are in the
                        collection1 of the 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. They originally belonged to C. M. Hobbs of 
                        Plainfield
                    , Indiana, and were made available for publication by Miss Lulie Davis, Secretary of the
                    Society.
            Essentially the editorial practices used for the minutes have been maintained with these reports.
                    Differences necessitated by distinctive changes in the writing style are noted for the individual
                    reports. Although the spelling in the first and last reports printed here is poor and inconsistent,
                    all of the reports have been reproduced verbatim. When there is a question regarding the
                    transcription of a word, a bracketed question mark has been inserted. The headings for the reports
                    in all cases are located on an outer fold; they have been positioned initially here for the
                    convenience of the reader.
            2nd Annual Report2
            
            The Second Anuel report of the trustees of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana peace Society
            The funds of the Society has not enabled your committee to make any publications the pas year tho we
                    have reason to believe the reason of the delinquency of Subscribers is oweing to the scarcity of
                    money and not to a disposition in them to desert so noble a cause as that of peace on earth and good
                    will to man this principle we believe is gaining ground among us & by accounts received from
                    other peace Society it is spreading fast both in Europe and America there has been Many tracks
                    distributed [?] in England and a daily increase of members to the Society in 
                        London
                     and Several new ones formed & by the last report of the Masachusetz peace
                    Society it appears they have increased considerably in the course of last year as well as Road
                    Island & 
                        New York
                     & since last year there has been a respectable Society formed in 
                        Wain County
                     in this state which make three now in our state, we hope therefore under these
                    encouriaging prospects that we Shall still press forward against all the oposition that may be
                    raised through prejudice and long custom let us recollect that our cause is the principle of the
                    Gospel and will stand byond the grave
            I propose that the fourth & 5th articles of the constitution be araced[?] instead of the
                    Seventh article adopt as follows.
            There shall be one anuel Meeting of the society on the 2nd Saturday of May in each year at which time
                    the trustees & treasurer shall make report 
                  
                     1 Miss Lulie Davis reports that the following additional items
                            regarding the 
                                Salem
                             Peace Society are in the collection: an issue of the Tocsin
                            containing notice of the first public meeting; one page regarding the December, 1818,
                            meeting; the declaration of the society from July, 1819; the printed constitution; the first
                            annual report; data from meetings in May, 1822, December, 1829, and April, 1830; several
                            miscellaneous letters; and newspaper clippings from 1912 and 1921 about the society.
                  
                     2 This report is referred to in the entry for January 13, 1821, on
                            page 316. The writer's capitalization is clear although not regular, and no changes
                            have been made. There has been no attempt to introduce punctuation other than the few
                            original marks; but spaces have been left, where it seemed advisable, to increase
                            readability.
               
                     to[?] and they may be convened[?] at other times by order of
                    the president when the officers of the Society may deem it necesary & in case of the absence
                    of the president at any of our Meeting the members present shall have power to chose one to act as
                    president protempore
            4 annual report of the S. I. P. S. made the 10th of 5th mo. (May) 18238
            
            The fourth annual report of the 
                        Salem
                     Inda P. S.
            The Trustees are aware of the trust which this Society have reposed in them, that by the Constitution
                    they are bound to make annual reports to this meeting.
            Although not much can be said to have been done the past year for want of sufficient funds, yet we
                    hope & believe that by the circulation of the numbers of the friend of peace & some
                    other tracts in our Possession as also by the examplary conduct & conversation of some of
                    the members of this Society, that the prejudice formerly existing in the minds of the opponents to
                    this Society have been removed or very much diminished, which evinces a growth in the good cause of
                    peace
            Therefore for the farther information & encouragement to the members of this Society we
                    Recommend them to the Seventh annual report of the M.P.S.
            We would also recommend to this meeting to consider the propriety of laying a small Tax on the
                    members in order to enable the officers the ensuing year to publish some valuable tracts now in
                    their Possession to distribute amongst the members circulation
            Which we submit to the meeting.
            5th Annual report of the S. Ia P. Society May 8th 18244
            
            Agreeable to the Constitution of this Society the present annual Meeting will consequently expect
                    some report from the Trustees.
            We regret that but little have been done the past year by this Society, owing in part to a deficiency
                    of funds in this time of pressure yet we have a lively hope, grounded on information from annual
                    reports recieved from Peace Societies in other states that the cause is gaining ground &
                    that several new Peace institutions have recently been formed, also that Pacific principles gain
                    ground in some parts of Europe, and since the formation of this Society we have cause to believe the
                    minds of many (in the vicinity of this place) have been wholly changed in favor of Pacific
                    principles.
            
               
                  3 This report is referred to on page 317. The handwriting appears to be
                        identical to that of the minutes in this report and in the fifth annual report which follows.
               
                  4 This report is referred to on page 318. The discrepancy in the date is
                        unexplained.
            
            
            The committee entrusted with the publication of a Pamphlet as directed by last annual meeting are
                    sorry to report that a part of the matter being lost or mislaid have prevented it from going to the
                    press, which this committee promises to publish agreeable to former instructions when the mislaid
                    matter can be found.
            It appears by the last report from the 
                        London
                     Peace Society, that in all since their commencement they have Published 269,250 tracts
                    & the sales & distributions of the preceding year had amounted to,
                    20,410,—and by the last annual report from Mts Pc Sy their sales & distributions
                    of the friend of Peace & other tracts amounted to 12,854, copies, which we hope will be
                    matter of some encouragement to our members—desiring they may be stirred up to diligence
                    & Punctuality in espousing such a cause, which will enable this committee at a future time
                    to make a more respectable & engaging report
            Report of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society5
            
            The Anuel report of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society made May the 12th 1827
            At the ushering in of the Gospel Peace on Earth and good will to men was proclaimed and why Should
                    any professing Christianity be under the influence of the Spirrit of war. Seeing it is entirely
                    opposed to the Spirrit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, but the influence of Education and popular
                    oppinion has a powerfull tendency to blind the eyes of men to their own interest, thus we see men
                    pleading that the only way to preserve peace is to prepare for war and attaching the most honor to
                    him who performs the greatest exploits in sheding his brothers blood.
            And in order to correct Publick oppinion on this Subject by the defusing of Christian Sentiments and
                    inviting all to come under the Influence of the Gospel of peace was the object of the first
                    formation of Peace Societyes & altho the means which has been in our possession ever since
                    our formation as a Society has been so limited that we have done but little for the advancment of
                    the great cause in which we are engaged.
            We have the present year purchased one hundred coppys of the numbers of the friend of peace for
                    distribution. This may seem but little tho we believe it will not be without its use
            We are informed by the last anuel report of the Masachusetts peace Society that they had destributed
                    dureing the last year ten Thousand three hundred and twenty Seven tracts. And by the Same report it
                    appears there are more than fifty peace Societys in the United States and new ones 
                  
                     5 Although this report extends beyond the duration of the minutes, it
                            seemed worthy of publication here as an indication of the continued existence of the 
                                Salem
                             society and of the society's interest in the general peace movement.
                            It would be the eighth year of the society. Punctuation has been reproduced with no
                            additions or changes, but spaces have been introduced to increase readability.
                            Capitalization of "c" has been according to modern usage.
               
                     still forming. Severall in the 
                        New England
                     States and one in orange County N. Carolina we have also flatly beared of a peace
                    Society formed in 
                        Owen County
                     in this state which proposes to become auxilery to ours. It also appears by the tenth
                    Anuel report of the 
                        London
                     peace Society that they are doing much for the advancment of the cause, they have forty
                    nine auxileries. and dureing the last year had destributed 31750 tracts, there is also a peace
                    Society in Ireland called the Hibernion peace Society Several have also been formed in Noviscotia
                    & in Canaday there is also a society in France called the Society of Christian Morals
                    enbracing several objects one of which is the abolition of war.
            Thus we see that with in twelve years more than one hundred peace Societyes have been formed in Urope
                    & America which are doing much in almost every country where the Christian Religion has been
                    embraced. & there can be no doubt but as the dictates of Christianity is attended too it
                    will intirely erradicate the Spirrit of war.
            We may also observe with Satisfaction the Manumition Society of N Carolina is spreading fast, at
                    their General association in March last there appeared representatives from more than forty branches
                    making in all more than two thousand members some of which are of the first order of tallants in the
                    state. If the influence of the Gospel when given way too does open the eyes of men who have been
                    blinded by education & Interest to see the unjustness of holding their fellow beings in
                    Slavary why not believe that peace Societies may also by divine aid be mad useful in opening the
                    eyes of mankind to see the inconsistency of Christians encouriaging the Spirrit of war which is so
                    disolating not only to the morrals but the lives and hapiness of each other.
            We would therefore invite all the members of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana peace Society to more deligunce in the cause in which they are engaged
                    remembering that we and all we possess are at the desposal of the divine Master let us then be
                    willing to contribute a portion of what he has given us to his Service
            At a meeting of the 
                        Salem
                     Indiana Peace Society held the 12th of may 1827
            The trustees of the Society Produced a Satisfactory report which was ordered to be published
            The following officers were elected for the ensuing year David Denney, President; 
                        Henry
                     Wilson, Treasurer; Benjamin Alberson, R Secretary; Burr Bradley, Cor Secretary; Micah
                    Newby, Wm Hobbs, Nathan Trublood, Toms White, Zachariah Nixon, John Cox Trustees
         
         
         
            Memorial Tribute to R. Carlyle Buley∗
            
            R. Carlyle Buley, son of David 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Nora
                     Keithley Buley, was born at 
                        Georgetown
                     (
                        Floyd County
                    ), Indiana, on July 8, 1893. He attended high school in 
                        Vincennes
                     and in 1910 entered Indiana University from which he received the bachelor's
                    degree in 1914 and the master's in history in 1916. Teaching at 
                        Muncie
                     High School and service in the United States Army was followed by four years as head of
                    the department of history and assistant principal of the high school at 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . Upon receipt of the Ph.D. degree in history from the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1925, he was appointed instructor of history at Indiana University. He became
                    professor in 1945 and since 1964 had been professor emeritus. His death on April 25, 1968, ended a
                    connection with and deep devotion to his alma mater that extended over more than a half century.
            Professor Buley's commitment to the history and heritage of Indiana, the Midwest, and the
                    United States was intense, abiding, and well revealed in his research and writing, his teaching, and
                    the countless hours he devoted to his students. From eight to five (except for the brief period when
                    he ate lunch in his office) his door was literally open to any student or other person who wished to
                    talk seriously, chit-chat, or swap yarns and stories. He was never too busy with his own work to
                    confer with, advise, and instruct others. This spirit of helpfulness and his effectiveness in the
                    classroom were partially recognized by his being awarded the 
                        Brown
                     Derby, given to the most popular professor on campus, and by a dinner sponsored by
                    former students prior to his retirement.
            Though primarily a teacher of survey and post-Civil War United States history, Professor
                    Buley's chief research and writing interests were the pre- 1840 Old Northwest and business
                    history… …. Professor Buley was not content just to do the research and
                    writing; he played a large part in designing many of his books. The end products attest not only his
                    knowledge of this art but also his love of the aesthetic…. his contributions to
                    scholarship were recognized by Alfred A. Knopf and Newberry Library fellowships and by an honorary
                    Doctor of Literature from Coe College.
            Through numerous articles and book reviews in the major historical and other journals as well as by
                    talks and speeches to assemblages of lawyers, doctors, insurance executives, historians, high school
                    and college students, and politically oriented groups, Professor Buley brought to his listeners a
                    keen enjoyment in and understanding of the past. And while writing and talking history he did not
                    neglect the materials of history. His 
                  
                     ∗ This memorial tribute to Professor R. Carlyle Buley,
                            prepared by a committee composed of Professors of History Leo F. Solt, Donald F. Carmony,
                            and Chase C. Mooney, was approved by the Faculty Council of Indiana University on October 1,
                            1968. A few changes in editorial style have been made for publication. The final paragraph
                            of the resolution has been omitted here; portions of the third paragraph have been deleted
                            in lieu of the bibliography which follows. A tribute to Dr. Buley upon his retirement from
                            active service was published in the Indiana Magazine of History, LX, No. 4
                            (December, 1964), 353–54.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. R. CARLYLE BULEY AT WORK IN THE ELI LILLY AND COMPANY ARCHIVES, 1964. Courtesy Eli Lilly
                            and Company
               
                     efforts—quiet and unknown to many—were
                    primarily responsible for, or instrumental in, bringing many newspaper files, manuscript
                    collections, and other items to Indiana University. Among these are the Oakleaf 
                        Lincoln
                     Collection, the 
                        Lafayette
                    -
                        Washington
                     American Revolution manuscripts, and the originals of the drawings made by Basil Hall
                    when he visited the United States.
            Professor Buley took as great pride in his home and grounds as he did in winnowing historical facts
                    from the mass of evidence. There he and his wife, Evelyn Barnett Buley, served as gracious hosts,
                    and there the azaleas, rhododendrons, stray or wounded animals and birds, or individuals
                    "down on their luck" received expert attention and a helping hand. A man of strong
                    convictions and deep compassion, Professor Buley was Hoosier and American to the core. He wanted
                    others to be the same but recognized their right and privilege to conform to their own versions of
                    these types.
            BOOKS AND PRINCIPAL ARTICLES BY R. CARLYLE BULEY∗
            
            BOOKS
            
               
                  The Midwest Pioneer: His 
                                Ills
                            , Cures, & Doctors, co-authored with Madge E. Pickard (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1945).
               
                  The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950). Dr. Buley received the Pulitzer Prize in history in 1951 for these two
                        volumes, published by the Indiana Historical Society.
               
                  The American Life Convention, 1906–1952: A Study in the History of
                            Life Insurance (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1953). Dr. Buley received the Elizur Wright award for this volume.
               
                  The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, 1859-1959 (
                            New York
                        , 1959).
               
                  The Romantic Appeal of the New West, 1815-1840 (
                            Detroit
                        , 1961). Paperbound booklet. 
                            Cass
                         Lecture for 1960.
               
                  The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, 1859-1964 (2
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1968).
            
            Although the volumes which follow do not bear Dr. Buley's name, he had much to do with their
                    publication. The first, presented as a tribute to his mentor and friend, was prepared by Dr. Buley
                    for publication from writings left by the author. The second profited substantially from both his
                    scholarship and his revision of it.
            
               Logan Esarey, The Indiana Home (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1943). Republished with pictures by Franklin Booth and Bruce Rogers, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1953.
               Roscoe Collins 
                            Clark
                        , Three Score Years and Ten: A Narrative of the First Seventy Years of
                            Eli Lilly and Company, 1876–1946 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1946).
            
            
               
                  ∗ This bibliography, prepared by the editor, gives a complete
                        listing of books but not articles. It does, however, include all of Dr. Buley's known
                        scholarly articles which appeared in historical journals or series. He, of course, also
                        contributed a number of book reviews to the 
                     Mississippi Valley
                            Historical Review, the Indiana Magazine of History, and other historical
                    journals.
            
            
            PRINCIPAL ARTICLES
            
               "The Campaign of 1888 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, X, No. 2 (June, 1914), 30–53.
               "Indiana in the Mexican War," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XV, No. 3 (September, 1919), 260–92; XV, No.
                        4 (December, 1919), 293–326; XVI, No. 1 (March, 1920),
                        46–68.
               "The Political Balance in the Old Northwest, 1820–1860," Studies in American History Inscribed to James Albert Woodburn (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1926), 405–55.
               "Pioneer Health and Medical Practices in the Old Northwest Prior to 1840,"
                            
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XX, No. 4 (March, 1934), 497-520.
               "The Pioneer Middle West in Two Depressions," Indiana History
                            Bulletin, XIII, No. 2 (February, 1936), 77–91.
               "Glimpses of Pioneer Mid-West Social and Cultural History," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXIII, No. 4 (March, 1937), 481–510.
               "Logan Esarey, Hoosier," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII, No. 4 (December, 1942), 337-81.
               "The Middle West—It's Heritage and It's Role,"
                            
                     
                                Wabash
                             Bulletin, XLI, No. 4 (December, 1943), 11–14,
                        19–22.
               "Water (?) Witching Can Be Fun," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LVI, No. 1 (March, 1960), 65–77.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Charlie Halleck: A Political Biography. By Henry Z. Scheele. Foreword by Dwight
                    D. Eisenhower. Introduction by Everett McKinley Dirksen. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1966. Pp. 287. Notes, appendices, index. $6.00.)
            The author conducts the reader through the political career of Charlie Halleck in a manner that is
                    satisfying in some respects, but less so in others. He is a lively and enlightening guide when
                    narrating the personal fortunes of his subject. Halleck's rapid rise to his
                    party's second highest office in the House as majority leader in 1947, his nomination of
                    Eisenhower in 1956, and his attainment of the top Republican post in the House of Representatives in
                    1959 by replacing Minority Leader Joe 
                        Martin
                     are well related. So also is the account of the reversal of his fortunes in 1965 when
                    defeated by Gerald Ford of 
                        Michigan
                     in a vigorous bid to continue as Republican House leader. Thus the reader shares in the
                    triumphs of the Indiana congressman and in his disappointment at not reaching either of his most
                    coveted goals of speaker of the House and vice president.
            The author is less successful when he leaves personal, narrative history. The domestic social and
                    economic environment and the foreign relations within which Halleck's career operated are
                    inadequately outlined, even for a "political biography." Emphasis is sometimes too
                    narrow; for example, President Eisenhower's campaign in 1956 is covered, but his
                    party's failure to capture Congress (so vital to one in Halleck's position) is
                    scarcely mentioned. The most serious professional fault, however, is apparent from an examination of
                    the sources used. Lapses include ignoring the public and private papers of leaders of the period and
                    making scant use of congressional and other governmental records. The results are some unusual
                    footnotes (e.g. the 
                        Valparaiso
                    
                    Vidette-Messenger is cited for a key congressional vote on page 110, the Korea Times for Republican threats to impeach President Truman on page 131, and a
                    popular college textbook for the complex Greek situation in 1947 on page 116.)
            But what of the Charlie Halleck which emerges from this study? Achievements on the negative side
                    included revitalizing the Republican-Southern Democratic coalition to an efficiency of 91 per cent,
                    receiving a career rating of 86 per cent from the very conservative Americans for Constitutional
                    Action, displaying his legislative expertness by such maneuvers as killing the 1956 aid-to-education
                    bill by promoting the Powell Amendment that would make it unacceptable to the southern states, and
                    successfully serving the opposition an "assortment of fast curves and sharp-breaking
                    sliders" (p. 195). These probably accounted for much of his contemporary popularity in the
                    Indiana Second Congressional District and in conservative circles throughout the country.
            However, the record included more of the positive than Halleck's many critics have usually
                    noted. He supported the civil rights acts. With a fellow 
                    Republican as President from 1953-1961, he labored for extension of reciprocal trade agreements, the
                    St. 
                        Lawrence
                     Seaway project, public housing, and foreign aid. Most of these measures he had
                    previously opposed, as the right wing of the Indiana party hotly reminded him.
            It is not intended to suggest that Representative Halleck has been a hidden liberal. It is probably
                    nearer the truth to say that his role has been more that of a professional politician than of a
                    conservative ideologue. Judging from his defense of the profession of politics, he might not regard
                    that judgment as a harsh one.
            
                    University of South Dakota
                
            Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               Goodly Heritage: One Hundred Fifty Years of Craft Freemasonry in Indiana. By
                    Dwight L. Smith. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Grand Lodge of F. & A.M. of Indiana, 1968. Pp. 535. Illustrations,
                    appendices, source materials, index. $10.00.)
            
               Goodly Heritage offers an informative, interesting, and significant history of
                    Masonry in Indiana. It is a worthy and permanent contribution to the sesquicentennial of the
                    founding of the Grand Lodge of Indiana at 
                        Madison
                     early in 1818, the observance of which has continued during 1968. Although the major
                    attention is devoted to the beginning or lower orders of Masonry for men—commonly called
                    Craft Masonry, consideration is also given to other orders for men as well as special orders for
                    women and youth. Comprehensive in scope, the book includes information concerning early local
                    lodges, establishment of the Grand Lodge, ups and downs of membership, and the anti-Masonic movement
                    as well as such topics as Masonic charity, ethics, ritual, philosophy, and membership requirements.
                    So far as chronology is concerned, the main focus is on the beginnings and then the development of
                    Masonry during the initial half of the nineteenth century.
            This volume contributes useful information and interesting perspectives about the anti-Masonic
                    crusade which reached its peak during the late 1820's and the 1830's. It
                    definitely supports a commonly held view that the political impact of anti-Masonry was modest among
                    Hoosiers, but it plows some new ground in its vivid account of the near demise of the Grand Lodge of
                    Indiana during the early 1830's. Dr. David G. Mitchell, of Corydon, apparently the major
                    anti-Masonic leader in the state, is frankly described as an ex-Mason who had been expelled for
                    drunkenness and other causes. Despite the anti-Masonic crusade, five of Indiana's first
                    eight governors were Masons: Jonathan 
                        Jennings
                    , James B. Ray, Noah 
                        Noble
                    , David Wallace, and James Whitcomb. Moreover, these executives served for approximately
                    twenty-seven of the thirty-two years from 1816 to 1848.
            Smith is to be commended for his substantial research and thoughtful evaluations. He has made much
                    use of Indiana Masonic records, especially those of the Grand Lodge and local lodges. But Smith has
                    also used an  impressive array of books, articles, and
                    miscellaneous sources concerning Indiana history at large. Confidence in the general reliability of
                    this volume is augmented by the author's obvious effort to "tell it as it
                    was"—even when the truth leaves blots or blemishes on Masons or Masonry. Thus,
                    no sanctimonious quibbling is made about the fact that the very first Grand Master of the Grand
                    Lodge of Indiana crossed over into 
                        Illinois
                     and engaged in a duel while serving as Grand Master; that official investigations by
                    the Grand Lodge resulted in charges of irregularities in the accounts of two Grand Treasurers; and
                    the significant, and most embarrassing, involvement of Masonry in the Ku Klux Klan of the
                    1920's. On the other hand, the role played by Masons in the development of state government
                    in pioneer days and their substantial contributions to the defense of the United States are
                    convincingly demonstrated. In addition, Smith conveys the inner spirit of Masonry in a thoughtful
                    and persuasive manner. Although presumably written principally for the edification of Masonic
                    brethren, Goodly Heritage is an extremely informative volume for non-Masons as
                    well. At least, this reviewer, himself not a Mason, found it so.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The Decline of the Progressive Movement in 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1890-1920. By Herbert F. Margulies. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1968. Pp. ix, 310. Notes, select bibliography, index. $5.95.)
            Here is an excellent addition to the still regrettably small amount of literature on the progressive
                    movement at the state level. It takes its place with George Mowry's The 
                            California
                         Progressives and H. Landon Warner's Progressivism in 
                            Ohio
                        
                as model studies. Margulies has been thorough in his research and succinct in
                    describing the results, never content to take what the reformers had to say about themselves at face
                    value. The book is consequently more authoritative than the previous study with which it invites
                    comparison, Robert S. Maxwell's LaFollette and the Rise of the Progressives in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               .
            Margulies' theme is decline, with particular emphasis upon the reasons for it. This erosion
                    in progressive fortunes he dates from the 1906 primaries. Three new ideas emerge in his exposition.
                    First is the debilitating effect on the reformers of constant conflict and political fragmentation
                    within the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Republican party. The abrasive, highly incendiary character of Robert M. LaFollette and
                    his followers, who preached principle above personality, but who did not hesitate to attack their
                    opponents personally, made the progressive movement one of turmoil. Programs closest to their
                    philosophy only helped. The direct primary, for example, although it democratized the nomination
                    process, became the means by which their "stalwart" opponents could disunite the
                    progressive forces. This internal rivalry encouraged divided loyalty in the leaders. Men like John
                    O. Davidson and Francis E. McGovem  looked to their own personal
                    opportunity and cultivated bases of support independent of LaFollette when they might have
                    campaigned unilaterally.
            Second, the author insists that the 
                        Wisconsin
                     progressive movement effectively ran its course before America's entrance into
                    World War I. The stalwarts managed to elect their resourceful leader Emanuel L. Philipp as governor
                    in 1914, introducing a period of consolidation. This change suggests to Margulies that the character
                    of a resurgent reform movement after the war could have been different.
            Indeed, he concludes that the "new progressivism" beginning in 1919-1920, commonly
                    assumed to be a continuation of the old style activity, was in fact distinctly different. The war
                    had shattered the reform movement. Zealous patriots concerned with national honor attacked opponents
                    of war like 
                        Wisconsin
                     German-Americans, the Social Democratic party, and, of course, Senator LaFollette
                    himself. Sensitivity over patriotism encouraged a different alignment, to which new elements like
                    the Nonpartisan League, the State Federation of Labor, and the railroad brotherhoods, disenchanted
                    with economic conditions created by the war, were attracted. LaFollette could easily assume
                    leadership of this new coalition, campaigning on issues which, like the high cost of living, civil
                    liberties, and isolationism, were all born of the war and bore only an insignificant relationship to
                    those of the prewar progressive era.
            At the outset, Margulies modestly, but forcefully, stresses that he cannot, and will not, make
                    national generalizations about progressivism based on the experience of just one state. Whether
                    later synthesizers rate 
                        Wisconsin
                     as typical or not, this study will be indispensable to them. 
                        Wisconsin
                     progressivism now has a monograph that matches the movement's reputation.
            
                    Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         University
                
            Neil Thorburn
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         Municipal Finance: A Political and Economic Analysis. By Glenn W. Fisher and
                    Robert P. Fairbanks. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1968. Pp. viii, 242. Notes, tables, figures, appendices, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         Municipal Finance describes and evaluates and is a comprehensive
                    quantification of taxation, borrowing, and expenditures of forty-one municipalities within and
                    outside the 
                        Chicago
                     SMSA. Emphasis is placed on general description of municipalities, property tax and
                    related problems, the magnitude of expenditures and indebtedness of respective municipalities, and
                    the complex nature of municipality decision making processes. Comparative per capita data is
                    presented on numerous points and is narrated in a concise, easy to read manner. A quantitative and
                    qualitative description of the communities and financial constraints imposed by law, tradition, or
                    practical politics is equally thorough, indicative of a highly developed insight on the part of the
                    authors, and indeed presented for the reader in an interesting manner.
            The widely diverse environment of municipalities, the complex array of real or assumed constraints on
                    municipal finance and rapidly changing needs  of communities
                    seemingly (but understandably) left the authors a bit frustrated in their desire to analyze 
                        Illinois
                     municipal finance and recommend solutions or specific courses of action. Analysis
                    beyond such broad concepts as "decisions which produce 'proper' levels of
                    service and reasonable distribution of cost" (p. 197) apparently became increasingly
                    difficult. For somewhat the same reasons, the authors apparently found it difficult to associate
                    "good" or "poor" municipal finance with "good"
                    or "poor" municipality services and environments. This indecisive treatment of
                    how-to-do-it solutions is not necessarily a criticism of the book: it doubtless reflects the
                    complexity and diversity of municipal finance problems. Responsible persons in other states could
                    benefit from a comparable inquiry.
            Complexities notwithstanding, the reader of 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Municipal Finance will yearn for more evidence that the authors fully applied
                    their judgments on such questions as "Is 'sound' municipal finance really
                    important to an area?" "How might bond issues be made more attractive?"
                    "How have some 
                        Illinois
                     municipalities achieved an improved financial structure?"
            This timely study and report on 
                        Illinois
                     municipal finance should be considered required reading for students of the subject,
                    for responsible municipal and higher level government officials, and for responsible minded lay
                    citizens whose democratic influence in large measure will determine "municipal
                    finance" in respective communities.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Lawrence E. Kreider
         
         
            
               Black Swamp Farm. By Howard E. Good. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1967. Pp. ix, 304. Illustrations. $7.00.)
            Conscientiously, in his wish to make this a complete album of the farming area around the
                        Maumee Valley in northwestern 
                  Ohio, Howard
                Good starts back in the
                    geologic longago, the ice age, the glaciers, the forming of a soil that was no longer a swamp when
                    he lived there as a farm boy. This makes for a slow start, and Good's style is not
                    essentially fast moving anyway; but once this is accomplished (end of Chapter 1) he is ready to take
                    on the pioneer settlers and their forest-clearing and dangers.
            From then on the Black Swamp area becomes a distinct and engaging personality in this readable
                    genealogy. Good's talent lies less in sparkling humor and story telling than in minute,
                    almost loving observation and honest reporting. The reader with a farm background or one who
                    cherishes the land will find many occasions when he would like to lean forward and clap an
                    appreciative hand on Good's shoulder, as a farmer would do in face-to-face conversation. To
                    mention a few: the boots that irritatingly pulled the socks down into themselves; the scratchy new
                    unbleached towels; filling the straw- tick; trading a fodder chopper for a parlor organ; heavy farm
                    menus that produced no fat farmers; games the school boys played; old-fashioned names for parents;
                    superstitions farmers believed in; colloquialisms they spoke in;  how the land restores itself when left alone to do so. Also one appreciates the mention of early
                    farm practices: adding crushed limestone to the gummy soil; feeding skimmed milk to pigs and calves;
                    warming the bits before bridling the horses.
            Events in which the Good boy participated most are fully told: wheat threshing, the county fair,
                    spring housecleaning, butchering. The Chautauqua is skimped. There are delightful glimpses into farm
                    living: the cooking, the bread baking, quilting, a description of the family parlor. Good knew the
                    bleak nesses of farming—such as planting corn by hand—and wisely does not omit
                    nor gloss them over; but he states a viable philosophy: "Being kept busy and having a
                    limited amount of money was a good thing. One learns to make good use of time; tends to become
                    resourceful, improvises to provide diversions" (p. 154). He goes on to a fine description
                    of modern fanning in the area, giving both advantages and disadvantages. In the end he is optimistic
                    as fanners have always had to be to remain farmers. "The Valley remains unchanged, its
                    immense drift sheet … characteristic topographic features and inherent qualities
                    essentially the same as they have been for thousands of years" (p. 304).
            
               Black Swamp Farm is a worthy contribution to a literature concerned with the land,
                    a book to read and keep if you are interested in the ecology and philosophy of farming. Brenda Olson
                    Sutherland's interpretative black and white illustrations are just right for the text.
            
                    
                  
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana
                
            Rachel Peden
         
         
            
               Expansion and American Indian Policy, 1783-1812. By Reginald Horsman. (Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1967. Pp. 209. Index. $5.75.)
            This short study of American Indian policy for the years between the Revolutionary War and the War of
                    1812 has as its theme the dilemma facing United States officials of reconciling national interest
                    with national honor. Accepting expansion as inevitable and desirable, the policy makers sought means
                    by which it would also be peaceful and culturally beneficial to the Indian. Such a policy proved
                    impossible to achieve. By 1811 the Indians had rejected the governmental efforts, white settlers had
                    ignored them, and 
                        Washington
                     acquiesced by abandoning them.
            At first, from 1783 to 1786, the United States temporarily scrapped the previous British policy of
                    recognizing Indian claims to land ownership and pursued a policy based on physical occupation which
                    ignored the Indian title to territory east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Too weak militarily and economically to evict the tribes at will and troubled by the
                    moral inconsistencies which naked aggrandizement posed for a nation which had ascribed to the
                    principles set down in the Declaration of Independence, the United States soon returned to the old
                    British policy, with modification.
            
            The British policy had called for acquisition of Indian lands through formal treaty negotiations.
                    Adopting this approach, Congress further hoped to improve Indian relations by passing various
                    regulatory Indian trade and intercourse acts. During the 1790's, the United States expanded
                    its appeal by calling for acculturation. This latter objective eased the consciences of officials
                    who readily assumed as did other western statesmen during the nineteenth century that non-whites
                    would eagerly accept and profit from exposure to the white man's ways.
            Federal policy failed for several reasons. The Indian did not wish to give up his lands nor his
                    culture; the white settler only accepted the expansionist phase of the program; and 
                        Washington
                     showed that it too was, first of all, expansionistic. 
                        Jefferson
                     preached most vigorously the virtues of acculturation to those tribes east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     whose lands he immediately desired. To those west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     he softpeddled the advantages of becoming white men. The end result was that the
                    Indians, threatened by American encroachment, sided with the British in 1812.
            Horsman believes that the United States could have saved itself considerable tribulation had it never
                    enunciated a policy of acculturation. Westward expansion could never have been peacefully achieved
                    for the only policy acceptable to the Indians was for the United States to remain where it was.
                    Since this was historically impossible, Horsman argues that the United States should have adopted a
                    more realistic program, one which would have taken conflict for granted.
            The organizational framework of this study is twofold. Descriptive chapters on the policy itself
                    precede those illustrating the policy in action. Horsman could have written a tighter narrative; for
                    example, the reader is told three times in the space of fifteen pages why certain Indians joined the
                    British in 1812 (pp. 154, 167, 169). The book is adequately researched, and the bibliography
                    includes Horsman's four published articles which formed the basis of this book.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            David M. Voss
         
         
            
               The Troubled Farmer, 18501900: Rural Adjustment to Industrialism. By
                    Earl W. Hayter. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1968. Pp. vii, 349. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $8.50.)
            Nineteenth century rural America, writes Hayter, was profoundly affected by forces attendant to the
                    Industrial Revolution. Especially after 1850 as farmers were challenged by urbanism, mobility,
                    science, and technology, they were faced with a "conflict between their traditional values
                    and those of the strange new world in which they found themselves" resulting in a
                    "disquieting uncertainty" (pp. 9-10). The "troubled farmer,"
                    notes Hayter, was ill equipped to handle the numerous problems resulting from the ever increasing
                    complexity of commercialized agriculture.
            
            The author's purpose is to relate how the Industrial Revolution affected the
                    farmers' daily lives and particularly to describe farm opposition to and support of
                    innovations. This, then, is intended to be a social history; consequently, such topics as currency
                    agitation and tariff reform are not within its scope. Hayter covers a number of diverse farm
                    problems including the oleomargarine controversy, the introduction of barbed wire, the advent of
                    scientific veterinarian practices, and the complex battles over patent rights to farm devices.
            There is much of value and interest in the book, but it is essentially a series of somewhat
                    disjointed essays. Most of the essays are rather clearly related to the central thought of the
                    farmers' difficult adjustment to industrialism, but several are somewhat afield. For
                    example, there is much more attention given to the types of fencing that preceded barbed wire than
                    to the impact of barbed wire itself. Likewise, the chapter "Sheep versus Dogs" is
                    related to the Industrial Revolution on the premise that mechanical gadgetry had transformed the dog
                    from a serviceable animal to a useless creature. These topics could well have been sacrificed in
                    favor of some key neglected areas such as farm machinery, railroads, and farm organizations.
            The essays are the result of extensive research, primarily in farm journals and government reports.
                    They are well organized, evidence much thoughtful preparation, and are copiously documented. The
                    writing is generally clear and concise, but it is marred by frequent rough transitions and use of
                    the first person.
            Despite obvious limitations, the book will be useful for students of nineteenth century agriculture
                    because Hayter provides information on a wide range of miscellaneous, yet important, problems and
                    issues which confronted American farmers.
            
                    
                  
                            Mankato
                         State College
                
            William E. Lass
         
         
            
               The Conservative Reformers: German-American Catholics and the Social Order. By
                    Philip Gleason. (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1968. Pp. x, 272. Notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $8.95.)
            About six million Germans emigrated to the United States between 1820 and 1920. Among them were many
                    Catholics from Bavaria, Westphalia, and other parts of Germany. Within a single decade (1881-1890)
                    the high tide of an estimated 400,000 German Catholics came to America where they formed a
                    self-conscious, distinctive group aware of its German origin and culture and also of its Catholic
                    faith. Eventually the German-American Catholics had their own mutual aid societies, publications,
                    and spokesmen.
            Philip Gleason has studied carefully the evolution of one German- American Catholic organization with
                    a history reaching back to its founding in 1855 in 
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               . This was
                    Der Deutsche Römische-Katholische Central-Verein von Nord Amerika, more commonly called
                    the Central-Verein,  a national federation of parish mutual aid
                    societies. The gradual Americanization of the membership, the dropping of German for English, the
                    strains of World War I on people of multiple loyalties, and the changes in society produced by
                    steady industrialization and growth of city life, all seriously affected the character of the
                    Central-Verein as can be seen in its publication, the Central-Blatt. Membership
                    figures—125,000 in 1916 to some 86,000 in 1930 and then to 311 men in
                    1966—indicate the decline of the Central-Verein and the weakening of German-American
                    Catholic ethnic consciousness, evident by the mid-1920's. An account of the leaders of the
                    organization, their programs and social ideas are essential elements in Gleason's account.
            The author explicitly states that he has undertaken "an organizational and ideological
                    analysis of the evolution of the German-American Catholic group" (p. 258). He has done a
                    good job. The writing is clear, forceful, and always to the point. Gleason has supplied a valuable
                    annotated bibliography which contains some references, incidentally, to materials on Polish,
                    Lithuanian, French-Canadian, and Slovak immigrants in America who all have had strong Catholic
                    loyalties. There is a good index.
            The author did not aim at an explanation of the roots of German- American Catholic self-awareness,
                    the sense of "peoplehood." But, for the reader who does not belong to this group,
                    a short digression might have been a welcome introduction to the distinctive dialects, cooking,
                    music, family celebrations of Christmas, wedding customs, picnics, parades, and festivals which,
                    along with religious affiliation, created a sense of community. Among the German-American Catholics
                    these things deserve a place somewhere in the historical record because they formed the foundation
                    of the Central- Verein; and when they ceased to be, the Central-Verein disappeared with them.
                    Gleason asserts that "to the degree that it is a structured body rather than a formless
                    collectivity of individuals, ethnic organizations actually constitute the
                    group" (p. 217). This carefully phrased assertion places too much emphasis, I believe, on
                    the role of organizations in society, for ethnic organizations can not survive in a vacuum without
                    individuals who share a common culture and a desire to perpetuate it.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Arthur R. Hogue
         
         
            
               The Centennial Years: A Political and Economic History of America from the Late 1870s
                        to the Early 1890s. By Fred A. Shannon. Edited by Robert Huhn Jones. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1967. Pp. xx, 362. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $6.95.)
            The manuscript for this volume was unfinished at the time of Fred Shannon's death; but with
                    the cooperation of the Shannon family, Robert H. Jones, his former student, completed it for
                    publication. Some of the chapters had gone through several drafts, others were only in rough draft
                    when the editor began his work. Some materials were deleted, others relegated to foot-  notes by the editor. But the editor attempted to preserve
                    Shannon's style and organization as much as possible.
            Shannon knew more about the American past than any other historian this reviewer has encountered. And
                    as one who had great respect for Shannon as a historian, he regrets that the book was published. The
                    reviewer is confident that Shannon would never have submitted the volume to his publishers until it
                    had been greatly improved over the version which has now been published. It is with great pain that
                    the volume is assessed for it clearly is not characteristic of the work which Shannon produced
                    during his distinguished career.
            The basic weakness of the volume is its inadequate conceptual framework. It covers essentially the
                    years between 1876 and 1892, but there is no adequate conceptual explanation provided as to why
                    these years constitute a significant period of American history. A consequence of the
                    book's weak conceptualization is its encyclopedic nature.
            The best sections of the volume deal with agriculture. But very little is presented that was not
                    originally in Shannon's excellent volume The Farmer's Last
                    Frontier. Indeed, the basic tragedy of this volume, apart from its inadequate
                    conceptualization, is that very little new information or interpretation is presented. The focus is
                    primarily on politics and economics. Because this was a period when the nation's economic
                    and political systems were undergoing significant changes, it is unfortunate that there is no
                    adequate attempt to explain systematically the changes of the political and economic structures of
                    the period. The political analysis is too much confined to presidential politics, and not enough
                    emphasis is placed on other levels of political activity— particularly at the state and
                    local levels. For all practical purposes, the emerging bureaucratization of politics at the local
                    and state levels is ignored. And for this reviewer's tastes, the economic analysis is
                    overly moralistic, with not enough explanation as to why and how new economic structures were
                    emerging in American society.
            Even so, there are few general histories of the late nineteenth century, and this one, despite its
                    inadequacies, does provide a useful synthesis of the period for the general reader. But this
                    reviewer is confident that many who knew Fred Shannon will share the conclusion that this is not the
                    book that he would have published.
            
                    University of 
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  
               
                
            J. Rogers Hollingsworth
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Hoosiers in the Civil War. By Arville L. Funk. (
                        Chicago
                    : 
                        Adams
                     Press, 1967. Pp. 180. Illustrations, maps, tables, appendix, suggested readings.
                    Paperbound, $2.50.) Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History are
                    doubtless quite familiar with Arville Funk's various booklets and articles on Indiana
                    history. The commentary, tables, maps, and illustrations in this booklet provide much interesting
                    information about Indiana's role in the Civil War and likewise much about the impact of the
                    war upon life within Indiana. The list of suggested readings, with which Funk closes this work, is a
                    useful guide to writings concerning Indiana in the Civil War era.
            
               Solon Robinson, Pioneer and Agriculturist: Select Writings. Volume I, 1825-1845. Volume II, 1846-1851. Edited by Herbert Anthony Kellar.
                    Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D.
                    Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1968. Pp. xxv, 582; xvii, 556. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index, $37.50, set.) These two volumes cover the Indiana years of Solon Robinson, mainly
                    during the 1830's and 1840's, when he lived briefly in southern and then for a
                    longer time in northwestern Indiana. They are particularly useful in illustrating contrasts between
                    frontier agriculture in the southern and the northwestern parts of the state. Robinson's
                    role as a pioneer farmer in Indiana, and as a leader in agricultural innovation and improvement,
                    merits increased consideration by both Indiana and agricultural historians. Hopefully the reprint of
                    these volumes, originally published by the Indiana Historical Bureau, will encourage such
                    consideration.
            
               Recollections of the Last Ten Years, Passed in Occasional Residences and Journeyings in
                        the Valley of the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               . By Timothy Flint. Reprint. New introduction by James D. Norris. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1968. Pp. xviii, 395. Selected bibliography. $14.00.) This
                    volume is one of the most informative, interesting, and significant accounts ever written of life in
                    the Mississippi Valley during the early nineteenth century. It gives
                    substantial attention to Indiana and neighboring states, and it should be widely read by persons
                    interested in Indiana and middle western history who have not yet "discovered"
                    Flint. The Introduction to this reprint edition, by James D. Norris, gives such readers the basic
                    information needed to read Flint's Recollections with understanding and profit. It is
                    unfortunate, however, that an index was not added as well in order to increase the usefulness of the
                    volume.
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         Architecture: From Territorial Times to the Present, A Selective Guide. By
                    Frederick Keeper. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1968. Pp. xv, 304. Illustrations, index. Clothbound, $10.00;
                    paperbound, $1.95.) Keeper's guide to 150 
                        Illinois
                     buildings and structures was sponsored  by the 
                        Illinois
                     Sesquicentennial Commission. It covers 
                        Illinois
                     architecture from territorial times to the present. The author states that
                    "There is no state in the union whose history of architecture can match in total importance
                    that of 
                        Illinois
                    " (p. vii). Although some persons may not agree with this conclusion, many
                    individuals will find this volume helpful in explaining and interpreting 
                        Illinois
                     history in general and its architecture in particular. The 
                        Illinois
                     Sesquicentennial Commission merits commendations for its wisdom in planning and
                    sponsoring this timely publication.
            
               The Revolutionary Frontier, 1763-1783. By Jack M. Sosin. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1967. Pp. xiv, 241. Maps, illustrations, notes, essay on-
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $2.95.) Sosin has produced a quite readable and a very
                    informative account concerning the West during the two decades from the conclusion of the French and
                    Indian War to the end of the American Revolution. Moreover, his annotated bibliography affords a
                    most helpful guide to both the basic primary and secondary sources for the West during the period
                    under review. Sosin gives much emphasis to land speculation and the role of big-time speculators in
                    the development of the West. He also portrays relations between East and West as well as the impact
                    of the frontier on political and social life in a manner which he believes is at considerable
                    variance with the view espoused by Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner about such relations and impact. This reviewer, however, doubts whether Sosin
                    has represented Turner's views as adequately as is desirable or in a context which presents
                    the larger perspectives in which his views require consideration. The two decades between 1763 and
                    1783 are too early and also too brief a period to allow an appropriate testing and evaluation of
                    Turner's views about the influence of the frontier in the development of the United States.
            
               List of Officers of the Army of the United States from 1779-1900 ….
                    Compiled by Colonel Wm. H. Powell. Reprint. (
                        Detroit
                    : Gale Research Company, 1967. Pp. 863. Index of names. $37.00.) This book,
                    originally published in 1900, includes brief information about thousands of the men listed.
                    Genealogists and historians alike, as many of them doubtless already know, can find helpful
                    information in this well stocked volume.
            
               Sectional Stress and Party Strength: A Study of Roll-Call Voting Patterns in the United
                        States House of Representatives, 1836-1860. By Thomas B. Alexander. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1967. Pp. xvii, 284. Tables, figures, appendices, index.
                    $10.00,) The Shrine of Party: Congressional Voting Behavior, 1841-1852. By Joel H.
                    Silbey. ([
                        Pittsburgh
                    ]: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1967. Pp. x, 292. Tables, appendices, notes, bibliographic note, index.
                    $6.00.) These volumes have much in common with regard to content and methodology. Silbey
                    has made a statistical analysis of hundreds of roll call votes in both houses of Congress,
                    1841-1852; Alexander  has done the same for the lower house of
                    Congress, 1836-1860. Each author has assembled, computerized, and evaluated a massive amount of
                    data, and both arrive at countless conclusions about various issues and votes as well as at numerous
                    generalizations about trends and important developments. Used wisely these volumes can be thought
                    provoking and helpful. On the other hand, if used without adequate regard to subjective factors
                    involved, to variations in numbers included from vote to vote, and to the fact that votes cast must
                    inevitably be interpreted in much more than their mere mathematical context, they will be of limited
                    value.
         
         
         
            Subscriptions to Indiana Magazine of History
            Subscriptions to the Indiana Magazine of History are available at $5.00
                    annually, and check or money orders therefor should be addressed to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Library 48, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Nevertheless, prospective subscribers are reminded that membership in
                    the Indiana Historical Society automatically includes subscription to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History as well as other publications and benefits. The catagories of
                    membership available in the society are as follows:
            
               
                  ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP
                  $10.00 per year
               
               
                  SUSTAINING MEMBERSHIP
                  $25.00 per year
               
               
                  CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP
                  $50.00 per year
               
               
                  LIFE MEMBERSHIP
                  $200.00
               
            
            Persons desiring the magazine through society membership should send their checks or money orders to
                    the Indiana Historical Society, Room 409, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            Both current and new subscribers who wish to make direct subscription to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History for the year 1969 are encouraged to do so before February 1, 1969.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
