
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 103, Issue 1, pages 1-118. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:103+issue:1+year:2007&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                Editor's Note
                The Hoosier state is known for many things, but a diverse population has never been among them. In
                    its largest city, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a foreign-born population that once comprised nearly one-quarter of the
                    city's total declined steeply through the twentieth century to less than two percent by
                    1990-a date at which the city ranked second-lowest (after 
                        Memphis
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    ) among the nation's fifty largest in its proportion of foreign-born. Even in
                    the late 1800s, when 
                        Indianapolis's
                     foreign-born residents comprised a significant segment of its total population, the
                    Hoosier capital still ranked near-last in that category, ahead only of a clutch of southern cities.
                The reasons for 
                        Indianapolis's
                     (and, with notable local exceptions, 
                        Indiana's
                    ) historically high native-born population are many and complex. Just as complex-and
                    even harder to assess because of their recency-are the reasons for the diversification of the
                    city's and the state's population in the last two decades. This increasing
                    diversity may help to account for a rising interest among our contributors and our readers in the
                    stories of Hoosiers from a variety of racial, ethnic, and religious backgrounds. The
                    state's black history remains a "growth" field among historians, and I
                    hope that the pages of the IMH have fairly represented at least some of that growth. In recent
                    issues, we have profiled the Japanese Americans who came here in the wake of World War II internment
                    policies and the Asian Indians whose numbers have swelled in more recent decades. In this issue,
                    Richard Moss investigates the dilem-  mas faced by Jewish
                    immigrants living on the south side of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the early 1900s. As Moss's research makes clear, concerns as to what
                    constituted a proper "American" emanated not only from native-born, Protestant
                    citizens, but arose just as pressingly within the ethnic population itself. Moss's work
                    makes clear the fallacy-now as a century ago- of assuming a common point of view from the fact of a
                    common religion or ethnicity.
                Indiana's historic homogeneity may also have been a factor contributing to the
                    state's prominent place in the national eugenics movement. As Alexandra Stern shows in her
                    overview of eugenics practice in the Hoosier state, Indiana physicians and lawmakers were singularly
                    active in the nationwide movement to breed better citizens. The history of the most startling of
                    their efforts in this campaign-the forced sterilization of selected prisoners and mental patients-is
                    more complicated than it might first appear. Stern's survey of law, practice, and attitude
                    among Indiana's eugenicists-and their opponents-will provide the scholarly framework for a
                    day-long commemoration of the centennial of the first state eugenics law, which will take place
                    April 12, 2007. Events, all free and open to the public, include a symposium, exhibition opening,
                    and historical-plaque dedication at the Indiana State Library. For more on these activities, visit
                        http://www.bioethics.iupui.edu/Eugenics/index.htm.
                We also touch in this issue upon one of 
                        Indiana's
                     favorite contact sports, politics. In quite different ways, Keith Erekson's
                    review essay on the recently opened Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , and Robert Fuller's account of the early congressional career of
                    Indiana's New Deal-era Republican representative Charles Halleck both reflect on our
                    state's legacy to the national political scene, and on the ways in which political
                    reputations are made, unmade, and remade over time.
                Finally, a note for those of you who traditionally look for the annual IMH index in our March issue:
                    You will find the 2006 index online, at http://www.indiana.edu/imaghist. As our
                    full run is digitized in the coming year, our print and online indexes will ultimately merge in a
                    single search engine that will allow searching by keyword, title, author, and subject. I look
                    forward to keeping you posted on our progress in this department.
            
            
            
                "We Cannot Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear" Eugenics in the
                    Hoosier Heartland
                ALEXANDRA MINNA STERN
                In the April 1929 Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health Dr. Thurman
                    B. Rice pondered in a column entitled "If I were Mussolini" how he would run 
                        Indiana
                     if granted absolute control.1Equal parts folksy and frank, this
                    contribution to the bulletin illustrated Rice's celebrated "ability to write and
                    converse in typical Hoosier jar- 
                        Alexanda Minna Stern is associate director of the Center for the History of Medicine and
                            associate professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and the Program in
                            American Culture at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. She is the author of Eugenic Nation: Faults and Frontiers of Better Breeding in Modern 
                                    America
                                 (2005). The author would like to thank the many people who have
                            assisted in various ways with this article. They include archivist Vicki Casteel, who always
                            has granted time out of her demanding schedule at the Indiana State Archives and shared her
                            own original research on sterilization; the entire staff of the Indiana State Archives for
                            their amicable assistance; the consultants at the University of Michigans Center for
                            Statistical Consultation and Research for converting a database of sterilization orders into
                            SPSS and running basic statistical analysis; Melissa Bingmann for her hospitality and
                            digging up sources at the American Philosophical Society; Judi Izuka-Campbell for her
                            meticulous collection of data on Muscatatuck Colony sterilization orders and her precocious
                            daughter Tori who took superb notes on the history of the Indiana Society for Mental
                            Hygiene; Jason Lantzer for sharing his findings on the legislative and political aspects of
                            Indianas sterilization acts; Bill Schneider for the invitation to participate in the "
                                Indiana
                             and the Legacy of State and Local Eugenics" project; and, for their
                            superb and insightful comments, Eric Sandweiss and an anonymous IMH
                            reviewer.
                        1Thurman B. Rice, "If I were Mussolini," Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health (hereafter Monthly Bulletin of the ISBH) 32 no. 4 (April 1929), 53-54.
                    
                     gon."2 Having reviewed what he
                    favored but would not require, such as making folks go to church on Sunday and abstain from alcohol
                    ("I am as dry as an Arabian camel"), Rice listed a series of measures that he
                    would enforce, all of them targeting those he deemed "unfit to procreate."3 Specifically, Rice endorsed marital restrictions on and the sterilization of
                    Hoosiers with bad heredity: the feebleminded, inveterate criminals, and parents whose firstborn was
                    a confirmed defective.
                On paper many of Rice's wishes had already been fulfilled, as 
                        Indiana
                     was home to one of the first restrictive marriage laws in the country, passed in 1905
                    and prohibiting the "mentally deficient, persons with a 'transmissible
                    disease' and habitual drunkards" from marital unions.4 In
                    addition, in 1907, and again in 1927, the state legislature had approved statutes authorizing the
                    sterilization of the "insane, feeble-minded, or epileptic persons" in custodial
                        care.5 Even so, Rice wanted to ensure the exacting implementation of these
                    laws and extend sterilization outside of the walls of state institutions. A professor in the
                    Department of Public Health at the Indiana University School of Medicine, the longstanding editor of
                    the Monthly Bulletin, and the future state health commissioner, Rice was well
                    positioned to communicate his ideas about the biological and social burden of defective heredity. In
                    numerous entries in the Monthly Bulletin, in his book ,Racial
                    Hygiene, and in serialized articles on the history of medicine in 
                        Indiana
                    , Rice expounded on the need to protect 
                        America's
                     good blood and superior stock from bad "germ plasm" through policies
                    ranging from monetary bonuses to augment fit families to prenuptial health certificates, from
                    mothers' pensions to immigration control.6 In 1928 the American
                    Eugenics Society, the country's foremost organization devoted to race 
                        2"Dr. Thurman B. Rice, 1888-1952," Monthly Bulletin of the ISBH, 55 no. 12 (April 1952), 271- 81.
                        3Rice, "If I were Mussolini," Monthly
                                Bulletin of the ISBH.
                        4>Daniel J. Kevles, In the Name of Eugenics: Genetics and
                                the Uses of Human Heredity, rev. ed. (Cambridge, Mass., 1995), 100. 
                        5"An Act entitled to prevent procreation of confirmed
                            criminals, idiots, imbeciles, and rapists," Laws of the State of 
                                    Indiana
                                 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1907), 377-78; "An Act to provide for the sexual sterilization of
                            inmates of state institutions in certain cases," Laws of the State of 
                                    Indiana
                                 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), 713-17, Sterilization File (SF), 
                                Indiana
                             State Archives (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            ).
                        6Thurman B. Rice, Racial Hygiene: A Practical Discussion
                                of Eugenics and Race Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929).
                    
                     hygiene, acknowledged Rice by appointing him chairman of the
                    Indiana State Eugenics Committee.7 Rice was a high-flying Hoosier eugenicist,
                    but he was not alone. Many distinguished leaders in 
                        Indiana
                     public health, education, and welfare gravitated towards eugenics in the first half of
                    the twentieth century.
                Coined by the British statistician Sir Francis Galton in 1883 to describe a new scientific approach
                    to the improvement of society through the study and control of human heredity, eugenics attracted a
                    wide spectrum of adherents from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century.8 Ranging from the far left and the far right to the mundane middle, eugenicists included
                    biologists, physicians, industrialists, psychologists, socialists, feminists, and traditionalists,
                    and eugenic societies appeared in nations as diverse as 
                        Japan
                    , 
                        Italy
                    , 
                        Brazil
                    , and 
                        Romania
                    . What this heterogeneous group shared was the conviction that social maladies could be
                    addressed through scientific solutions and the application of biological models, especially those
                    derived from the burgeoning field of genetics. By the early 1900s, a eugenics movement was cohering
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , propelled by organizations such as the American Breeders' Association and
                    prominent scientists such as Charles B. Davenport, who founded the Eugenics Record Office in 
                        Cold Spring
                        Harbor
                    , 
                        New York
                    , in 1910.9 Concomitantly, states started to pass marriage bans and
                    laws for the segregation and sterilization of the "unfit," and in the 1920s the
                    U.S. Congress approved eugenically inspired immigration quotas.
                In the past few decades, scholars have published dozens of books and articles on eugenics,
                    demonstrating its global reach, expansive appeal, and ideological flexibility.10
                    More recently, delving beyond 
                        7President, American Eugenics Society, to Dr. Rice, September 28,
                            1928, Thurman B. Rice folder, American Eugenics Society Records (AES), 575.06 Am3, American
                            Philosophical Society (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            ).
                        8Sir Francis Galton, Essays in Eugenics (London,
                            1909).
                        9Two of the most illuminating books on eugenics are Kevles, In the Name of Eugenics and Diane B. Paul, Controlling Human
                                Heredity: 1865 to the Present (
                                Atlantic
                                Highlands
                            , 
                                NJ
                            ., 1995). Also see Garland E. Allen, "The Eugenics Record Office at 
                                Cold Spring
                                Harbor
                            , 1910-1940," Osiris, 2nd ser., 2 (1986), 225-64.
                        10Three examples of this extensive scholarship are Gunnar Broberg and
                            Nils Roll-Hansen, Eugenics and the Welfare State: Sterilization Policy in 
                                    Denmark
                                , 
                                    Sweden
                                , 
                                    Norway
                                 and 
                                    Finland
                                 (
                                East Lansing
                            , 
                                Mich
                            ., 1996); Mark B. Adams, ed., The Wellborn Science: Eugenics in 
                                    Germany
                                , 
                                    France
                                , 
                                    Brazil
                                , and 
                                    Russia
                                 (
                                New York
                            , 1990); and Paul Weindling, Health, Race, and German Politics
                                between National Unification and Nazism, 1870-1945 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                U.K.
                            , 1989).
                    
                    
                    
                        Hoosiers photographed by field workers for the Board of State Charities
                            
                                Indiana's
                             1920s eugenics program included identifying the state's
                            "feebleminded." Most thus designated were among the rural poor, like these
                            families. Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                     national organizations and patterns, 
                        U.S.
                     historians have applied a regional lens to probe eugenics in states such as 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Oregon
                    , and 
                        California
                    , to name just a few.11 This research has demonstrated that even as
                    eugenicists participated actively in national organizations such as the American Eugenics Society
                    and the Human Betterment Foundation, the hereditarian ideas they espoused and the policies they
                    helped to enact were profoundly shaped by the 
                        11Gregory Michael Dorr, Segregation's Science:
                                The American Eugenics Movement and 
                                     Virginia
                                , 1900-1980 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N. C.
                            , 2007);Johanna Schoen, Choice and Coercion: Birth Control,
                                Sterilization, and Abortion in Public Health and Welfare (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N. C.
                            , 2005); Molly Ladd- Taylor, "The 'Sociological
                            Advantages' of Sterilization: Fiscal Policies and Feeble-Minded Women in Interwar 
                                Minnesota
                            ," in Mental Retardation in 
                                    America
                                : A Historical Reader, eds. Steven Noll and James W. Trent, Jr. (
                                New York
                            , 2004), 281-99; Mark A. Largent, "'The Greatest Curse of the
                            Race': Eugenic Sterilization in 
                                Oregon
                            , 1909-1983," Oregon Historical Quarterly, 103
                            (Summer 2002), 188-209; Alexandra Minna Stern, Eugenic Nation: Faults and
                                Frontiers of Better Breeding in Modern 
                                    America
                                 (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 2005). 
                    
                     specific local contexts in which they operated. Rephrasing the
                    oft-quoted maxim, this scholarship underlines that "all eugenics was local."
                This essay provides a historical overview of eugenics in 
                        Indiana
                     from 1900 to 1960 and situates the 
                        Indiana
                     experience on the national horizon. In addition to highlighting the principal actors
                    who pursued and the ordinary people who were affected by eugenics, this essay explores several
                    tantalizing questions: Why did 
                        Indiana
                    -of all the states in the union-pioneer the first eugenic sterilization law in the
                    world? Who was sterilized in state institutions and how were sterilizations ordered and carried out?
                    Why did eugenics prosper in a state characterized by a preponderance of native-born white residents
                    and a paucity of immigrants and racial minorities? What ideological framework enabled Hoosier
                    eugenicists to link the cultivation of better babies to the sterilization of defectives? Finally,
                    who was deemed unfit (and fit) according to the eugenic standards of the day and what might this
                    reveal about the hopes and anxieties concerning 
                        Indiana's
                     future held by the state's leaders in the first half of the twentieth century?
                Now is an apt moment to look back at the history of eugenics in 
                        Indiana
                    . April 2007 marks the centenary of the landmark sterilization law. Eventually ruled
                    unconstitutional and replaced by a revamped statute in 1927, this law set the stage for the
                    sterilization of over 2,000 Hoosiers committed to mental and penal facilities. With the hindsight of
                    a century, it is instructive to evaluate the motivations behind this legislation and to assess how
                    other aspects of eugenics in 
                        Indiana
                    -such as mental surveys and the dissemination of baby care advice-diverged from and
                    converged with the state's sterilization policy. Moreover, analyzing the history of
                    eugenics in 
                        Indiana
                     can shed light on the complex- ity of eugenics in the 
                        United States
                     and point to fruitful avenues of inquiry on the local and state level. Even if the
                    history examined in this article can be consigned to an increasingly distant past, many of the
                    ethical questions raised remain as compelling today. The dilemmas associated with reproduction,
                    breeding, and decisions about which human traits are desirable or undesirable appear, if anything,
                    even more pronounced in the twenty-first century, as fertility technologies and genetic discoveries
                    expand at an unprecedented rate.
                This article begins with a discussion of the passage of the 1907 sterilization law, which was ruled
                    unconstitutional by the Indiana Supreme Court in 1921. I then move to an examination of the
                    activities of the Committee on Mental Defectives formed by the Board of State Charities in 1915 to
                    combat an apparent crisis of "mental defectiveness in 
                        Indiana
                    ."12 Next I examine the Division of Infant and Child
                    Hygiene, which directed immensely popular better babies contests at the Indiana State Fair from 1920
                    to 1932. In the last section I return to the topic of sterilization, discussing the 1927 statute and
                    its implementation at the Fort Wayne State School, where reproductive surgeries were performed on
                    approximately 1,800 inmates from 1930 to 1960.
                "THE KNIFE ONLY CAN REACH THEM"
                In May 1909 Eddie Millard, an inmate at the Indiana State Prison, sent a statement of complaint to
                    Governor Thomas R. Marshall describing his forced sterilization two years earlier at the hands of
                    Dr. Harry C. Sharp, the medical superintendent of the Indiana Reformatory in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . According to Millard, after being convicted of petty larceny and sentenced to the
                    reformatory in 1907, he was sent to the prison hospital where Sharp interrogated him with a
                    "great many questions in regard to [his] past life." Based on this evaluation,
                    Sharp told Millard that "'I think we will cut your cords."'
                    Millard bridled at this suggestion, informing Sharp that he "had not been convicted of any
                    acts . . . that warranted such an operation necessary." Despite physically resisting Sharp
                    in the operating room, Millard was sterilized "against [his] will, the cords of both
                    testicles being clipped" in March 1908.13 The following year Millard
                    was transferred to the state prison, where he was granted writing privileges and penned his
                    protestation to the Governor.
                Millard's dramatic description of his forced vasectomy offers one of the few glimpses into
                    how the "Indiana Plan," as Sharp dubbed the state's sterilization policy,
                    affected inmates. Yet Millard was just one of the 119 men who underwent sterilization at the Indiana
                    Reformatory during the fiscal year 1907-1908.14 Moreover, Millard's
                    operation was 
                        12Letter from Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, September 18, 1916, Folder 1,
                            Box 2, Reports and Correspondence, Papers of the Committee on Mental Defectives (CMD), Board
                            of State Charities (BSC), Indiana State Archives.
                        13 "Statement of transferred prisoner, Eddie Millard,
                            Register Number 3930," May 7, 1909, James D. Reid to Hon. Thomas R. Marshall, May
                            8, 1909, Folder 4, Box 86, Reformatory File, 1909-1913, Papers of Governor Thomas R.
                            Marshall (TRM), Indiana State Archives.
                        14Angela Gugliotta, "'Dr. Sharp with his Little
                            Knife': Therapeutic and Punitive Origins of Eugenic Vasectomy-
                                Indiana
                            , 1892-1921,"Journal of the History of Medicine, 53 (October 1998),
                            371-406. At the time the average daily population at the Indiana Reformatory was 1,145,
                            meaning that over 10 percent of inmates were sterilized in 1907-1908.
                    
                     carried out under the provisions of 
                        Indiana's
                     sterilization law, the first such legislation in the world. Sponsored by Dr. Horace G.
                    Read, state legislator for Hamilton and Tipton Counties, and ardently endorsed by Sharp, Indiana
                    Reformatory Superintendent W. H. Whittaker, and Indiana State Board of Health Secretary Dr. John N.
                    Hurty, this bill passed by a moderate margin in the legislature and was signed into law on April 9,
                    1907, by Governor James Frank Hanly, an anti-vice crusader and hard-line
                        prohibitionist."15 Intended to stop the propagation of
                    "confirmed criminals, idiots, imbeciles and rapists" the law obliged mental and
                    penal institutions to appoint two surgeons (in addition to existing medical personnel), who, along
                    with the superintendents, were empowered to sterilize inmates for whom "procreation is
                    inadvisable and there is no probability of improvement of the mental condition."16
                Even though this law was a watershed for the progress of eugenics in 
                        Indiana
                     and the 
                        United States
                    , it was not formulated de novo. Instead, it represented the
                    legalistic culmination of at least two decades of steady development of ideas about criminality,
                    degeneracy, hyper-sexuality, and the primacy of heredity in determining personality and familial
                    traits. Starting in the late nineteenth century, influential Indianans including Hurty and
                    Congregationalist minister Oscar McCulloch, began to express alarm over what they perceived to be a
                    rapidly growing class of degenerate and diseased paupers. To understand this phenomenon they turned
                    to eugenics, which distilled complex social, economic, and environmental issues into simplistic
                    explanations of genetic inheritance. As Hurty told the Indianapolis Literary Club, "all
                    social problems, which we have assiduously tried to solve by education, care, cure and relief, are
                    fast becoming recognized to be biological problems."'17
                Through professional and civic networks, the eugenics crusade in 
                        Indiana
                     began to coalesce in the early 1900s. Boosted by his reputation 
                        15On Sharp's and Whittaker's support of the
                            sterilization law see Indianapolis Morning Star, March 7, 1907, p. 10. For
                            an excellent political history of 
                                Indiana's
                             sterilization laws see Jason Lantzer, "A Very Progressive Reform: 
                                Indiana
                             in the Age of Eugenics," unpublished manuscript in author's
                            possession. For a discussion of the politics of prohibition in 
                                Indiana
                             and the 
                                 United States
                             see Lanzter, "Prohibition is here to stay": The
                                Rev. Edward S. Shumaker and the Rise and Fall of Dry Culture in 
                                     America
                                 (University of Notre Dame Press, forthcoming).
                        16Statute cited in Thurman B. Rice, The Hoosier Health
                                Officer: A Biography of Dr. John N. Hurty (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1946), 210.
                        17John N. Hurty, "The Passing of the Great Race,"
                            Folder 5, Box 1, Papers of John N. Hurty (JNH), Indiana State Archives.
                    
                    as a nationally respected health leader, Hurty stood at the
                    forefront of this burgeoning movement, regularly giving talks with titles such as "Making a
                    Better Race" and "Morons" to local physicians and reformers.18 His was a decidedly pessimistic perspective: since it was impossible to
                    encourage the fit to reproduce at a rate fast enough to offset the unceasing propagation of the
                    unfit, eugenicists needed to put a stop to "breeding from the worst."19 Hurty took great pride in his state's aggressive efforts against
                    "race deterioration" and often expounded on the virtues of the sterilization law
                    as well as the eugenic marriage ban. He deemed sterilization a "higher hygiene, through
                    which we can hope to better the race." Voicing an attitude widespread among American
                    eugenicists, Hurty contended that social amelioration and instruction could never cure degenerates
                    who had "no power, no force of mind, to withstand temptation," declaring
                    "the knife only can reach them."20 One of the reasons eugenics
                    gained an early foothold in 
                        Indiana
                     was because its influential spokesman Hurty saw little difference between public health
                    and eugenics. From his perspective, both involved broad-based sanitary measures guided by the latest
                    scientific discoveries and advances; both were undertaken for humanitarian purposes; and both strove
                    to end the suffering of unfortunates and to maximize the overall health of the body politic.21 Hurty praised his signature quarantine (1903), school sanitation (1911), and
                    pure food and drug (1906) acts in the same breath as the marriage and sterilization laws.22
                
                    18During the first two decades of the twentieth century preeminent medical
                        authorities recognized Hurty's public health leadership. For example, in 1915, the
                        American Medical Association ranked Indiana sixth in the country in terms of the effectiveness
                        of its public health programs. That same year, a dinner acknowledging Hurty's many
                        years of public health service attracted such prominent national figures as Victor C. Vaughan,
                        Dean of the University of Michigan Medical School, and Dr. Alexander C. Craig, Secretary of the
                        AMA. See James H. Madison, 
                            Indiana
                         through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                        1920-1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 309; and "Anniversary Dinner in Honor of Doctor John N.
                        Hurty," Folder 18, Box 1, JNH.
                    19John N. Hurty, "Practical Eugenics in 
                             Indiana
                        " (1911), Folder 22, Box 1,JNH.
                    20Harry C. Sharp, Vasectomy: A Means of Preventing Defective
                            Procreation (
                            Jeffersonville
                        , 
                             Ind.
                        , 1909), 16.
                    21 Martin S. Pernick, "Eugenics and Public Health in American
                        History," American Journal of Public Health, 87 (November 1997),
                        1767-72.
                    22Rice, The Hoosier Health Officer; and Clifton J.
                        Phillips, 
                                 Indiana
                             in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968), chap. 12.
                
                
                As Hurty was spreading the eugenic gospel throughout 
                        Indiana
                    , his colleague Sharp was busy experimenting with sterilization as a therapy for
                    troubled prisoners. At the outset Sharp was attracted to vasectomy (a procedure he helped to refine)
                    as an alternative to castration that he believed could effectively treat onanism and sexual
                        deviancy.23 With this premise in mind, Sharp began to vasectomize inmates at
                    the Indiana Reformatory in 1899, performing approximately 225 such operations before the sterilization law was passed in 1907.24 Gradually Sharp moved
                    away from seeing vasectomy primarily as a therapeutic measure and began to regard it as an eugenic
                    intervention capable of improving the human race. Under the hereditarian spell and likely aware that
                    observers might interpret the unwarranted vasectomy of inmates as unsavory at best, Sharp urged the
                    legislature to pass a compulsory sterilization law. He believed this act simultaneously would save
                    the state thousands of dollars by allowing for the release of treated inmates, thereby halting the
                    transmission of "mental as well as physical defects" to their offspring.25 In his 1909 pamphlet Vasectomy, Sharp enthusiastically
                    reported that he had sterilized a total of 456 men from 1899 to 1909 and advocated the
                    "Indiana Plan" in facilities beyond the state reformatory.26
                Despite strong support in high places, Governor Thomas Marshall, who succeeded Hanly in 1909, was
                    apprehensive about the statute and Sharp's vasectomies. Due in part to a handful of letters
                    like Millard's that condemned the forceful tactics employed at the Indiana Reformatory, and
                    in part to partisan one-upmanship, Marshall ordered a moratorium on sterilizations in state
                    institutions in spring 1909.27 This turn of events 
                        23Elof Axel Carlson perceptively makes this point in The
                                Unfit: A History of a Bad Idea (
                                Cold Spring
                                Harbor
                            , 
                                N. Y.
                            , 2001).
                        24It is very difficult to determine precisely how many operations
                            Sharp performed between 1899 and 1907. However, in The Sterilization of
                                Degenerates (
                                Jeffersonville
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1909), p. 7, Sharp wrote that between 1899 and 1908 he performed 236
                            operations. Based on the analysis of the Indiana Reformatory minute books completed by Vicki
                            Casteel, archivist at the Indiana State Archives, and on the Annual Report of
                                the Board of Trustees of the Indiana Reformatory for the Year Ending September 30,
                            1906 (
                                Jeffersonville
                            , 
                                Ind
                            , 1906), Sharp performed 206 sterilizations between 1899 and 1906 and an
                            additional 21 sterilizations between 1906 and 1907. Thus, the numbers of sterilizations
                            performed by Sharp at the Indiana Reformatory between 1899 and the passage of the 1907
                            sterilization can be safely estimated at about 225.
                        25Sharp, Vasectomy, 2-3.
                        26Ibid., 9.
                        27Correspondence Folder, TRM; Gugliotta, "'Dr. Sharp
                            with his Little Knife', 371-406; Carlson, The Unfit,
                        207-22.
                    
                     frustrated but did not dissuade Sharp or Hurty, who told a
                    colleague that Marshall was "a good man in every respect, but he has not yet been brought
                    around to our advanced ideas."28
                Much to Hurty's chagrin, neither Marshall nor his immediate successors were brought around.
                    As more and more of the sterilization laws passed in American states came under legal scrutiny in
                    the 1910s and were rendered unconstitutional for various reasons, 
                        Indiana's
                     governors became wary of countenancing an act that contained virtually no protections
                    for patients or inmates.29 Given this nebulous state of affairs, Governor James
                    Goodrich decided in 1919 that the time had come to have "the constitutionality of the law
                    tested" in order to determine its legality and applicability.30 He
                    appointed the 
                        Jeffersonville city
                     attorney to defend Warren Wallace Smith, convicted of rape and incest, against a
                    sterilization order approved by the Indiana Reformatory's board of trustees.31 After a decision for Smith in the Clark Circuit Court, Dr. Charles F Williams, chief
                    physician of the Indiana Reformatory, appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court, which in turn upheld
                    the lower court's decision in 1921. Additionally, the high court clarified that the
                    sterilization law violated both the state constitution and the U.S. Constitution, specifically the
                    latter's Fourteenth Amendment, by depriving Smith of "life, liberty and property
                    without due process of law" and of "equal protection of the laws." This
                    decision also stated "while vasectomy is physically less severe than castration, in its
                    results it is much the coarser and more vulgar, and is equally cruel and inhuman."32
                In an ironic twist, the state that had passed the world's first eugenic sterilization law
                    scarcely implemented it for almost two decades. 
                        Indiana's
                     1907 sterilization law faltered because of its inchoate wording, Sharp's
                    imprudence, and the reluctance of governors cognizant that 
                        28John N. Hurty to George W Way, July 19, 1909, Hurty Letterbooks,
                            JNH.
                        29Lantzer, "A Very Progressive Reform"; Philip R.
                            Reilly, The Surgical Solution: A History of Involuntary Sterilization in the 
                                     United States
                                 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 
                                Md.
                            , 1991); Harry H. Laughlin, Eugenical Sterilization in the 
                                    United States
                                 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1922).
                        30George A. H. Shideler to Governor J. P. Goodrich, September 9, 1909,
                            Folder 2, Box 159, Indiana Reformatory Correspondence, Documents and Reports, Papers of
                            Governor James Goodrich (JG), Indiana State Archives.
                        31Memorandum dated September 9, 1919, ibid.
                        32Williams v. Smith, No. 23,709. State of Indiana in
                            the Supreme Court, Brief of Appellee, 4-5; Smith v. Williams, No.
                            12,106. Appeal from the Clark Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of Indiana, SF;
                            "Eugenic Sterilization in 
                                Indiana
                            ," Indiana Law Journal, 38 (Spring 1963),
                        275-89.
                    
                     analogous statutes were being struck down around the country.
                    Court rulings demonstrated that sterilization acts that could be construed as punitive rather than
                    eugenic or preventive in intent and outcome frequently did not pass muster against constitutional
                    jurisprudence. To a great extent, 
                        Indiana's
                     statute was no more than a legislative postscript for an ambiguous sterilization
                    campaign already well underway. Insofar as it provided no recourse for targeted inmates and was put
                    into practice exclusively in one state prison, this law smacked too much of punishment and too
                    little of public health, an oversight apparently lost on Hurty. When a new cohort of legislators
                    ratified a revamped act in 1927, they had learned what pitfalls and problematic terminology to
                    avoid. In the meantime, 
                        Indiana's
                     sterilization hiatus served as a fertile period for the development of other, no less
                    important, facets of Hoosier eugenics.
                BEWARE THE KENTUCKY HILL-FOLK
                Who were the ever-multiplying degenerates that so preoccupied 
                        Indiana
                     eugenicists? As scholars of disability and education have shown, some were people who
                    today would be considered mentally retarded or developmentally disabled.33
                    Others were mentally ill individuals diagnosed with conditions that psychiatrists considered organic
                    or hereditary in origin.34 Many more, however, were poor and disenfranchised
                    Hoosiers marginalized by the processes of industrialization, urbanization, and modernization that
                    transformed the state from 1880 to 1940.
                From the late nineteenth to the early twentieth century, 
                        Indiana
                     underwent far-reaching changes on many levels. First, the population rose dramatically,
                    jumping from just under 2 million in 1880 to nearly 3 million by 1920.35 Second,
                    the state's rural counties experienced considerable population decline starting in 1910.
                    Whereas 65.7 percent of Hoosiers lived in rural areas in 1900, by 1930 this percentage had fallen
                        
                        33Noll and Trent, eds., Mental Retardation in 
                                    America
                                ; Trent, Inventing the Feeble Mind: A History of Mental
                                Retardation in the 
                                    United States
                                 (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 1994). On 
                                Indiana
                             see Robert L. Osgood, "From 'Public Liabilities' to
                            'Public Assets': Special Education for Children with Mental Retardation
                            for Children with Mental Retardation in 
                                Indiana
                             Public Schools, 1908- 1931," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, 98 (September 2002), 203-25.
                        34Ian Robert Dowbiggin, Keeping America Sane: Psychiatry
                                and Eugenics in the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                , 1880-1940 (
                                Ithaca
                            , 
                                N. Y.
                            , 1997); Joel Braslow, Mental Ills and Bodily Cures: Psychiatric
                                Treatment in the First Half of the Twentieth Century (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 1997).
                        35
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 21; Phillips, 
                                    Indiana
                                 in Transition, 363.
                    
                     to 44.5.36 This shift was made evident in
                    higher population concentrations in the principal cities of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        South Bend
                    , and most importantly, the capital 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which claimed over 10 percent of the entire state population by 1920.37 Third, 
                        Indiana's
                     economic mainstay of agriculture was undergoing major changes, as mechanized power,
                    crop diversity, growing livestock production, and value-added commercialization gradually supplanted
                    the frontier farming associated with subsistence, horse, and manpower inputs. As in the domain of
                    health, agriculture was altered by the rising authority of scientific methods and standards, which
                    farmers often learned through extension programs and traveling agricultural agents.38 Fourth, an outspreading transportation network of railways, interurbans, and roads was
                    reconfiguring the landscape, as was the arrival of running water, sewage, electricity, and
                    telephones. Finally, this was also the time of a "great awakening in education,"
                    when a modern public school system was established and attendance for all children aged eight to
                    fourteen was made mandatory. For example, from 1900 to 1920 the number of high school students
                    climbed from 35,246 to 78,849, giving 
                        Indiana
                     the fourth-highest proportion of enrollees in the nation.39 While
                    these changes brought greater wealth and occupational opportunities to many Hoosiers, they also
                    unleashed societal dislocations that exacerbated class divisions and the cultural gaps between the
                    literate and illiterate, schooled and unschooled.
                Both 
                        Indiana's
                     inaugural charter of 1816 and the state's revised charter of 1851 had
                    guaranteed liberal provisions for the protection of the vulnerable and disenfranchised.40 The founding constitution explicitly pledged a penal code based "on
                    the principles of reformation and not of vindictive justice" and the creation of a system
                    of care, education, and treatment for the poor, aged, and infirm.41 The 1851
                    constitution 
                        36
                                Madison
                            , 
                                    Indiana
                                 through Tradition and Change, 20-21.
                        37Philips, 
                                    Indiana
                                 in Transition, 366-67.
                        38Ibid., chap. 4.
                        39Ibid., 395.
                        40Amos W. Butler, 
                                    Indiana
                                : A Century of Progress, A Study of the Development of Public Charities and
                                Corrections, 1790-1915 (
                                Jeffersonville
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1916); and David J. Bodenhamer and Hon. Randall T. Shepard, eds., The History of 
                                    Indiana
                                 Law (
                                Athens
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 2006).
                        41
                                Butler
                            , 
                                    Indiana
                                : A Century of Progress, 1.
                    
                     expanded this to include the deaf, blind, insane, and juvenile
                        offenders.42 This basic commitment to welfare and benevolence laid the
                    parameters for the formation in 1889 of the Board of State Charities (BSC), which was charged with
                    overseeing a growing constellation of facilities for the insane, orphans, convicts, feebleminded,
                    and troubled children.43
                The BSC was the brainchild of Oscar McCulloch, who encapsulated his fears of degenerates overrunning 
                        Indiana
                     in The Tribe of Ishmael, a family study that equated the
                    proliferating depraved clan of the "Ishmaelites" with the Sacculina, a crab
                        parasite.44 Such an ideological underpinning primed the BSC to rely chiefly
                    on hereditarian principles to interpret the heightened visibility of those Hoosiers left behind by
                    modernization. In particular, Amos W. Butler, the BSC's secretary from 1898 to 1923, turned
                    to eugenic theories to grasp and resolve the state's accelerating rate of
                    "pauperism, degeneracy and crime."45 Butler was a Progressive
                    reformer whose training as a zoologist prepared him to apply scientific research to social
                        welfare.46 In 1915, with Governor Samuel Ralston's blessing, he
                    created the Committee on Mental Defectives (CMD), recruiting "eight prominent
                    citizens" to establish the committee's mission and goals.47 In
                    consultation with national figures in mental hygiene, they settled on a rigorous and objective study
                    of "mental defectives-including the epileptic, feeble-minded and insane" and an
                    assessment of "what is being done for them here and elsewhere."48 For eugenic expertise, Butler contacted the Eugenics Record Office 
                        42Ibid.
                        43Ibid., 41.
                        44Oscar McCulloch, The Tribe of Ishmael: A Study in
                                Social Degradation (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1888); and Stephen Ray Hall, "Oscar McCulloch and 
                                Indiana
                             Eugenics" (Ph.D. diss., School of Education, Virginia Commonwealth
                            University, 1993).
                        45Amos W. Butler to Dr. Oliver, September 21, 1917, Folder 11, Box 1,
                            Correspondence and Reports, CMD, SBC.
                        46See Robert L. Osgood, "The Menace of the Feebleminded:
                            George Bliss, Amos Butler, and the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives," Indiana Magazine of History, 97 (December 2001), 253-77.
                        47The eight selected were the chairman of the BSC's Committee
                            on Hospitals for the Insane, two superintendents of state insane hospitals, the dean of the
                            Indiana University School of Medicine, the superintendent of the Village of Epileptics, a
                            state senator, and a state representative.
                        48Amos W. Butler to Dr. Oliver, September 21, 1917, Folder 11, Box 1,
                            Correspondence and Reports, CMD, SBC.
                     which, after some negotiation, "loaned"
                    him Arthur H. Estabrook (the author of an updated version of the classic The
                    Jukes) and provided several graduates of its summer training school.49
                    Before long CMD researchers set off to locate mental defectives in institutions, schools, and the
                    general population, many of whom had been identified by local physicians, wardens, lawyers,
                    teachers, and civic leaders.
                The CMD's labors from 1916 to 1922 resulted in three reports and the calculation that 2.1
                    percent of Hoosiers were mental defectives.50 While the first two reports
                    compared mental defectiveness in ten counties, the third devoted much of its space to mental surveys
                    conducted in schools, orphanages, and the 
                        Marion County
                     courts.51 Each report echoed a refrain common among American
                    eugenicists, that of the three types of defectives-epileptic, insane, and feebleminded-without a
                    doubt the latter posed the gravest threat. Unlike the more easily recognized and interned epileptics
                    and insane, the feebleminded were scattered "everywhere, in town and city and
                    country" and produced "more pauperism, degeneracy and crime than any other one
                        force."52 Of particular concern were morons, the highest grade of
                    feebleminded. While their lesser counterparts, idiots and imbeciles, were sufficiently retarded to
                    warrant permanent institutionalization, morons represented a trickier challenge because they could
                    function in society: "the morons are more nearly like the rest of us-they may even appear
                        normal."53 According to 
                        49Initial agreement detailed in Arthur H. Estabrook to Amos W. Butler,
                            April 28, 1916, Folder 33, Box 1, Correspondence and Reports, CMD, SBC; Estabrook, The Jukes in 1915 (
                                Washington,
                                D.C.
                            , 1916). Estabrook also updated McCulloch's The Tribe of
                                Ishmael, which he retooled with more overt eugenic language and presented at the
                            Second International Congress of Eugenics held in 
                                New York
                             in 1921. See Estabrook, "The Tribe of Ishmael," in Eugenics, Genetics and the Family: Scientific Papers of the Second
                                International Congress of Eugenics (
                                Baltimore
                            , 
                                Md.
                            , 1923), 398-404.
                        50Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                , Second Report of the Indiana Committee of Mental Defectives (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 56.
                        51Also see Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                , Report of the Committee on Mental Defectives appointed by Governor Samuel
                                M. Ralston (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916); Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                , Third Report of the Indiana Committee of Mental Defectives (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922).
                        
                            52"Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                . Need of a Program," Folder: Overall Survey Results, Misc.
                                Records, Box 2, Correspondence and Records, CMD, SBC.
                        
                        53Although the term "feebleminded" emerged in the
                            late 1800s, by the 1910s it had gained great currency among eugenicists as a catch-all
                            category for those persons in a "state of permanently arrested mental development
                            at any level below that of adult intelligence." Like other researchers around the
                            country at the time, CMD investigators subdivided the feebleminded into three groups: the
                            high grade or moron, with a 8-12 year old development; the medium
                    
                    
                    
                        A 1918 pedigree chart of a Hoosier family. Field workers for the Committee
                            on Mental Defectives kept these charts on families they had visited. Individuals designated
                            with an "I" were judged insane; those with an "F," feebleminded. Courtesy of the
                            Indiana State Archives
                    
                     the CMD, morons were an insidious menace because their ability
                    to pass, coupled with an inborn lack of inhibition and self-control, enabled them to propagate their
                    defective heredity at rates up to 2.4 times those of normal people.
                The CMD was one of many agencies around the country that fostered the detection of mentally disabled
                    children in the school system and instituted special education programs. Nonetheless, in retrospect,
                    the CMD's survey corpus contains some of the most disturbing examples of Hoosier eugenics.
                    The CMD dispatched field workers to the eleven counties profiled in the official reports and to at
                    least a dozen more. Many of the researchers were professional women who fancied themselves selfless
                    scientific missionaries and arrived at their destinations armed with the eugenic tools of the day:
                    cameras, pedigree charts, hereditary nomenclature, and a reliable formula for chronicling family
                    lineages in an abridged yet melodramatic form.54 The hundreds of family studies
                    gathered by the CMD offer a window onto the devastating social effects and human costs of rural
                    poverty, job scarcity, and haphazard educational access. Strung together, the studies can also be
                    read as a meta-narrative of the anxieties about contamination, disorder, and out-of-control bodies
                    that so engrossed eugenicists and of how they sought to manage these dangers through technical
                    classification, deductive method, and what amounted to derisive caricature.
                Each study revolved around a Patient Zero from whom the sprawling defective family tree was traced,
                    frequently back four or more generations. Although these corrupted pedigrees were usually identified
                    by surname, some researchers colorfully labeled them: "Lily Green Schew and her Five
                    Husbands," "The Dirty Dozen," and "A Bed Accommodating
                    Six." Employing the pedigree charting they had mastered at the Eugenics Record Office, most
                    field workers complemented their narratives with a genetic family tree that featured squares for
                    men, circles for women, and letters to designate undesirable traits or "unit 
                        grade or imbecile, with a 3-7 year old development; and the low grade or idiot, with the
                            development of a baby or toddler. Mental age was determined using a variety of methods, from
                            a subjective eyeball assessment to the administration of intelligence tests. Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                 (1916), 3-4; Mental Defectives in 
                                    Indiana
                                 (1919), 12.
                        54For a superb analysis see Nicole Hahn Rafter, White
                                Trash: The Eugenic Family Studies, 1877- 1919 (
                                Boston
                            , 1988); on women as field workers see Amy Sue Bix, "Experiences and
                            Voices of Eugenics Field-Workers: 'Women's Work' in
                            Biology," Social Studies of Science, 27 (August 1997),
                        625-68.
                    
                     characters" such as "E" for
                    epileptic, "W" for wanderer, "A" for alcoholic,
                    "I" for insane, and "F" for feebleminded.55 In addition to the
                    psychological monikers of the era, the narratives were peppered with derogatory adjectives-ignorant,
                    dirty, unkempt, coarse, dull, grotesque, morose, irresponsible, queer, unstable, lazy, awkward,
                    bewildered, and many more-that constructed the specter of a small but highly dangerous segment who
                    lived on the periphery of society but imperiled the center through reckless breeding, physical and
                    mental abnormalities, costly custodial care, and unhygienic customs.56
                Indeed, one of the studies' most pervasive themes was that mental defectives inhabited a
                    marginal topography of edges, riverbeds, and undomesticated wild lands either unsuited for or
                    unexploited by rational agricultural cultivation. Consider, for instance, the peregrinations of
                    Hazel Hansford, who surveyed one of the counties discussed in the CMD's second report. To
                    find the "Lookout Ridge Population" she had to cross "the roughest of
                    slippery, gullied mud roads"; to reach the "Ripple Creek Group" traverse
                    an area with the "wild, unsettled appearance of a district 20 miles from
                    civilization"; and to arrive at "The Three Moffit Invalids" bushwhack
                    through "a tangle of brush, weeds, and for- est" to ramshackle homes
                    "well hidden from the road."57 Edna Jatho, a prolific field
                    worker who often accompanied Estabrook, described how she spent nearly one year wandering highways
                    and towns scouting for mental defectives who inevitably resided "in the woods about the
                    lakes and in the isolation of river bottoms."58
                The CMD identified the vast majority of these borderline Hoosiers as native-born whites. This might
                    be expected in a state with the highest percentage of native-born whites (92.1 percent) in the
                    nation in 1920.59 To some extent, 
                        Indiana
                     eugenicists applied a logic of racial degeneracy and difference to those they viewed as
                    atavistic, diseased, and incapable of improvement or redemption. Like East Coast eugenicists who
                    target- 
                        55"The Heredity Registration," Baumbarger File, Box
                            3, County Surveys, CMD, BSC.
                        56Adjectives extracted from files in Boxes 1, 3, and 6, County
                            Surveys, CMD, BSC.
                        57"Hazel Irene Hansford, "A Social Study of Mental
                            Defectives in County H., 
                                Indiana
                            , in 1918," Indiana University Studies 10 (1923),
                            Study No. 59, quotes from 23, 60, 72.
                        58Edna R. Jatho, "Feeblemindedness-The Problem-Conditions in
                            Indiana," Edna Jatho Folder, Miscellaneous Reports, Box 2, Reports and
                            Correspondence, CMD, BSC.
                        59"Philips, 
                                    Indiana
                                 in Transition, 369-70. The 1920 census counted 5 percent of Hoosiers
                            as foreign-born and just below 3 percent as African American.
                    
                     ed Italian and Polish immigrants and West Coast eugenicists who
                    demonized Mexican and Chinese immigrants, Hoosier eugenicists branded destitute white southerners as
                    the state's most serious biological hazard.60 Yet 
                        Indiana's
                     experience also suggests that histories of American eugenics, which tend to equate the
                    crusade against mental defectiveness with anti-immigrant sentiment and scientific racism, have
                    underplayed the role of eugenics in policing class boundaries among whites.61 In
                    racially homogenous 
                        Indiana
                    , eugenicists demarcated difference by dividing northerner from southerner, employed
                    from unemployed, financially independent from dependent on state resources, schooled from
                    unschooled, sound from unsound, and ordered from disordered. For example, Hansford categorized the
                    "Lookout Ridge Population" as "poor white trash of the South"
                    and Estabrook noted that one of the most degraded districts was precisely where the
                    "migration of 
                        Kentucky
                     whites'" had been heavy in recent years. The family study
                    "Kentucky Hill-Folk in 
                        Indiana
                    " documented the pitiful conditions of 12 siblings festering in
                    "poverty and filthy confusion."62 This negative judgment was
                    sharply aimed at southerly tri-state 
                        Switzerland County
                     where "old families 'gone to seed'" were worsened
                    by a "steady influx of 'poor whites' from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    ."63 The CMD reported that the highest proportion of mental
                    defectives in state institutions hailed from 
                        Switzerland County
                     and bemoaned the biological and economic costs of its denizens.64
                    One researcher wrote that the breeding of 
                        Switzerland's
                     Beatty-Calvert family "should have been cut off many years ago,"
                    another that the "Shannon" clan "should be prevented from reproduction of
                    their own low grade of mentality," and another that Virgil Simpson had "cost the
                    State of 
                        Indiana
                     $4,075.00, in actual money, in costs of arrests, trials, and poor asylum, insane
                    hospital and prison care."65
                
                    60See, for example, Stern, Eugenic Nation; and Alan M.
                        Kraut, Silent Travelers: Germs, Genes, and the "Immigrant
                        Menace" (
                            New York
                        , 1994).
                    61Similar class policing occurred in parts of the South. See Edward J.
                        Larson, Sex, Race, and Science: Eugenics in the Deep South (
                            Baltimore
                        , 
                            Md
                        ., 1995).
                    62Hansford, "A Social Study of Mental Defectives," 23;
                        Estabrook, "The Work of the 
                            Indiana
                         Committee"; "Kentucky Hill-Folk in 
                            Indiana
                        ," Box 1, County Surveys, CMD, BSC.
                    63" 'C County," Box 6, County Surveys, CMD,
                        BSC.
                    64Mental Defectives in 
                                Indiana
                             (1919), 16.
                    65See "Beatty-Calvert," "Shannon," and
                        "Virgil Simpson," Box 6, County Surveys, CMD, BSC.
                
                
                
                    Dr. Ada Schweitzer with Better Babies contestants at the 1929 Indiana State
                        Fair Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                
                Notwithstanding these pronouncements in the field reports, in official documents Butler and the CMD
                    recommended that feeblemindedness be combated with long-term segregation rather than sterilization,
                    even though such sentiments stood at odds with the laments about the public expense of years, if not
                    decades, of institutionalization. The CMD never had the chance to resolve this contradiction.
                    Despite a spirited lobbying effort, the legislature and a new governor were not persuaded to renew
                    the CMD's appropriation and the committee's last meeting occurred in November
                        1924.66 Nevertheless, as the CMD's work was coming to a close, a
                    different permutation of Hoosier eugenics, involving not the mentally defective but the potentially
                    perfectible, was gaining ground under the aegis of the Division of Infant and Child Hygiene.
                
                    660sgood, "The Menace of the Feebleminded," 276.
                
                
                BREEDING BETTER BABIES
                Following in the footsteps of her mentor Hurty, Dr. Ada E. Schweitzer, a loyal employee of the
                    Indiana State Board of Health (ISBH), put the intertwined tenets of public health and human
                    betterment into action at the Indiana State Fair. For 12 years she orchestrated one of the most
                    popular attractions on the fairgrounds: the better babies contest.67 First hired
                    by Hurty in 1906 to serve as assistant bacteriologist at the state laboratory, Schweitzer worked her
                    way up the ranks at the ISBH by carving out a niche in maternal and infant hygiene. Initially
                    focused on pediatric infectious diseases, in the 1910s Schweitzer broadened her intellectual scope,
                    becoming versed in the evolving specialty of children's health. She collaborated on several
                    projects with the United States Children's Bureau, realized a survey of infant mortality in 
                        Gary
                    , and chaired the 
                        Indiana
                     branch of the American Association for the Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality.
                    When Hurty received word in 1919 that the legislature at last had approved his request to launch the
                    Division of Infant and Child Hygiene (DICH) and earmarked $10,000 in start-up funds, he immediately
                    contacted Schweitzer, who gladly consented to head up the new division.
                For 14 years, until she was ousted from the DICH in a political shake-up in 1933, Schweitzer
                    diligently worked to lower infant and maternal death rates and to convince Indianans of the
                    importance of scientific motherhood and child rearing. She lectured to hundreds of neighborhood and
                    civic groups, wrote voluminous articles and poems, and assessed the physical condition of babies in
                    every one of the state's 92 counties. In addition, Schweitzer organized mothers'
                    classes in which she taught pregnant women the fundamentals of prenatal and baby care. In 1925,
                    16,649 women took these classes.68 The following year, the division's
                    operating funds reached $60,000, largely due to the federal Sheppard-Towner Act, passed in 1921,
                    which provided states with matching funds for infant and mental welfare.69
                    During its height the 
                        6For a longer discussion see Alexandra Minna Stern, "Better
                            Babies Contests at the Indiana State Fair: Child Health, Scientific Motherhood, and Eugenics
                            in the Midwest, 1920-35," in Formative Years: Children's
                                Health in the United States, 1880-2000, eds. Stern and Howard Markel (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 
                                Mich.
                            , 2004), 121-52.
                        68"
                                Indiana's
                             Work under the Maternity and Infancy Law during 1925," Monthly Bulletin of the ISBH, 29 (1926), 136-38.
                        69Richard A. Meckel, Save the Babies: American Public
                                Health Reform and the Prevention of Infant Mortality, 1850-1929 (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 
                                Mich.
                            , 1998).
                    
                     division counted 20 full-time and temporary employees. By 1929,
                    it had examined 77,584 children, registered 55,171 mothers in instructional classes, shown health
                    films to 606,364 viewers, and distributed 1,216,577 pamphlets.70
                Schweitzer delivered a two-pronged message of better babies through improved rearing and superior
                    breeding. Like Hurty, Schweitzer viewed public health and human betterment as overlapping endeavors
                    that strove to build up "a sturdy and efficient race."71
                    Schweitzer strongly backed the right of the state to restrict procreation and marriage, an opinion
                    she aired in person and in print. She implored Hoosiers to reproduce responsibly and with the ideals
                    of fitness in mind, maintaining that the "gates of heredity" irrevocably closed
                    after the baby left the womb. From that moment on the "training and perfection of
                    Indiana's greatest resource-the baby" rested in the hands of parents, who could
                    greatly enhance their children's health and constitution.72
                    Nevertheless, Schweitzer expected her constituents to be realistic about what they could accomplish
                    with their kith and kin. Responding to a letter from a 
                        Muncie
                     reformer who wanted to hold a "Better Babies" week in her town,
                    Schweitzer soberly advised "it is certainly true we cannot make a silk purse out of a
                    sow's ear, neither can we make a citizen out of an idiot or any person who is not well
                        born."73
                Schweitzer's philosophy was well-suited to 1920s 
                        Indiana
                    . Her babies contests made sense to Hoosiers because they mobilized concepts of better
                    stock that were familiar to farmers, many of whom belonged to a growing roster of breeders'
                    associations and raised purebred hogs, cattle, and sheep.74 As Schweitzer
                    explained in a 1926 review of the contests' many accomplishments, "the progressive
                    farmer who had insisted on healthy well bred animals and who had carefully fed balanced 
                        70"A Survey of Ten Years' Child Hygiene Work in 
                                Indiana
                            ," Monthly Bulletin of the ISBH, 32 (1929), 173-74.
                        71Ada E. Schweitzer, "The Menace of the Mental Defective to
                            Public Health," presented at 1917 Indiana Conference on Mental Health, Folder 8,
                            Box 1, Papers of the Indiana Society for Mental Hygiene (ISMH), BSC.
                        72Ada E. Schweitzer, "
                                Indiana
                             Better Babies," Better Babies Publicity 1926 Folder, Division of
                            Infant and Child Hygiene (DICH), Indiana State Archives. These papers are being
                            re-catalogued and it is possible that this folder name is no longer valid.
                        73Ada E. Schweitzer to Mr. George B. Lockwood, March 20, 1916, DICH.
                        74Phillips, 
                                    Indiana
                                 in Transition, 166-67.
                    
                     rations, began to see that the integrity and health of the human
                    family depended on the same general principles."75 With its long
                    tradition of championship ribbons, the State Fair was the ideal venue for the contests.76 More broadly, the underlying prejudices of the contests, which excluded
                    African American and immigrant infants and tacitly endorsed the cult of native-born white
                    superiority, resonated in a state where one-quarter to one-third of all Hoosiers belonged to the Ku
                    Klux Klan in the 1920s.77 An organization concerned to promote its version of
                    the whole-some 100% American family, the Ku Klux Klan launched morality crusades and anti-vice
                    campaigns and sometimes carried out violence against its perceived enemies, who included blacks,
                    Jews, Catholics, adulterers, bootleggers, and anyone else who threatened purity and chastity. In
                    part because of the centrality of the family to the Klan, women played an integral part in the
                    "Invisible Empire," championing the virtues of motherhood and traditional notions
                    of masculinity and femininity.78 Indeed, Elizabeth Tyler, who helped to
                    resurrect the Klan in the late 1910s, started her career in the social hygiene movement, by visiting
                    tenement homes in the South to teach mothers about "better babies" and scientific
                    child rearing.79 While there is no evidence that Schweitzer was a member of the
                    Klan, the attraction of the better babies contests to hundreds of thousands of ordinary Hoosiers,
                    especially women, cannot be understood outside the racial, social, and political context of the
                    decade.
                Putting the principles of scientific management to work, Schweitzer ran the crowded and popular
                    contests like an efficient assembly line. Before the event, infants were separated into groups based
                    on age (12-24 months or 24-36 months), sex, and place of residence. Those categorized as city babies
                    lived in places with 10,000 inhabitants or more, and those remaining were rural entrants. Once their
                    children were registered, par- 
                        75Ada E. Schweitzer, "
                                Indiana
                             Better Babies," September 1926, DICH.
                        76Paul Miner, 
                                    Indiana's
                                 Best! An Illustrated Celebration of the Indiana State Fairgrounds, 1852-
                                1992 (
                                 Indianapolis
                            , 1992).
                        77Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in 
                                    Indiana
                                , 1921-1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N. C.
                            , 1991), 7.
                        78Kathleen M. Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism and Gender
                                in the 1920s (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 1991); and Nancy MacLean, Behind the Mask of Chivalry: The Making
                                of the Second Ku Klux Klan (
                                New York
                            , 1994).
                        79Blee, Women of the Klan, 20.
                    
                    
                    
                        Indiana State Fair Better Baby contest scorecard The contests eugenically
                            based standards were developed from middle-class white children, with predictable
                            results. Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                    
                     ents-usually mothers-came to the contest building at a
                    designated time. As the mothers entered the building they handed their enrollment form to an
                    attendant, who recorded their names. Then the baby was whisked to the next booth, where its overall
                    health history was taken by a nurse. Mental tests designed for each age group followed, as
                    psychologists observed if infants could stand, walk, speak, how they manipulated blocks and balls,
                    and responded to questions such as "How does the doggie do?" and "Who is
                    the baby in the mirror?"80 Mental tests completed, the babies were then
                    undressed and their clothes placed in a paper bag and tagged. Identically robed in shaker flannel
                    togas, each toddler was now weighed and measured. From here the baby was examined by an optometrist,
                    a pediatrician, and an otolaryngologist, then weighed and measured a second time, and lastly,
                    presented with a bronze medal on a blue ribbon, courtesy of the Indianapolis News.
                    Scores were calculated along the way. Starting with 1000, points were subtracted for an array of
                    physical defects including unevenness of the head, scaly skin, ill deportment, delayed teething,
                    abnormal ear size or shape, or enlarged glands. Slow reactions to the mental tests or perceived lack
                    of muscular coordination lowered a child's score, as did deviations from the national
                    standards for height and weight (based on age) and weight-to-height ratio. Tabulated results from
                    the contests indicate that Schweitzer instructed her team to deduct mere fractions for each defect,
                    most likely to maintain results near 1000 for every baby and thereby dilute any competitive
                    antagonism among the parents. The best baby generally scored over 990, such as Alma Louise
                    Strohmeyer, the one-year-old 
                        Indianapolis
                     girl who triumphed with 999.92813 points in 1923.81
                Although held for a relatively short span of time, the better babies contests, and more broadly, the
                    work of the DICH, coincided with improving health indicators for Hoosier children. For example, in
                    keeping with national trends, 
                        Indiana's
                     infant mortality dropped by one-third during the contest decade, from 8.2 percent in
                    1920 to 5.7 percent in 1930.82 According to Schweitzer, the DICH's work
                    helped to decrease the 
                        80"Proud Relatives Watch Better Babies Examined at
                            Fair," 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, September 5, 1927, p. 17; "Mothers and Babies on Hand
                            Early at State Fair Contest," Indianapolis News, September 3,
                            1923, p. 1.
                        81Alma Louise Strohmeyer Best Baby Entered in State Contest,"
                                Indianapolis News, September 10, 1923, p. 1.
                        82Madison, 
                                    Indiana
                                 through Tradition and Change, 322.
                    
                     percentage of underweight babies entered into the contests a
                    noteworthy 8 percent from 1920 to 1929.83 Yet many of the Hoosiers who profited
                    from the DICH's campaigns already occupied a fairly privileged place, far removed from the
                    impecunious and disheveled universe of the "mental defectives." The contests
                    rewarded those with the time and resources to take part in this alluring annual event. Furthermore,
                    they prized soap-scrubbed cleanliness, unblemished skin, and well-proportioned physiognomy.
                    Inevitably, the infants who most closely conformed to the norms embedded in the scorecards-derived
                    from white, middle-class newborns and toddlers-triumphed.84 Finally, despite the
                    veneer of egalitarian fair play, the contests reflected and reinforced deep-seated racial and class
                    exclusions and accentuated the disquieting fact that only plump white babies could achieve
                    perfection and symbolize the Hoosier state.
                FOR THE WELFARE OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND SOCIETY
                Q: Do you want that operation performed?
                A: No.
                Q: Do you want to go home?
                A: Yes.
                Q: Would you like to have this operation so you can go home?
                A: Yes, I'll take anything to get home.
                This exchange transpired between a 28-year-old female inmate and the superintendent of the Fort Wayne
                    State School at the board of trustees' monthly meeting in May 1943.85
                    Almost certainly, this woman's conditional consent resulted in her sterilization within 30
                    days, followed by her placement on furlough with a relative or in a menial domestic job. Given the
                    spottiness of case files housed in the Indiana State Archives and the strict confidentiality
                    guidelines for patient records mandated by the 1996 federal Health Insurance Portability and
                    Accountability Act (HIPAA), it is unlikely that we will ever learn more 
                        83Schweitzer, "Better and Better Babies," DICH.
                        84See Jeffrey P Brosco, "Weight Charts and Well Child Care:
                            When the Pediatrician became the Expert in Child Health," in Formative
                                Years, eds. Stern and Markel, 91-120.
                        85Minutes of May 4, 1943, Fort Wayne State School, Board of Trustees,
                            Minutes, 1931-1947, Indiana State Archives.
                     about this young woman-what led to her commitment, how
                    long she spent in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     before her sterilization hearing, and how she fared upon release. Nevertheless, extant
                    sources, including meeting minutes, annual reports, clinical studies, and a smattering of patient
                    files, can illuminate the experiences of Hoosiers held at the two state institutions for the
                    feebleminded-the Fort Wayne State School (founded 1879) and the Muscatatuck Colony (founded
                    1920)-during the middle decades of the twentieth century.
                Between 1927 and 1974 approximately 2,000 inmates in 
                        Indiana's
                     state institutions for the feebleminded, insane, epileptic, and delinquent were
                        sterilized.86 The vast majority of these operations, about 1,800, were
                    performed at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the remainder, in decreasing order, at the Muscatatuck Colony, the Logansport
                    State Hospital for the insane, and the Indiana Girls' School. The statutory basis for these
                    operations was the 1927 sterilization act and several subsequent amendments that Indiana legislators
                    designed carefully to preclude the censure that doomed the 1907 law.
                In the 1920s eugenics was thriving in the Hoosier heartland. At the decade's outset the CMD
                    was preparing its third report and at its close the better babies contests were so much the rage
                    that entrants had to be turned away. In 1928 the Indiana State Committee of the American Eugenics
                    Society counted over one dozen members, including many of the superintendents of state institutions
                    as well as Butler, Rice, and 
                        86I derived the figure of 2,000 by adding up the 1,576 sterilizations
                            reported by the Indiana Department of Mental Health for the period 1936 to 1962, the 308
                            operations listed in the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             annual reports for the fiscal years 1927-1928 to 1935-1936 (as compiled by
                            Vicki Casteel), the 144 sterilization orders approved by the Muscatatuck Board of Trustees
                            from 1937 to 1953, the 35 sterilizations listed in the Logansport annual reports from 1931
                            to 1943 (when they appear to end), the 7 salpingectomies listed in the Indiana
                            Girls' School annual reports from 1927 to 1933, and several redacted 
                                Fort Wayne
                             patient records listing sterilizations dated 1933 to 1975. Although the total
                            comes to 2,072, I use the more conservative estimate of 2,000 because some of the
                            Muscatatuck inmates were transferred to 
                                Fort Wayne
                             for sterilization and it is unclear how these operations were counted. During
                            the same period, sterilizations were not reported in the annual reports of 
                                Indiana's
                             other insane hospitals or the Village for Epileptics, and further research is
                            needed to determine if unreported sterilizations occurred in those facilities. See
                            "Eugenic Sterilization in Indiana"; Fort Wayne State School
                                Annual Reports, 1927-1952 (
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Logansport State Hospital Annual Reports, 1931-1943 (Fort
                            Wayne); Indiana Girls' School Annual Reports, 1927-1933
                            (Indianapolis); Muscatatuck Colony for the Feebleminded, Board of Trustees, Minutes,
                            1937-1953; and assorted redacted Fort Wayne State Hospital and Training Center Face Sheets,
                            Indiana State Archives.
                    
                     Hurty's successor as secretary of the ISBH, Dr. William
                    E King.87 In 1925, one of the members of the Indiana State Eugenics Committee,
                    C. O. Holmes, state senator from Gary, took advantage of this atmosphere to introduce a novel
                    eugenics bill. The main goal of this proposed "Eugenical Sterilization Law" was to
                    halt the procreation of "certain potential parents carrying degenerate hereditary
                    qualities," a task to be entrusted to an official state eugenicist who would submit
                    sterilization petitions after identifying defectives in the general and institutional
                        populations.88 Despite requiring notification of the next of kin, mandating
                    a court hearing to approve the state eugenicist's recommendation, and forbidding risky
                    abdominal surgery, the bill died one month after its introduction.89 The senate
                    discussion of this bill suggests that its overarching provisions, which entailed a hitherto unknown
                    degree of state intrusion and untold implementation costs, disconcerted 
                        Indiana
                     legislators.90
                Although the 1925 bill was postponed indefinitely, its objective of the compulsory sterilization of
                    custodial inmates was adopted two years later. The 1927 act, the cornerstone of Indiana's
                    era of unfettered sterilization, pertained exclusively to institutions for the feebleminded, insane,
                    and epileptic. It was approved the same year that the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a similar 
                        Virginia
                     statute in the well-known Buck v. Bell decision.91 With the imprimatur of the highest court in the land and now written to
                    stress the preventive health benefits of protecting the populace from the ills of defective
                    heredity, sterilization laws resurged in the 
                        United States
                    . By 1932, 27 states had acts on the books.92
                    
                        Indiana's
                     law was typical of the time, even though its implementation diverged somewhat from
                    national patterns.
                The 1927 act delineated a two-stage procedure by which the superintendent presented a petition to the
                    institutional governing board, scheduled a hearing to validate the request, and served copies of the
                    peti- 
                        87List of Indiana State Committee members, July 23, 1928, H. A.
                            Crossland Folder, AES, 575.06 Am3.
                        88Engrossed State Bill No. 86, February 9, 1925, SF.
                        89Excerpts from Journal of the Indiana State Senate, 74th
                                Session of the Assembly (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), SF.
                        90Lantzer, "A Very Progressive Reform."
                        91Paul A. Lombardo, "Three Generations, No Imbeciles: New
                            Light on Buck v Bell," New York University Law
                                Review, 60 (April 1985), 30-62.
                        92Reilly, The Surgical Solution, 97-101.
                    
                     tion on the inmate and next of kin with at least 30 days
                    anticipation, followed by a board hearing with the inmate and sometimes a relative present for the
                    official approbation. Shielding themselves against the weaknesses of the 1907 and related acts
                    overturned in state courts, the crafters of this legislation inserted sections that allowed for a
                    right to appeal the decision to the circuit court (and in the next instance, the Indiana Supreme
                    Court), clarified that this law could not be construed to permit castration or organ removal, and
                    immunized all authorities involved in legal and surgical proceedings from civil or criminal
                        liability.93 Furthermore, although the law seemingly vested the
                    superintendent with the acting authority to pursue sterilization, it granted the institutional board
                    the power to order, in the face of dissent, the sterilization of any inmate found "by the
                    laws of heredity" to be a "probably potential parent of socially inadequate
                        offspring."94 In practice, this translated into board hearings
                    where the institutional physician certified that the welfare of an inmate and "of society
                    will be promoted by such sterilization."95
                In two subsequent amendments to the law, passed in 1931 and 1933, this authority was also conferred
                    to the domain of the county court, empowering the judge and two testifying physicians to mandate
                    sterilization at the inquests of the feebleminded and insane. Thus, the second "
                        Indiana
                     Plan" allowed both the committing county court and the institutional board to
                    sanction sterilization. According to Dr. L. Potter Harshman, who served as Fort Wayne State
                    School's psychiatrist at the time and regularly testified at board hearings, flexibility
                    characterized this dual system. Speaking before an audience of his colleagues in the American
                    Society for Mental Deficiency, Harshman admitted that "perhaps this convenient arrangement
                    has the proportions of being a little too wholesale in the minds of most of you" but
                    justified the policy as "progressive" because it enabled more defectives to be
                    released into home care.96
                In the 1930s the economic strains of the Great Depression stimulated state institutions to enact
                    cost-saving initiatives to reduce over- 
                        93"Eugenic Sterilization in 
                                Indiana
                            " notes inconsistent interpretations of criminal immunity.
                        94"An Act to provide for the sexual sterilization of
                            inmates" (1927), SF.
                        95Fort Wayne State School, Board of Trustees, Minutes, 1931-1947, ISA.
                        96L. Potter Harshman, "Medical and Legal Aspects of
                            Sterilization in Indiana," Journal of Psycho-Asthenics, 39 (June
                            1933-June 1934), 189.
                    
                     crowding and more rapidly parole inmates. Such financial
                    pressures pushed the Fort Wayne State School to make sterilization a prerequisite for release, a
                    policy that began in earnest in 1932 and virtually ensured a stable rate of surgeries. Thus, from
                    1931 to 1957 a mean of 57 inmates were sterilized each year at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Operations peaked in the fiscal year 1945-1946 with 157 operations, affecting nearly
                    10 percent of the average annual population of 1,680.97
                A close analysis of 534 board hearings transcribed in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     minute books from 1931 to 1955 provides some insight into 
                         Indiana's
                     sterilization patterns. First, this data set corroborates that gender parity
                    characterized the 1,500 operations performed in all 
                         Indiana
                     institutions between 1930 and 1960, with an almost 50/50 split between men (265) and
                    women (269). Notably, 
                         Indiana's
                     gender parity contrasts with other states where, by the late 1930s, significantly more
                    women were undergoing operations. Second, although the mean age of sterilization was 24, minors made
                    up a high proportion of those sterilized. Indeed, the largest single age group (out of a 7-to-50 age
                    range) was sixteen-year-olds, 34 of whom appeared at sterilization hearings, followed in short order
                    by 33 seventeen-and 33 eighteen-year-olds. 
                         Indiana
                     was also unusual in this regard, at least as compared to 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        California
                    , both of which reported comparatively lower rates of repro- ductive surgery on those
                    under twenty.98 This suggests that there might be a link between gender parity
                    and the disproportionate sterilization of minors, especially if eugenic sterilization is understood
                    as a form of medical paternalism enacted by health authorities on specific groups in their and
                    society's "best interest." If medical paternalism was directed at adult
                    women portrayed as biologically burdened reckless breeders and bad mothers in 
                        California
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 
                        Indiana
                     it was also aimed at adolescents and children housed in institutions like the Fort
                    Wayne State School.99 Lastly, this data set shows that sterilization hearings
                    continued at a steady rate into the 1950s, with the most (69) taking 
                        97Ibid.
                        98L. Potter Harshman, "Sterilization before the Sixteenth
                            Year," American Journal of Mental Deficiency, 46 (1941-1942),
                            542-47.
                        99On medical paternalism and the sexual and reproductive control of
                            women through sterilization in 
                                California
                             and 
                                North Carolina
                             see Wendy Kline, Building a Better Race: Gender Sexuality, and
                                Eugenics from the Turn of the Century to the Baby Boom (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif
                            ., 2001) and Schoen, Choice and Coercion.
                    
                     place in 1954, when three comprehensive hearings (with 22, 31,
                    and 16 inmates) occurred. Indeed, operations did not markedly decline until the fiscal year
                    1957-1958, when there was a change in the administration of the state's mental health
                    department, which was given jurisdiction over most aspects of sterilization proceedings in a 1951
                        amendment.100 This pattern is in keeping with national trends, as operations
                    peaked in the late 1930s and 1940s but did not substantially subside, and in fact increased in
                    several states, in the 1950s and 1960s.101 Nevertheless, the rationale for
                    sterilizations changed from the 1930s to the 1960s, shifting from the need to impede the propagation
                    of the hereditarily defective to a greater concern with bad parenting and the dysfunction of poor or
                    welfare families.102 Whatever the reasoning, however, until the 1970s decade of
                    repeal, sterilizations across the country were performed based on eugenic statutes.
                While verbal consent was not technically required of inmates (since the board could overrule any
                    objections), a central component of the sterilization hearing involved an attempt to procure consent
                    or some recognition, even if minimal, that the inmate understood the procedure's
                    consequences. The Fort Wayne board minutes and a handful of county court inquests indicate that the
                    authorities believed it was imperative for the inmate to physically appear and speak before the
                    adjudicating body and for a written record, proving the proper execution of policies, to be
                    transcribed. To a great extent, the scripted interaction at the hearings amounted to an unnecessary
                    pretense. Yet given previous experience, it behooved 
                        Fort Wayne
                     officials to insulate themselves from any possible legal entanglement that might
                    jeopardize the institution's operations. Thus, in the few instances (8 out of 534) in which
                    inmates verbally denied consent, the board erred on the side of caution and placed these cases in
                    abeyance.
                The great majority (364 or 69.2 percent) of the 534 inmates verbally communicated affirmative
                    consent. However, as George Tarjan, the thoughtful long-serving superintendent of the Pacific State
                    Hospital in 
                        California
                    , noted in 1973, retrospectively evaluating the consent of 
                        100"Eugenic Sterilization in 
                                Indiana
                            ," 281; Lantzer, "A Very Progressive Reform."
                        101Stern, Eugenic Nation, chap. 3.
                        102Rickie Solinger, Pregnancy and Power: A Short History
                                of Reproductive Politics in
                                    America
                                 (
                                New York
                            , 2006), chaps. 3 and 4.
                    
                    
                    
                        A redacted sterilization order from the Muscatatuck State Hospital
                            Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                     patients in facilities for the mentally retarded is an
                    exercise riddled with problems. On one hand, some inmates were interned primarily for sexual
                    behavior considered inappropriate and only secondarily for a mental condition. In institutions
                    around the country, sterilization was regularly employed as a tool of sexual or reproductive
                    management, as young women categorized as licentious or men diagnosed as sodomites underwent
                    operations based on a mixture of therapeutic and eugenic rationales.103 For
                    example, in the early 1940s, the "rather attractive" but "emotionally
                    unstable" E. A. was committed multiple times to the Muscatatuck Colony because of her low
                    I.Q. (61), the fact she had "invited men to come into her room," and because after
                    one escape she was found to be suffering from gonorrhea. The petition paperwork shows that E. A.,
                    who had 16 siblings including a sister with a child born out of wedlock, was sterilized, at age 19,
                    in August 1942 at the Indiana University Medical Center based on a Bartholomew County court
                        inquest.104 It is plausible that patients like E. A., many of whom conversed
                    lucidly in the board hearings, were plainly aware that sterilization was their sole release ticket
                    and simply assented to the operation. These individuals were probably among the small but
                    significant portion (44 or 8.1 percent) that gave conditional consent, expressing a clear
                    understanding of the parole policy, like the woman above who stated "Yes, I'll
                    take anything to get home." On the other hand, for the most vulnerable inmates, including
                    minors as well as those whom today we might consider severely mentally disabled, the consent process
                    at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was very suspect. Based on his 25 years of experience in 
                        California
                    , Tarjan observed that "retarded persons, particularly children, have also been
                    noted to be highly suggestible. I have no doubt that an authoritative figure could readily influence
                    a retarded adolescent to follow any suggested course of action, including sterilization. These facts
                    cast further doubt on the propriety of taking the consent of an adolescent retarded person at face
                        value."105
                
                    103Kline, Building a Better Race; Braslow, Mental Ills and Bodily Cures; and Peter Boag, Same-Sex Affairs:
                            Constructing and Controlling Homosexuality in the Pacific Northwest (
                            Berkeley
                        , 
                            Calif.
                        , 2003).
                    104Patient File of A.E., 1942, Muscatatuck Patient Records, Indiana State
                        Archives.
                    105George Tarjan, "Some Thoughts on Sterilization," in
                            Eugenic Sterilization, ed. Jonas Robitscher (
                            Springfield
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        , 1973), 17-24.
                
                
                Compounding the dubious validity of "consent," the board hearings also reveal that
                    118 inmates, or 22.4 percent, failed to respond to or were not asked a consent question. There was a
                    strong statistical association between age and consent type: the younger the person the greater the
                    probability that he or she was in the category of those who were neither asked nor answered a
                    consent question. For example, 43 or 41.7 percent of those in the 7-16 age bracket fell into this
                    group, twice the percentage of the next closest age bracket of 17-21.106 The
                    entirety of a 1937 exchange between the superintendent and an 11-year-old boy captures this pattern:
                
                    Q: What is your name?
                    A: R. M.
                    Q: Where do you live?
                    A: Indianapolis.
                    Q: Do you know about this operation?
                    A: No.
                
                Other times, young inmates were asked nothing about sterilization but rather about their chores at
                    the institution or if they liked the custodial staff; some remained completely silent during the
                    hearing, asked absolutely nothing at all. For a handful, a slight nod of head was recorded in the
                    minutes as proof of consent. Preliminarily, these findings imply that even as it enforced 
                        Indiana's
                     sterilization act in a manner similar to other institutions around the country, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     stood out for its egregious violation of the rights and bodies of minors, some of whose
                    parents agreed to the operation or participated in the decision-making and others who faced the
                    board hearing all by themselves.
                
                        Indiana's
                     1927 sterilization law, which was amended several times over the years but remained the
                    principal legal foundation for compul- sory reproductive surgery in state institutions, was not
                    repealed until 1974. During the mid-1970s a sea change in attitudes about rightful
                    institutionalization and patient autonomy took place in the 
                        United States
                    . This was a time of public outcry over the revelation that the U. S. Public Health
                    Service had conducted unethical and harmful syphilis experiments on poor rural blacks in 
                        Macon County
                    , 
                        Alabama
                    , for over forty years. Like legislators in other states, Indiana lawmakers, many of
                        
                        106This statistical association is demonstrated by an age group (7-16,
                            17-21, 22-30, 31-40, 41-50)/consent type cross-tabulation and a chi-squared test where P
                            < .5.
                    
                     whom were stunned to realize that sterilizations were still
                    performed sporadically, decided that it was high time to purge what they now saw as antiquated and
                    biased laws. Looking back at the repeal from the van- tage point of 2006, one of the sponsoring
                    senators wrote that "it was still amazing that sterilization could be considered as
                    treatment in the best interests of an individual or society."107
                FROM THE EUGENIC PAST TO THE GENOMIC FUTURE
                Even though 
                        Indiana
                     passed the first sterilization law in the nation and its demographic profile of extreme
                    racial homogeneity set it apart, Hoosier eugenics moved in tandem with other states. Across the
                    country from 1900 to 1960, states passed eugenic laws, held better babies contests at county and
                    state fairs, sent researchers to crowded urban areas or remote rural hamlets to produce family
                    studies, and authorized the sterilization of the "mentally defective" in public
                    homes and hospitals. Like their counterparts in other regions, Hoosier eugenicists gravitated toward
                    biological theories and models to provide simple explanations of the complex and disruptive social
                    changes that accompanied modernization, urbanization, and industrialization. Especially during the
                    Progressive Era, Hoosier physicians, educators, and clergymen involved in public health or social
                    reform found an easy affinity with eugenics. Indeed, for many, embracing eugenics was part and
                    parcel of claiming professional authority during a period in which science and efficiency were the
                    watchwords of progress.
                Along this vein, 
                        Indiana's
                     history offers a poignant example of how eugenics could serve as a professionalization
                    path for white middle-class women. In the early twentieth century, many educated white women found
                    careers in the human sciences and social sciences that afforded them newfound freedom. It was
                    particularly acceptable for female professionals to dedicate themselves to fields concerned with the
                    well-being of children and the betterment of families. In 
                        Indiana
                    , some white middle-class women, like Schweitzer, became child doctors, and others, like
                    Jatho and Hansford of the Committee on Mental Defectives, field workers or psychologists. These
                    women shared a desire for professional 
                        107Quoted in Lantzer, "A Very Progressive
                        Reform.'
                    
                     autonomy and a humanitarian urge to help the downtrodden.
                    Paradoxically, even as female eugenicists faced gender discrimination and a glass ceiling within
                    their profession, their own achievements usually entailed the denigration and dehumanization of a
                    long list of "others," including racial minorities, immigrant mothers, poor
                    whites, and the physically and mentally disabled.108 That their pronouncements,
                    couched in the language of scientific objectivity, often bordered on accusations of uncontrolled
                    breeding, irresponsible parenting, or failed womanhood only underscored the precious line between
                    "fit" and "unfit" that female eugenicists constructed around
                    their professional identity.109
                Although the most vitriolic aspects of American eugenics were waning by the 1930s and scientists and
                    social scientists were condemning scientific racism by the 1940s, hereditarian thinking did not
                    disappear after World War II.110 In some cases, earlier eugenic policies, like
                    sterilization laws, remained in place. At the same time, eugenic ideas were incorporated into the
                    emergent areas of family planning and population control and, to some degree, into human and
                    clinical genetics. 
                        Indiana's
                     history is also instructive to understanding the postwar period. The fact that overt
                    racism was never central to Hoosier eugenics allowed it to transition comfortably into the
                    ubiquitous pronatalism of the "baby boom" years. After World War II, Rice conveyed
                    his message of proper mating and marriage in a series of sex-education pamphlets with titles such as
                    "How Life Goes On and On" and "Those First Sex Questions" that
                    included photographs of smiling white families composed of a breadwinning husband, an aproned
                    housewife, a son riding a bike, and a daughter at the sewing machine.111 Yet, in
                    the same years as Rice was writing these pamphlets and expressing his Ozzie and Harriet eugenic
                    viewpoint as editor of the Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health,
                    the sterilization rate at the Fort Wayne State School was on the rise. By the 1940s, sterilization
                    had become a pro forma administrative procedure required for a patient's
                    release, the larger therapeutic or social 
                        108Katrina Irving, Immigrant Mothers: Narratives of Race
                                and Maternity, 1890-1925 (
                                Urbana
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 2000); and Alison Berg, Mothering the Race: Women's
                                Narratives of Reproduction, 1890-1930 (
                                Urbana
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 2002).
                        109Louise Michele Newman, White Women's Rights:
                                The Racial Origins of Feminism in the 
                                    United States
                                 (
                                New York
                            , 1999).
                        110Stern, Eugenic Nation, introduction.
                        111Five pamphlets contained in Thurman B. Rice, Sex
                                Education (
                                Chicago
                            , 1948).
                    
                     value of which was never seriously broached. As in other states,
                    Hoosier legislators did not recognize the sterilization statute as anathema to civil and patient
                    rights until the 1970s.112
                Reaching the century mark since the passage of the state's milestone sterilization act
                    offers a moment to consider the incorporation of eugenics-a vital dimension of legal, social, and
                    medical history-into a richer and perhaps less comforting understanding of modern 
                        Indiana
                    . In a state committed to "freedom from discrimination and undue
                    anxiety" in matters related to genetic counseling, newborn screening, and the treatment of
                    birth defects, the historical workings and residual effects of eugenic policies and practices merit
                    further historical research and recognition.113
                
                    112Stern, Eugenic Nation, chap. 6.
                    113Indiana Genetic Advisory Committee, "Mission
                        Statement," accessed online at http://www.in.gov/isdh/programs/genomics/mission.htm on
                        August 10, 2006.
                
            
            
            
                Creating a Jewish American Identity in 
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Jewish Welfare Federation and the Regulation of Leisure, 1920-1934
                RICHARD MOSS
                In March 1925, leaders of the Jewish Welfare Federation of Indianapolis (JWF) issued a report that
                    wrestled with what had for two decades been a confusing, ambiguous, and downright thorny problem:
                    articulating a prescription for Jewish life that successfully combined Jewish tradition with
                    American culture in a way that was not too closely wedded to either. "We are different, and
                    we might as well recognize it, frankly," it tentatively stated. This acknowledgment of
                    community distinctiveness, however, masked a call for conformity. "Though civilization is
                    becoming increasingly complex, and our differences exaggerated," it continued, "we
                    must hold together. We must maintain our culture and demonstrate our best values for their
                    incorporation into American life."1
                The dilemma faced by these thoroughly Americanized yet heritage-conscious leaders was embodied in the
                    thousands of East 
                        Richard Moss is a PhD candidate in History at Purdue University, specializing in
                            twentieth-century American ethnic history. He would like to thank Douglas Hurt, Erin
                            Kempker, Erin Moss, and the staff of the Indiana Historical Society for their help in
                            preparing this article.
                        1Annual Report, March 31, 1925, pp. 5, 8, 16, Box 2, Folder 4, Jewish
                            Welfare Federation Records, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (hereafter JWF).
                    
                     European Jewish immigrants and their children on the
                    city's South Side. Desiring to see these Jews shed the old-country ways and religious
                    orthodoxy that the JWF feared made them so out of place, leaders also understood the perils of
                    unregulated Americanization. The transition to American society was too fragile a process to be
                    handed over to the vaudeville houses, nickelodeons, and other temptations that characterized the
                    American city; in order to balance what one 
                        Indianapolis
                     Jew in 1923 called "refined and cultured" Americanism with culturally
                    aware Jewishness, communal and charitable institutions would have to take on the burden of
                    overseeing the transition of immigrants and their families. Beginning in 1920, the JWF did just
                    that, offering a series of carefully managed recreational and educational activities that emphasized
                    proper public behavior and self-reliance and attempted to ease the city's most recent
                    Jewish immigrants into the urban culture of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Fearing that the isolation they faced in the shtetls of Europe left them unable to
                    make "correct" choices about leisure, religion, and behavior, the Federation made
                    its South Side Communal Building the base for a tight- ly controlled program of activities designed
                    to engage participants in pursuits that would reflect positively on the Jewish community at large.
                    Athletic activities, scouting, dramatic performances, and elaborately staged dances were offered as
                    alternatives to what community leaders saw as the more rough-edged-even licentious-commercial
                    offerings in and around the immigrant neighborhood. By the 1930s, the energy that drove these
                    programs had faded with the breakup of the South Side enclave, and the Communal Building fell into
                    increasing disuse. This rise and fall-of the building and the spirit it represented-provides a
                    window into the struggles over ethnic identity and what it meant to be a successfully assimilated
                    American Jew in a relatively homogenous early twentieth-century Midwestern city.2
                The first Jews arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the middle of the nineteenth century. Primarily immigrants from 
                        Germany
                     and other points in central Europe (though many had lived elsewhere in the 
                        United States
                     before they arrived in the city), they were drawn from throughout the Midwest by the
                    growth of commerce and rail lines in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 
                        2On the issue of "refined and cultured" Americanism,
                            see "An Open Letter," Indiana Jewish Chronicle, April
                            13, 1923, p. 5, Reel 1318, Indiana Jewish Historical Society Records, Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (hereafter IJHS).
                    
                     Economically, they found it relatively easy to establish
                    themselves as merchants. Many were already established in the clothing industry, as Judith Endelman
                    notes in her study of 
                        Indianapolis
                     Jews, and the men who founded the Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation, the city's
                    first congregation in the mid-nineteenth century, reflected this orientation. Retailers and
                    wholesalers of clothing, tailors, and clothing store clerks were the most common occupations.
                    Indeed, as early as 1859, ten of the city's eighteen clothing stores were owned by Jews.
                    Peddlers (who were themselves often working toward owning their own shops), an optician, three
                    physicians, a clothes cleaner, and a jeweler were also represented, as well as at least one man with
                    no visible employment. Socially, they were easily absorbed into the diverse mix of Germans, Irish,
                    French, English, African Americans, and native-born whites who made up the city's
                    population. Indeed, many Jewish men took non-Jewish wives; this was not as scandalous as it would
                    have been in Europe, and after a brief controversy the women were accorded official membership in
                    the synagogue. In 1856, construction of the Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation was aided by funds from
                    Christian groups. The institution's name reflected its founders' fears that a
                    Hebrew-language designation would alienate its members from the larger community. By 1870, about a
                    decade before the first waves of Eastern European Jewish emigrants began arriving in 
                         America
                    , the city's Jewish population stood at around 500. Many of these individuals
                    had achieved great financial and social success: in 1882, approximately one-half of the Jews
                    employed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were retail- ers, wholesalers, and shopkeepers, and Endelman notes that much of the
                    other half was engaged in similar fields like tailoring or peddling. By the end of the century, Jews
                    owned some of the most prosperous businesses in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , including Kahn Tailoring, the Meyer-Kiser Bank, and the Moore Packing Company, and
                    were involved in local government, civic organizations, and social concerns. During the first
                    decades of the twentieth century, members of this established group served on the Indianapolis
                    Common Council, the city's War Chest and Liberty Loan committee, and the Indiana General
                        Assembly.3
                
                    3Judith E. Endelman, The Jewish Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : 1849 to the Present (
                            Bloomington
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        , 1984), 20-46; "History of the Jews of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Reform Advocate (Chicago), May 1, 1909;
                        "Highlights of the History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Jewish Community," Box 54, Folder 7, IJHS; Myra Auerbach, "A
                        Study of the Jewish Settlement of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," (M.A. thesis, Indiana University, 1933), Box 3, Folder 1,JWF, esp.
                        42-43.
                
                
                Starting in the 1880s, however, new Jewish immigrants had begun to establish themselves in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Driven from Europe by pogroms, harsh legal restrictions, and poor socioeconomic
                    conditions, these and later arrivals (from 1881 to 1924) swelled the Jewish population in 
                        America
                     by two million. The newer Jewish immigrants arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in comparatively small numbers. Most came from Eastern Europe, although a small
                    Sephardic minority hailed from Yugoslavia. Settling primarily in an area lying between the 800 and
                    1200 blocks of South Meridian Street and extending westward to South Illinois Street, their numbers
                    were enough to increase the city's Jewish population from around 500 in 1870 to 5,500 in
                    1907.
                The tension between established German Jews and their newly arrived counterparts is well-documented.
                    The poverty in which immigrant families found themselves may have been a consequence of
                    institutionalized antisemitism in the old country (sometimes exacerbated in 
                        America
                     by German Jews themselves, who employed and often exploited new arrivals at their
                    businesses), but it nevertheless unnerved Jewish leaders, who feared that immigrants'
                    living conditions, combined with their perpetuation of the Yiddish language, their Orthodox
                    eccentricities, and their cultural isolation, would inflame American prejudices. On a national
                    scale, according to Cincinnati Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise, Eastern European Jews would "sully
                    the good reputation of Judaism" and "without question lower our social
                        status."4
                
                    4An exact number of Jewish residents in 
                            Indianapolis
                         is difficult to determine. Endelman cites a number of surveys that have the
                        population hovering around 6,000 in the late 1900s and early 1910s. See Endelman, Jewish Community of Indianapolis , 60. The U.S. Census offers a myr- iad of figures
                        and just as many problems. Early twentieth-century data did not specify religious affiliations,
                        and we must roughly estimate based on the number of residents with ties to European countries
                        from which the majority of Jews emigrated. In 1910, the census counted 2,159 residents who were
                        born in 
                            Russia
                         or had at least one parent who had been; the same criteria pointed to 1,711
                        Austrians and 1,068 Hungarians. These figures also include other ethnicities along with Jews, of
                        course, and make no allowances for the third generation. By 1920, the introduction of the
                        "mother tongue" category cleared things up somewhat. In that year, the census
                        counted 2,282 residents whose language (or that of their parents), was Yiddish or Hebrew. 1,155
                        of those were foreign born. See U. S., Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census,
                            1910, Vol. I: Population (
                            Washington,
                            D.C.
                        , 1913), 952; U.S., Bureau of the Census, Fourteenth Census, 1920,
                        Vol. II: Population (
                            Washington,
                            D.C.
                        , 1922). Wise quoted in Robert Rockaway, Words of the Uprooted: Jewish
                            Immigrants in Early Twentieth Century 
                                America
                             (
                            Ithaca
                        , 
                            N. Y.
                        , 1998), 9; "Superintendent's Weekly Report," October 21,
                        1913, Box 1, Folder 1,JWE For more discussion of the German/East European Jewish divide, see
                        Jack Glazier, Dispersing the Ghetto: The Relocation of Jewish Immigrants Across 
                                America
                             (
                            Ithaca
                        , 
                            N. Y.
                        , 1998), which details
                
                
                These fears were especially acute in 
                        Indiana
                    . Though East European-born Jews numbered only around 2,282 in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1920, the local popularity and entrenchment of the Ku Klux Klan made life tense for
                    Jews of all backgrounds. In 1905, for example, Governor James Hanly, addressing a forum initiated by
                    an 
                        Indianapolis
                     Reform Jew and attended by several rabbis, warned his audience that "There
                    should be no Jewish Americans. I have little patience with the man who comes to this country and
                    participates in its blessings ... and continues even in thought to remain a foreigner."
                    Twenty years later, Governor Ed Jackson (whose Klan affiliation was well-known) seconded this
                    ominous note at the dedication of Congregation Beth-El's new building in 
                        Indianapolis
                    : "I do not like adjectives or hyphens to differentiate one person from
                    another." Hanly's and Jackson's words and affiliations served notice that
                    Jews were to disappear into the larger population or risk possible reprisals.
                Despite government officials' urgings, and the relative political acceptance of Jews in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , there were barriers to social integra- tion. Clubs and other social institutions
                    remained segregated by religion, and while overt tensions were rare, social boundaries were
                    informally enforced. This enforcement encouraged Jewish leaders to fear that the public behavior of
                    immigrants would challenge the understanding that had been reached between Jews and the
                    city's Protestant majority. Social control over recent arrivals was thus a primary concern
                    of Jewish leaders. The Reform community found Orthodox immigrants too rigid and tradition-bound.
                    Those immigrants who shunned religion were equally bad, however, as they were feared to have brought
                    socialism, anarchism, trade unions, and other staples of the poor and dispossessed to a relatively
                    harmonious city. These fears were only magnified by the fact that the city's small size
                    made it a destination for "removals"-recent immigrants sent from eastern cities
                    into smaller communities by the Industrial Removal Office, a national Jewish charity that sought to
                    break up northeastern ghettos by giving their residents one-way tickets out of 
                        the Industrial Removal Office and the struggle over Jewish identity in America. Other
                            Indiana communities received removals. In 
                                Terre Haute
                            , the frustrations over limited resources paral- leled those that 
                                Indianapolis
                             leaders faced. See Glazier, "'Transplanted From Kiev to
                            Hoosierdom:' How the Industrial Removal Office Directed Jewish Immigrants to 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, 97 (March 2001),
                            1-25.
                     town. The necessity of finding employment and living
                    arrangements for these arrivals added to the stress of local Jewish leaders.5
                The economic and cultural strains that Jewish leaders saw as closely linked to new arrivals were met
                    primarily by the JWE Chartered in 1905, the Federation began as an effort to supplement the work of
                    the city which, like all townships in Indiana since the mid-nineteenth century, assumed that it
                    would care for only the most indigent, leaving the rest of the poor and needy to private agencies.
                    Like the city's Catholic Charities, which also catered to a "minority"
                    population, the JWF offered basic services such as monetary aid and a modest community center
                    (though its services and community center would soon far out- pace those of its Catholic
                    counterpart). Like most Jewish charities of the period, moreover, it was created and chaired by
                    prosperous German Jewish businessmen. Among its first leaders were Sol Kiser, a clothier-
                    turned-banker, and wholesaler G.A. Effroymson. Initially, the Federation dispensed charity in a
                    narrow fashion. Each week, the JWF would consider pleas for relief, which might involve money for
                    rent, food, or coal. Often, transients passing through the city would request money for lodging or
                    meals. The Federation would consider these cases individually and dispense what aid they deemed
                    appropriate. Endelman posits a discernible prejudice toward the kind of
                    "self-help" projects that would uplift immigrant aid seekers (such as loans for a
                    market stand or a horse and wagon for peddling), but such help was nevertheless given on a
                    case-by-case basis and did little for the immigrant community as a whole. What attention was paid to
                    moral development occurred on an individual basis. Runaways such as Victor Reisberg, who was
                    discovered in 1914 at a "5 cent show," were merely sent home. Sarah Gemple was a
                    regular fixture in the Federation's minutes, complaining that her son Hyman had again left
                    home-each time, the Federation simply made an effort to find him. Little action was taken to reform
                    the boys and provide them with the kind of social life that would (in theory, at least) keep them
                    from disappearing into the city. In 1913, Rose Silverman traveled to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        New York
                     on Manny Patnick's promise that he would marry her on arrival. Expecting to
                    find domestic security, 
                        5Endelman, Jewish Community of Indianapolis, 59;
                            Glazier, "Stigma, Identity, and Sephardic-Ashkenazic Relations in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," in Persistence and Flexibility: Anthropological
                                Perspectives on the American Jewish Experience, ed. Walter P. Zenner (
                                Albany
                            , 
                                N.Y.
                            , 1988), 47.
                    
                     Silverman instead found Patnick to be a fraud who robbed her of
                    $200 and fled the state. The JWF managed to hunt him down and return him to 
                        Indiana
                    , and the pair were forced to marry. Rose Silverman and her groom were never heard from
                    again, but we might guess that their wedding did not lead to the ideal middle-class existence that
                    the Federation began to work for in the 1920s.6
                These incidents reflected the kind of well-meaning but ultimately misguided assistance that the
                    Federation advocated in the initial years of the twentieth century. Hoping to see new arrivals
                    adjust, assimilate, and lead the kind of respectable lives that they themselves enjoyed, established
                    German Jews nevertheless took a decidedly reactive approach to achieving this goal. Though monetary
                    assistance was essential, as was the return of children to their families (the value of forcing a
                    Silverman- Patnick wedding was perhaps more dubious), the Federation offered little to help
                    immigrants and their children, described as "not accustomed to the intensity of
                    life" in the American city, deal with modern American society and culture. A foster home
                    and reform school for wayward youth was disbanded in 1910, but the problems it was intended to
                    combat did not seem to disappear, even as many in the Federation thought the need had passed. Though
                    it held dances and other gatherings at its South Side Communal Building, the Federation had yet to
                    recognize explicitly the value of these amusements in helping immigrants and their second-generation
                    children adjust to the "intensity" of their surroundings. The Communal Building, a
                    relatively modest two-story frame structure of West Morris Street, was purchased in 1913 from a
                    German physical culture society and served as the structural center of Americanization for South
                    Side Jews, but JWF officers made only brief mention of it in their annual reports. In the initial
                    years of the century, Americanization seemed to be a matter of economics. Starting a business and
                    becoming successful was seen as an ultimate goal, and while leaders promoted initiative and
                    self-sufficiency, these habits of mind were intended to make 
                        6For a general discussion of the Federation's beginnings, see
                            Endelman, Jewish Community of Indianapolis, 38-39, 97-101. For a brief
                            discussion of 
                                Indianapolis's
                             Catholic Charities in the early twentieth century, see Mary Mapes, A Public Charity: Religion and Social Welfare in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1929-2002 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 2004), 14-15. For a record of the Federation's early consideration of
                            charity requests, see Superintendent's Weekly Reports, Box 1, Folder 1, p. 2, JWF;
                            Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 74. For discussions of specific cases, see Superintendent's
                            Weekly Report, September 16, 23, 1923, October 7, November 18, 1913, Box 1, Folder 1,JWF,
                            and February 4, 1914, Box 1, Folder 2, JWF.
                    
                     immigrants economically self-sufficient. Concerns over moral
                    development, proper social behavior, and middle-class cultural awareness were not seen as important
                    elements in the transition to American life.
                Several factors converged in the late 1910s to orient the JWF toward the use of leisure and other
                    activities as a means of Americanization. An effort to professionalize the organization led to the
                    hiring of full-time social workers, a greater division of labor within the Federation, and the
                    creation of independent committees to oversee more complex work in the community. Looking back on
                    the transition, former JWF president George W. Rabinoff claimed that the Federation had begun to
                    understand the link between charity and "social attitudes"-that reform of the
                    latter could lead to more efficient (and cost- effective) dispensation of the former. Indeed, such
                    reform might eventually make charity unnecessary. In pursuit of this goal, Rabinoff continued, the
                    Federation began to work toward raising "the general morale" of new arrivals and
                    their children. In the first days of 1920, the Executive Committee announced that "we
                    recommend the inauguration of preventative work...designed to anticipate any possible
                    delinquency" among neighborhood Jews. Recognizing the need for amusement that lay at the
                    root of much of this delinquency, the committee concluded that "recreational facilities
                    should be provided." These statements underscored the break in the Federation's
                    policies. Before 1920, leaders had believed that a firm economic footing was the best route to
                    Americanization. By the early 1920s, however, they argued that the organization needed to take an
                    active role in the social and cultural lives of new arrivals in order to ensure that immigrants met
                    American culture on terms acceptable to Jewish leaders and their Protestant neighbors.7 Originally intended as "a community house and a social and educational center
                    for the Jewish people of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," the Communal Building had opened amidst hopeful forecasts that it would
                    serve as a resource for all 
                        Indianapolis
                     Jews. The realities of balancing the interests of established, fully-Americanized
                    German Jews with those of East- and South-European immigrants proved difficult, and leaders lost
                    much of their initial fervor for the building. The poorer immigrants who frequented it drove away
                    more established Jews, who felt that "there has always been a stigma attached to the
                    building because of its physical asso- 
                        7George W. Rabinoff, "The Jewish Federation of
                            Indianapolis," August 1928, Box 2, Folder 3, JWF; Executive Committee Minutes,
                            January 8, 1920, Box 1, Folder 4, JWF.
                    
                     ciation with" charity and Americanization. The
                    building, patrons realized, was not a space for the Jewish community at large, but one in which
                    members of the middle and upper classes offered services that they themselves shunned. This stigma
                    grew as Jews of all backgrounds became more prosperous and left the South Side in increasing numbers
                    to take up residence north of downtown. For East Europeans and their children, this movement began
                    in earnest in the 1920s, and by 1932, Jewish residents of the more prosperous North Side
                    neighborhoods outnumbered those of the South Side by more than two to one. Though separated by only
                    a few miles, the two neighborhoods could hardly have been more different. On the South Side, amidst
                    what Endelman describes as "grime, dirt, foul air, and overcrowding," the Jewish
                    delis, kosher butchers, bakeries, and Hebrew school that served the working-class residents stood in
                    a closely packed environment (one resident remembers a friend covering the length of the 1100 block
                    of South Illinois by bounding across the buildings' roofs). In contrast, the North Side
                    neighborhood, centered on 23rd and Meridian Streets and extending a few blocks in all directions,
                    was, in Endelman's words, characterized by "bucolic calm, stately houses, and
                    treelined avenues." Though the movement north and the increasing middle-class orientation
                    of many East European Jews were important factors in easing the rift between newer immigrants and
                    their longer-established German counterparts, they nevertheless heightened the division between the
                    Federation and those who remained in the South Side. The turn to charity and Communal Building
                    programs further solidified the different identities of the two communities, especially as leaders
                    continued through the 1920s to create a physical hub for North Side life, finally dedicating their
                    own community center, the Kirshbaum Center, in 1926. With the new thrust of Federation work, the
                    Communal Building and its programs were left to the "downtown" Jews, and its
                    meeting rooms, small gymnasium, and location in the heart of the South Side Jewish enclave lent it a
                    new importance. Building further upon its more professional approach, the Federation created an
                    educational committee to oversee Americanization, recreation, and the Communal Building itself.
                    Unlike those leaders who had quickly grown disheartened by the "factionalism"
                    surrounding the Communal Building, the Educational Committee ran it relatively efficiently. Through
                    English-language instruction, citizenship classes, and "proper entertainments,"
                    the newly formed committee took "charge of all efforts to improve the intellectual and
                    moral standing of the Jewish poor." With existing facilities in place and newly formed
                    committees to handle the new work, the Federation embraced the role of leisure 
                    
                        The South Side Communal Building, c. 1950 In the 1920s, the Communal
                            Building was a center for JWF efforts to assimilate new Jewish immigrants. Courtesy
                            Indiana Historical Society
                     in preventive social work. "Modern social services is broader than alms
                    giving," the group asserted, adding that "recreation has an important place
                    in" creating "an atmosphere to counteract some of the vicious influences conducive
                    to delinquency."8
                By the early 1920s, a perception of the increasing pervasiveness of "vicious
                    influences" combined with the JWF's professionalization efforts to force the issue
                    of recreational provisions. Though immigration had 
                        8For discussions of Jewish neighborhoods and the tensions surrounding
                            them, see "Early Organizations," Box 54, Folder 3, IJHS; Dorothy Ann
                            Forman, "A Study of the Jewish Communal Building of Indianapolis," (M.A.
                            thesis, Indiana University, 1940), 8; Carol Elrod, "Southsides Jewish Neighborhood
                            Emptied by Exodus," (n.d.), Box 54, Folder 7, IJHS; Endelman, Jewish
                                Community of Indianapolis, 33, 114-18; Glazier, "Nicknames and the
                            Transformation of an American Jewish Community: Notes on the Anthropology of Emotion in the
                            Urban Midwest," Ethnology 26, (April 1987), 75-77; Rabinoff,
                            "The Jewish Federation of Indianapolis"; Annual Report, Jewish Federation
                            of Indianapolis, March 31, 1914, Box 2, Folder 3, JWF; Annual Report, Jewish Federation of
                            Indianapolis, March 31, 1926, Box 3, Folder 4, JWF.
                    
                     slowed, it had not stopped, and the problem of the second
                    generation was still prominent. As JWF caseworkers probably realized when they found Victor Reisberg
                    enjoying a nickel show while hiding from his parents, "Americanization" was
                    actively taking place under their noses, whether they played a role in it or not. "Stop a
                    moment and consider parents!" exhorted a 1923 letter to the weekly Indiana
                        Jewish Chronicle. "Would you rather have your boy hanging around pleasure resorts
                    and gambling and learning all the evils he can from such company" than living as a
                    responsible citizen? "When a boy is exposed to coarse associations," the anonymous
                    author continued, he "becomes influenced by them and cultivates habits which are
                    detrimental to [his] character." These coarse associations were readily available in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From the twenty-cent bargain matinees of B. E Keith's Metropolitan Vaudeville
                    ("Ain't we got fun!" proclaimed the ads) to the "Baby
                    Bears" and "Kandy Kids" of the Broadway Burlesque Theater, immigrants and
                    second-generation Jews enjoyed access to a variety of decidedly un-middle-class amusements, many of
                    them located close to the immigrant community. The Broadway Burlesque made its home on South
                    Illinois Street, in the heart of the Jewish enclave. Traveling a few blocks north toward the Circle,
                    a young Jewish man could reach the Henry Cooler Billiard Parlor in less than a mile, and the Granada
                    Theater was only slightly further to the east, on the 1000 block of Virginia Avenue. In the early
                    1920s, the Palace Theater, at 35 North Pennsylvania Street, was advertising such acts as the Follis
                    Sisters ("The Snappy Flappers"), and Blackface Eddie Ross and his African Harp.
                    Brennecker's Dance Hall, remembered as particularly rowdy, was located just south of the
                    original home of Congregation Beth-El, a conservative synagogue that counted many new arrivals among
                    its members. While the congregation cited loud music and louder patrons as the reasons for its
                    eventual move in the mid- 1920s, the fact that in a matter of seconds youngsters could go from
                    Friday evening services to a dance hall featuring the often sexually explicit dances for which
                    commercialized establishments were famous surely unnerved the elders.9
                
                    9Lizabeth Cohen, Making a New Deal: Industrial Workers in 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919-1939, (
                            Cambridge
                        , 
                            UK
                        , 1991); "Highlights of the History of the Indianapolis Jewish
                        Community," (n.d.), Box 54, Folder 7, IJHS; Indiana Jewish Chronicle,
                        September 8, 9, November 10, 1922, Reel 1318, IJHS; Auerbach, "A Study of the Jewish
                        Settlement of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ."
                
                
                Any steps that East European immigrants took to curb their chil- dren's behavior came
                    cloaked in an Orthodoxy that was, in Endelman's words, "unresponsive to the
                    American milieu." In a syndicated column appearing in the Indiana Jewish
                        Chronicle, Chaim Bialik wrote that "the tragic rift between Jewish children and
                    parents is, no doubt, directly traceable to the different cultural worlds in which they
                    live." Records indicate that Yiddish often remained the primary language of immigrants, and
                    that they held tenaciously to a stricter brand of Jewish observance. Their children, however, wanted
                    none of this shtetl-type isolation. As the generational rift (which, of course, was unique to
                    neither the Jewish community nor the early twentieth century) grew, young people distanced
                    themselves further from the community and its guidance. As concerned as they were with
                    Americanization, Federation leaders-like the anonymous letter writer in the Chronicle-wanted to see this process occur not only in a middle-class context, but in a Jewish
                    one as well. Writing in 1919, the president of the Reform Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation decried
                    the "evil" loss of Jewish sensibilities among his congregation. "The
                    members of a congregation in our modern complicated life," he claimed, "are
                    inclined to be disinterested" in Jewish customs and culture. While the typical view of the
                    well-off Reform Jews who headed up charity and reform groups was that they were no different from
                    gentiles, 
                        Indianapolis
                     leaders nevertheless added a healthy dose of Jewish awareness to the standard
                    Americanization rhetoric.10
                Adrift in the city, JWF leaders feared, immigrants and their children would either lose their Jewish
                    identity or cling to it to the point of provincialism. What guidance these people might receive in
                    their neighborhoods often came from non-religious immigrants, who leaders feared had few qualms
                    about rejecting their Jewish identity. Of these secular immigrants, the "removals"
                    from New York City were the most dangerous in the eyes of the Federation, which suspected them of
                    "affecting the 
                        Indianapolis
                     community with urban vices." To the Federation, the Sephardic Jewish
                    community, long antagonistic to German leaders, presented the most insidious combination of these
                    problems. Centered in the area around Church Street, the community consisted of about sixty- 
                        10Endelman, Jewish Community of Indianapolis, 59,
                            64; Indianapolis Hebrew Congregation, President's Annual Message, September 22,
                            1919, Box 47, Folder 2, IJHS; Chaim Bialik, "If Not Now-When?" Indiana Jewish Chronicle, April 16, 1926, Reel 1319, IJHS.
                    
                     five families who had emigrated from the town of 
                        Monistar
                    , 
                        Yugoslavia
                    , and were mostly employed at the Kahn Tailoring factory. Sephardic parents, Rabinoff
                    lamented, "have generally been indifferent and have not co-operated to...provide
                    satisfactory substitutes for the excitement of the streets." As a result, second-generation
                    boys roamed downtown in gangs, gambling and "learn[ing] the usual street
                    misdemeanors," while girls fell prey to Protestant missionaries. The outcome was a
                    community whose residents offended the middle-class sensibilities of influential 
                        Indianapolis
                     gentiles even as they renounced their Jewish heritage. Sephardic youth, absent any
                    guidance, were indeed becoming Americans, but not in the mold that the Federation desired. While
                    Sephardic Jews and their Ashkenazic (East European) neighbors were often at odds, the Federation did
                    not distinguish between them in lamenting their choices. Both groups represented immigrants out of
                    step with refined American culture and potentially embarrassing to their more elite counterparts.
                    Faced with young people eager to negotiate American culture, and immigrant parents who were
                    unwilling or unable to help them make the "correct" choices (or, indeed, making
                    incorrect choices themselves), the Federation and its Educational Committee sought to offer leisure
                    activities that coincided with their vision of Americanization.11
                To this end, the Federation sharply restricted the content of amusements that it offered. Clearly
                    setting the boundaries of Americanization and ensuring that the process would occur on their terms,
                    the Board of Governors in 1920 voted to allow only those "entertainments given by such
                    bodies as we feel should be allowed to give them and no affairs be allowed...that are not of
                    a...beneficial nature." To meet these requirements, those giving programs with JWF money
                    were forced to "assume certain responsibilities" and to guarantee that the
                    amusements were "wholesome and novel." These provisions ensured that participants
                    would be exposed to entertainments, such as athletic carnivals and dances, that fit a middle-class
                    ideal of refinement and "wholesomeness."12
                
                    11Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 59, 64; Rabinoff, "The Jewish Federation of
                        Indianapolis," 57.
                    12Minutes of Board of Governor's Meeting, November 4, 1920,
                        Minutes of Executive Committee Meeting, June 10, 1920, Box 1, Folder 4, JWF; Annual Report,
                        March 31, 1926, Box 3, Folder 4, JWF.
                
                
                The Communal Building proved invaluable to the realization of these objectives. As the official site
                    ofJWF activities until 1926, it provided the Federation with a tightly policed area where directly
                    sponsored groups (and even independent groups seeking a Jewish audience) could be forced to hold
                    their functions. The fact that the Federation developed a plan to deal with all outside requests for
                    the building's use attests to their desire to control events.
                The Federation's rather jealous control of physical space both paralleled and made possible
                    its desire to control Jewish social and cultural life in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The charges of inbreeding, isolation, and miseducation leveled at the Sephardic
                    community, for example, can perhaps be traced to the fact that Sephardic Jews preferred to remain
                    apart from JWF work. Many of them were, in fact, successful merchants and work- ers who founded and
                    operated their own synagogue and communal institutions, including a social club which initially met
                    at the Communal Building but then moved to a rented space on the 800 block of South Meridian Street.
                    The problems with Sephardic youth were no greater than those faced by the mainline Jewish and
                    gentile communities, but by choosing to create their own separate institutions, Indianapolis
                    Sephardim angered members of the JWF who desired to bring the entire Jewish community under their
                    guidance. The Federation made repeated attempts throughout the 1910s and 1920s to co-opt Sephardic
                    communal life, and in 1927, helped to purchase a two- story building at 1002 South Capitol Avenue.
                    On the other hand, the socialist Workman's Circle, a group that seemed in no great hurry to
                    learn English and, worse, espoused the kind of radical ideas that caused many sleepless nights among
                    American Jewish leaders, was welcomed by the Federation. This acceptance was most likely due in no
                    small part to the fact that the Circle conducted its meetings in the Communal Building, under the
                    watchful eyes of Federation leaders who could ensure that the group's ideas did not make it
                    out of the embryonic stage. That a relatively successful group could be derided as backward and
                    isolated, and a revolutionary group could be tolerated, even embraced, attests to the importance of
                    control to the Federation.13
                
                    13Rabinoff, "The Jewish Federation of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 57; Sylvia Cohen, The History of the Etz Chaim Sephardic
                            Synagogue and Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        , 2001); Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 73-74.
                
                
                A key element of the Federation's program, athletic activity was featured prominently at the
                    Communal Building. According to historian Howard Chudacoff, the "health craze"
                    which drove Federation leaders to offer gym classes and sports to their immigrant patrons was, in
                    the eyes of reformers, "vital to the perpetuation of a virile nation; unlike the street
                    corner or the pub, it was as morally purifying as it was physically imposing." Steven Reiss
                    concurs, pointing out that athletics were "expected to provide a healthy
                    alternative" to "dissipating pastimes," and "raise moral
                    standards and build character." The Federation thus saw athletics as important to the
                    propagation of middle-class Americans. Gym classes and basketball teams such as the Communal Celts
                    Juniors (which no doubt owed its name to the popularity of the original Celtics, a dominant
                    professional team of the 1910s and 20s), the Federation's 1925 report claimed,
                    "supply valuable lessons in good sportsmanship." That the same document equates
                    good sportsmanship with cleanliness, "self-reliance . . . wholesome manhood and good
                    citizenship" underscores the value of these programs to leaders trying to instill
                    middle-class habits in immigrants and their children.4
                The Federation's emphasis on "wholesome manhood" suggests the importance
                    of gender in its conception of proper American behavior. Though gender boundaries were challenged in
                    the postwar culture at large, JWF leaders remained fundamentally conservative on this issue. Their
                    Big Brother and Big Sister programs segregated children by sex, with big brothers emphasizing
                    sobriety and restraint and attempting to make decent men out of young Jews who had run into trouble
                    with the law. Sewing classes were offered to girls and women, and in the mid-1920s girls at the
                    Communal Building were taught folk dances by a student at a local normal school. The Caroline M.
                    Kahn Memorial Log Cabin, constructed adjacent to the Community Building in 1922, housed Boy Scout
                    Troop 50, as well as other Federation-sponsored scouting organizations for boys and girls. Although
                    it often appeared reluctant to embrace groups outside of its control, the Federation 
                        14Howard P Chudacoff, The Age of the Bachelor: Creating
                                an American Subculture (Princeton, N. J., 1999), 126; Steven A Reiss,
                            "Sport and the Redefinition of American Middle-Class Masculinity," The International Journal of the History of Sport, 8 (No. 1, 1991), 10;
                            Linda Borish, "'Athletic Activities of Various Kinds:' Physical
                            Health and Sport Programs for Jewish- American Women," Journal of
                                Sport History, 26 (Summer 1999), 241, 253; Jewish Federation of Indianapolis,
                            Annual Report, March 31, 1925, pp. 8, 16, Box 2, Folder 4, JWF.
                    
                     welcomed the Boy Scouts of America's emphasis on
                    fostering middle-class Americanism, and declared that Troop 50 was an "integral
                    part" of its South Side work. Leaders seemed unconcerned by the Scouts' Christian
                    orientation, perhaps reassured by the group's lack of religious posturing. The
                    JWF's attitude gibes well with author Jay Mechling's insight that the early Boy
                    Scouts were not identified with the "aggressive" fundamentalism that tends to
                    characterize them today. By giving the group space to hold meetings, moreover, JWF leaders made
                    certain that the Federation would remain active in scouting programs and cur- riculum and ensure
                    that they did not upset the desired balance between class, national, and ethnic identities.15
                The Educational Committee also ran a game room and playground at the Communal Building. While not as
                    intimately connected to the rhetoric of sportsmanship and middle-class behavior as athletics, these
                    programs nonetheless served an important role in the Federation's eyes. Leaders criticized
                    the Sephardic community for its failure to provide supervised alternatives to the city's
                    leisure offerings. Athletics provided such an alternative for adults and older members of the second
                    generation, but the popular game room and playground served as more natural inducements to younger
                    neighborhood children. Careful to ensure proper behavior patterns as well as fun, the Federation
                    added a study room adjacent to the game room "to stimulate children to get their lessons
                    first." It could be argued that an austere middle-class sensibility ran through the efforts
                    to get children to postpone pleasure by completing "lessons first." The JWF,
                    however, believed that children could be steered toward both self-improvement and social betterment.
                    Through inducements to finish school assignments and work given to them by Americanization classes,
                    and by the constant supervision of Educational Committee workers whose job it was to ensure that
                    proper social development was never far removed from games and play, the Federation hoped that they
                    would entice neighborhood children to stay away from the sorts of amusements that had drawn Hyman
                    Gemple and Victor Reisberg.16
                
                    15Clifford Putney, "Building Character in the Boy
                        Scouts," Reviews in American History, 30 (June 2002), 316, 320; Jay
                        Mechling, On My Honor: Boy Scouts and the Making of American Youth (
                            Chicago
                        , 2001), 41.
                    16Board of Governors Meeting Minutes, May 13, 1920, Box 1, Folder 4, JWF;
                        Annual Report, March 31, 1925.
                
                
                Athletics, games, and Scouting proved to be valuable substitutions for more rough-edged amusements.
                    However, these programs did not directly challenge the most popular and widely engaged working-class
                    amusements. Adult immigrants in particular were still in danger of consuming leisure that was
                    morally degrading and demeaning to their character. Storefront nickelodeons provided the kind of
                    entertainment that could not be duplicated in a game room, and vaudeville and other lower-class
                    theater productions were also popular. Perhaps most alarming to middle-class reformers was the
                    nationwide "dance craze" that drove young immigrants and working people into
                    commercial halls. In order to prevent Americanization from occurring on the crowded, overheated
                    dance floors, the Federation had to provide a cleaned-up version of such entertainment.
                Of the available forms of entertainment, movies presented the least pressing problem to Federation
                    leaders. Although their meeting minutes document plans for movie exhibitions and requests for a
                    projector, any mention of film screenings is absent from the minutes, the annual reports, and the
                    activities page of the Indiana Jewish Chronicle. The Educational Committee's small budget
                    (it spent $261.80 in 1919, for example) undoubtedly played a role, especially when English and
                    naturalization classes jockeyed for funds with the game room, playground, and other amusements.
                    Dances, as we shall see, were often lavish affairs, and though they were partially funded by the
                    clubs that gave them, the Educational Committee sponsored affairs of its own and assisted with
                    others. Dances and dramatic productions, then, undoubtedly occupied a large share of the
                    committee's entertainment budget. The Federation's willingness to fund these
                    amusements above others suggests that dance halls and cheap theaters were especially popular among
                    South Side Jews, and, perhaps, that the Federation saw them as particularly threatening to its
                    Americanization efforts.17
                This opinion was shared by Stephen Wise, a noted Reform rabbi whose columns were syndicated in the
                    Indiana Jewish Chronicle. In 1922, pondering the question "What is
                    Americanization?," Wise asserted that 
                        17Minutes of Executive Committee Meeting, February 5, 1920, September
                            11, 1924, Box 1, Folder 3, JWF.
                    
                    
                    the theater ought to be taken out of hands that are unclean and converted
                        into an instrumentality that shall be serviceable in the interests of Americanism. There are
                        American theaters and players and dramatists who are ministering finely of the best in American
                        life but there are theaters of every kind and vast numbers of them which, far from being
                        agencies of Americanization, are sewers and cesspools.
                While Wise was in line with his cohorts in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in calling for rough amusements to be replaced by more refined versions, he did not
                    seem to acknowledge that the "sewers and cesspools" of working-class minstrel
                    shows and vaudeville were Americanizing in their own right. The Wild West players and variety acts
                    that were exhibited at B. E Keith's, the Granada, and other 
                        Indianapolis
                     venues represented the kind of working-class Americanism to which immigrants were often
                    drawn. These shows frequently offended middle-class audiences with their unrefined language and
                    celebrations of licentious working-class pleasures. Though vaudeville theaters had by this time
                    evolved from the rough spaces of the nineteenth century, where drunken shouting, fights, and
                    projectiles were as much a part of an evening out as the shows themselves, entrepreneurs like Keith
                    and Sylvester Poli still found ways to appeal to working-class Americans. Indeed, the fact that
                    Keith's theater was compelled to remind potential customers that "You May Take the
                    Ladies and Children" says as much about the reputation of the vaudeville theater in general
                    as it does about the refinement of that particular chain. The language and more overt sexuality had
                    been cleaned up, but the form itself was able to adapt, and remained a target of reformers in the
                    twentieth century.18
                At the same time, Jewish leaders in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , like those in other cities, had to contend with the popularity of amateur Yiddish
                    theater troupes. At the opposite end of the spectrum from vaudeville per- 
                        18Stephen Wise, "What is Americanization?" Indiana Jewish Chronicle, July 14, 1922, Reel 1318, IJHS; Alexander, Jazz Age Jews, 144. On the refinement, and lack thereof, in vaudeville,
                            see Francis Couvares, The Remaking of 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                : Class and Culture in an Industrializing City, 1877- 1919 (
                                Albany
                            , 
                                N.Y.
                            , 1984), 39, 45; Katherine Oberdeck, The Evangelist and the
                                Impresario: Religion, Entertainment, and Cultural Politics in 
                                    America
                                , 1884-1914 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1999); and Lewis Erenberg, Steppin' Out: 
                                    New York
                                 Nightlife and the Transformation of American Culture, 1890-1930
                            (Westport, Conn., 1981).
                    
                     formers, these players offered links to the old country that JWF
                    officials had worked actively to sever. In many ways, however, the shows put on by these groups
                    (whether in a theater of their own, as was the case in larger cities, or in rented spaces)
                    paralleled those of American vaudeville. Ilana Bialik argues that the melodramatic, sensationalized
                    stories "demanded no intellectual effort," and emphasized audience participation.
                    To Reform Jewish leaders, Yiddish theater was "a cheap, vulgar, manneristic, and plagiarist
                    tradition, lacking educational and artistic values." To immigrants, however, they offered
                    "a sense of security, belonging, and comfort" often absent in 
                        America
                    . To men and women who felt their culture under assault by Americanization groups, these
                    players offered a way to periodically reconnect with their past experiences. Perhaps not
                    surprisingly, then, the Federation did not allow Yiddish players in the Communal Building. Although
                    they left the door open for what they considered to be more respectable Yiddish productions, their
                    action suggests that, while they worked to ensure that Jewish awareness remained active in immigrant
                    families, old-country eccentricities had no more place in their vision of the American Jew than did
                    vulgar, unrefined vaudeville productions.19
                Education Committee leaders refused to allow vaudeville entertainments or Yiddish theater in the
                    controlled space of the Communal Building. They seemed to fear that the cultural power of these
                    shows was enough to undo the effects of the committee's formal Americanization work.
                    Leaders did recognize that their attitudes "frequently have been misinterpreted or
                    resented" and that the popularity of their programs fluctuated. The Communal Building was
                    intended to draw all classes together "without patronage of one class over
                    another." Successful Reform Jews and other agents of Americanization enjoyed the most
                    patronage, however, and actions such as barring Yiddish theater contributed to the ill-feelings of
                    poorer immigrants. Though their voices have not been as fully preserved as those of the
                    Federation's leaders, we can gain a sense of the feelings of working-class and immigrant
                    Jews through official records, which stress both the popularity (or lack thereof) of certain
                    programs and the "factionalism" that was exacerbated by leaders' efforts.
                    When Rabinoff spoke of the "suspicions" and "uncom- 
                        19Ilana Bialik, "Audience Response in the Yiddish
                            'Shund' Theatre," Theatre Research
                            International, 13 (No. 2, 1988), 97, 98.
                    
                     promising attitude" of the South Side community, we can
                    assume that members were resentful of the patronage of their counterparts.20
                The Federation thus walked something of a tightrope in its effort to introduce South Side Jews to
                    more refined theatrical amusements. While leaders took care not to offend the pride of their
                    immigrant clientele, they obviously remained dedicated to eradicating less respectable leisure
                    pursuits. Substituting comedy for the melodrama and farce of commercial theaters, the Educational
                    Committee produced plays that had little in common with the Yiddish melodramas of Joseph Lateiner or
                    the farces of the American vaudeville stage. In 1924, for example, the Communal Building hosted a
                    production of "The Trysting Place," a clever one-act farce by 
                        Indianapolis
                     native (and Pulitzer Prize-winner) Booth Tarkington. At the same time, however, leaders
                    seemed to recog- nize that such mainstream culture needed to be tempered with other types of
                    entertainment. Minstrel shows, which remained very popular, were put on by JWF organizations such as
                    the Pals Club in the Communal Building, where they could be sanitized and regulated.21
                As subversive as vaudeville shows seemed to reformers such as JWF leaders, their corruptive powers
                    paled in comparison to those of the city's commercial dance halls, where youngsters could
                    elude parental control and engage in decidedly non-middle class behavior. Because such spaces
                    generally welcomed people from a wide variety of ethnic backgrounds, they created an atmosphere in
                    which young people could negotiate Americanization amongst themselves, without regard for par-
                    ticular ethnic traditions or guidelines. Federation leaders expressed a marked fear of these
                    establishments, and, not coincidentally, dances at the Communal Building were frequent and
                        well-advertised.22
                Much to the satisfaction of the Federation, these dances proved to be some of the most popular
                    leisure activities offered. In an address to the Educational Committee in 1920, the Executive
                    Committee praised the success of Communal Building dances, while at the same time shedding light on
                    the leisure-time preferences of neighborhood residents: 
                        20Rabinoff, "The Jewish Federation of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 1.
                        21Annual Report, March 31, 1914, March 31, 1925, March 31, 1926;
                            Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 131; Alexander, Jazz Age Jews, esp. 130-166. See
                            also Jeffrey Melnick, A Right to Sing the Blues: African Americans, Jews, and
                                American Popular Song (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass
                            ., 1999), esp. 16-59.
                        22McBee, Dance Hall Days, 10, 89.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Kirshbaum Center Built in an architectural style befitting its
                            location, the center was a physical statement of the success of the North Side Jewish
                            community. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                    "two attempts have been made by your Committee to give lectures without success,
                    the people apparently have not awakened to this part of your work, while on the other hand the
                    dances given have been more popular than ever." Despite assurances that upper-class Jews
                    would not exercise "patronage" over their working-class co-religionists, the
                    lectures that were given (and continued to be given, despite the low turnout) suggest that leaders
                    hoped to promote a more staid, intellectually sophisticated recreational life. By the late twenties,
                    talks on subjects related to Jewish artists, literature, and other refined topics were popular among
                    the middle-class patrons of the northside Kirshbaum Center, but, as the Executive
                    Committee's memo makes clear, immigrants and other working-class Jews had no use for them.
                    With their rejection, they were able to force the Federation to offer amusements that interested
                        them.23
                
                    23Minutes of Executive Committee Meeting, February 5, 1920, Box 1, Folder
                        3, JWF; Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 133.
                
                
                Fearing that the Communal Building was all that stood between the newer immigrants and an evening of
                    licentiousness at local dance halls, the Educational Committee found itself in the awkward position
                    of planning dances that would rival its commercial counterparts in terms of enjoyment, yet still
                    contribute to (or, at least, not detract from) its larger mission of uplifting the moral standards
                    of Jewish workers and introducing them to proper standards of American life. "We recognize
                    the necessity for allowing Sunday night dances," the Committee somewhat resignedly declared
                    in 1921, explaining that Inasmuch as the young people of our community want
                        this form of recreation and no other evening is as suitable, we believe that the closing of our
                        hall for dances on Sunday would force a greater use of the commercial halls or more dangerous
                        forms of entertainment. We prefer to offer our facilities where we know the dances will be
                        conducted under the proper auspices. In order to ensure "the proper
                    auspices," the Indianapolis chapter of the National Council of Jewish Women (perhaps driven
                    by their concern for wayward girls) supervised dances in the Communal Building. As the program for
                    the Federation's 1926 "Chummy Dance" suggests, there was little time for
                    activities that were not structured by the organizers, and the highlight of the evening was a
                    foxtrot competition.24
                The specter of well-to-do matrons hovering at the edges of the dance floor undoubtedly made the
                    performance of risque steps difficult, if not impossible. The Federation nevertheless sought to meet
                    the commercial halls on their own turf by emphasizing the fun of their dances and their connection
                    to youth culture. Young people's clubs such as the "Pals" often put on
                    dances, and the Federation clumsily proclaimed, "when the Pals Club gives a dance . . . you
                    know that's 'red hot.'" The point of Federation dances, of
                    course, was that they were not "red hot," but in order to entice South Siders into
                    the Communal Building, sponsors needed to create a feeling of frivolity and disregard for the rules
                    of proper decorum, even as they sought to reinforce these rules. The fact 
                        2Minutes of Executive Committee Meeting, August 11, 1921, January 4,
                            1922, Box 1, Folder 4, JWF; "Communal Building Program," Indiana Jewish Chronicle, January 15, 1926, p. 2.
                    
                     that dances were well-attended, though, suggests that the
                    Federation did not have to compete directly with dance halls. While the fear was that young people
                    were drawn to "more dangerous forms of entertainment," it appears that the unique
                    charms of the commercial dance hall had less influence than the simple desire to socialize with
                    peers, whatever the setting. Nevertheless, proclaiming dances to be "red hot"
                    continued to be used as a means of attracting interest.25
                What the Federation could not offer the community in uninhibited revelry, they attempted to make up
                    for in setting. The Educational Committee took advantage of its budget to adorn the Communal
                    Building with frills not found in other spaces. Dances were extravagantly accessorized-the 1925
                    "Barn Dance" saw the hall decorated with straw and other adornments
                    "beautifully illuminated with bright colored lights suspended from the ceiling"
                    and with "lighting effects for the different dances." In addition to undertaking
                    these tasks, the Federation advertised them prominently in the Indiana Jewish
                    Chronicle, hoping that the promise of lavish surroundings would encourage attendance.26
                The emphasis put on Americanization by JWF officials in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as by other reformers across the country, tended to overshadow their efforts to define
                    the character and direction of Jewish ethnicity. While the primary goal was to integrate immigrants
                    and their offspring into American society, leaders did not call for a complete aban- donment of
                    Jewishness. They did, however, seek to encourage an ethnic and religious identity in line with their
                    own sensibilities. This identity would, they hoped, be but one aspect of American Jews'
                    character and affiliation. Indeed, a sense of ethnic affiliation would ideally bolster
                    one's identity as a responsible American-in an interview with the Indiana
                        Jewish Chronicle, the national head of the Jewish Welfare Board expressed his desire that
                    immigrants and their children, exposed to proper standards of both Americanization and Jewishness,
                    would become "better Americans because they are better Jews . . . [who] emanate a
                    distinctly American type of Judaism."27
                
                    25"Communal Building Program," Indiana
                            Jewish Chronicle, March 5, 1925, p. 2.
                    26"Barn Dance a Great Success," Indiana
                            Jewish Chronicle, November 27, 1925, p. 2.
                     27"Jewish Welfare Board's Head Says From the Jewish
                        Center Will Come the American Jew," Indiana Jewish Chronicle, April
                        13, 1913, p. 4.
                
                
                The Federation decried the lack of Jewish education among children in the city, claiming that in
                    1922, only some 600 Jewish children (out of a total of 2500) were receiving any kind of Jewish
                    education. These figures led to a redoubling of efforts to effectively administer a Talmud Torah
                    school and other centers. While their hostility to Orthodoxy and old-country religious practices was
                    clear, JWF leaders nevertheless felt the necessity of some modicum of religio-cultural instruction
                    in the community.28
                That the Federation oversaw the Talmud Torah is another indication that the administration of Jewish
                    culture and religion was to proceed on the terms of affluent leaders. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the National Council of Jewish Women claimed that they offered Jewish
                    education classes that benefited "200 children in whose hearts we are planting the love of
                    Judaism." The thought of the NCJW, a group of affluent Reform Jews, educating children in
                    Judaism would have alarmed Orthodox immigrants. Reform women did not espouse the kind of religion
                    and culture that newer arrivals were used to; as a contemporary observer remarked, "the
                    various viewpoints regarding Jewish Education are so extreme that each group refused to give
                    consideration to the other groups and insists on its procedure as the only proper and authentic
                        one."29
                By the 1930s, however, the convergence of several factors convinced the Federation to de-emphasize
                    its various Americanization programs. The first half of the 1930s saw a reorientation of the
                    group's work toward the needs of the growing North Side community. By 1934, the
                    reorientation was complete and the effort to Americanize through leisure was symbolically finished.
                    The Depression had greatly sapped both the organization's treasury and the resolve of its
                    members to contribute time and money. "When the depression came along, and money got
                    tight," charged Executive Director H. Hyman Joseph at the 1934 meeting, "then the
                    causes began to be questioned." Events abroad influenced the direction of the
                    Federation's work, as well. The election of 
                        28Jewish Federation of Indianapolis, Annual Report, March 31, 1925, p.
                            8, Annual Report, March 31, 1926, p. 19, Box 2, Folder 4, JWF; Suronda Gonzalez,
                            "Complicating Citizenship: Grace Abbot and the Immigrants' Protective
                            League, 1900-1921," Michigan Historical Review, 24 (Fall 1998),
                            57; Executive Committee Meeting, November 9, 1922, Box 1, Folder 3, JWF.
                        29Indianapolis Section, National Council of Jewish Women,
                            "Yearbook," 1924-25, pp. 7-8, Box 54, Folder 11, IJHS.
                    
                     Adolf Hitler to the German chancellorship in 1933 led one leader
                    to exclaim, "never in his recollection, have the Jews faced such a serious
                    crisis." JWF efforts and funding turned toward the resettlement of German Jews, and other
                    programs found themselves unable to compete for rapidly diminishing resources. Remarking upon the
                    fate of such Americanization programs as leisure activities, Federation president G. A. Efroymson
                    observed, "there is a feeling that as little as possible should be spent for this
                    work." Though he considered this decision "erroneous,"
                    Effroymson's words, published in the JWF's 1934 annual report, heralded the
                    decline of cultural work among immigrants and the second generation. Though the Depression was five
                    years along and the northward movement of South Side residents had been proceeding in an organic
                    fashion, the 1934 comments marked the strongest and clearest articulation of the diminishing
                    enthusiasm for the Communal Building programs. Indeed, the report carries a tone of resignation, as
                    though Effroymson had conceded the end of the Federation's efforts in this area.30
                With no appreciable amount of Jewish immigration to sustain the old neighborhood, the need for
                    services in the South Side enclave was rapidly diminishing. By 1940, only 14 percent of Jewish
                    families in 
                        Indianapolis
                     lived on the old blocks, and many of those that remained were forced to do so by an
                    inability to sell their homes during the Depression. The area now housed people from a variety of
                    ethnic backgrounds, and the Communal Building served mostly African American patrons. As Rabinoff
                    predicted in 1925, the newer immigrants and their children, whenever possible, moved to the more
                    prosperous North Side. Recreational programs continued to be offered at the Kirshbaum Center, but
                    they were stripped of the Americanizing influences of the older programs.31
                It is difficult to assess the effectiveness of the JWF's efforts at regulating leisure in
                    the 1920s. Despite the fears of Reform leaders, immigrants' transition to the middle class
                    was relatively straightforward. Few institutional barriers blocked Jewish economic advancement, and
                    the 
                        30Rabinoff, "The Jewish Welfare Federation of
                            Indianapolis"; Jewish Welfare Federation of Indianapolis, Report of Annual Meeting,
                            April 25, 1934, Box 1, Folder 3, JWF.
                        31Endelman, Jewish Community of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 149; George Rabinoff, to G. A. Effroymson, February 15, 1925, Box 1,
                            Folder 5, JWF; Forman, "A Study of the Jewish Communal Building,"
                        1.
                    
                     movement of so many immigrants to North Side neighborhoods sug-
                    gests that little residential discrimination against Jews existed in the city. Americanization
                    efforts such as English classes undoubtedly aided many in the transition to their new home, but the
                    value of attempting to engineer middle-class habits can be questioned. The high attendance at
                    Federation dances, for example, probably tells us more about Jewish youths' desire for a
                    good time than it does about their receptiveness to the Federation's underlying cultural
                    message. Even as they were promoting athletic and social events, JWF leaders privately admitted that
                    the immigrant neighborhood at which their efforts were aimed was steadily breaking up as its
                    residents joined the middle class. Obviously, the virtues of hard work and self-reliance that
                    underscored JWF activities were being practiced by South Side residents, and the process of economic
                    advancement was doing more to foster a middle-class American identity than were Barn Dances and
                    comic plays. JWF leaders may have assumed that the prevalence of the Klan in Indiana and the overall
                    conservatism of 
                        Indianapolis
                     justified their attempts at social engineering, but the programs they offered at their
                    Communal Building seem to have been as much about control over the image and direction of the
                    expanding community as they were about benefiting immigrants.32
                By steering Eastern European and Sephardic Jewish immigrants away from the city's seedier
                    commercial amusements and into the Communal Building, the JWF attempted to assert control over the
                    entire Jewish community and to ensure that, in mind and habits at least, "American
                    Jews" would be thoroughly middle-class, respectable citizens. In 1925, the Federation
                    insisted that "we must maintain our culture" (my emphasis),
                    begging the question of whose culture was to be maintained. Rabinoff's complaint, three
                    years later, that immigrants and their children demonstrated a "lack of
                    conformity" suggests clearly that it was the culture of Eastern European and Sephardic Jews
                    that was to be reformed. Leaders believed the cultural isolation that characterized these groups was
                    detrimental in several ways. The religious practices and everyday behavior of the immigrants were
                    tainted by Orthodoxy, and their inability to understand American culture gave their children the
                    opportunity to experience the city without the guidance of responsible adults. Either case could
                    lead the 
                        Indianapolis
                     community to 
                        32Endelman, Jewish Community of Indianapolis,
                        117.
                    
                    develop a negative view of its Jewish members. As self-proclaimed
                    lead- ers of an ethnic minority in a homogeneous society, then, JWF members worked to exert control
                    over immigrants and their children in order to facilitate their rapid, unobtrusive integration into
                    American life. Leisure and religion played important roles in the lives of the newer immigrants, and
                    they were logical areas of attention for the Federation. Fearing that entrance into a lower stratum
                    of American society would reflect as poorly on the larger community as would the retention of old
                    country habits, the JWF maintained spaces in which newcomers would be introduced to American culture
                    and habits on its own, respectable terms.
            
            
            
                Mr. Halleck's New Deal: Congressman Charles Halleck and the Limits to Reform
                ROBERT L. FULLER
                Charles Halleck joked after his election in 1935 that, as the sole Republican representative from 
                        Indiana
                    , he held his caucus in a phone booth. However, over time Congressman Halleck rose
                    through party ranks in the House from "waterboy" to majority leader when
                    Republicans regained control of Congress in 1946.1 Because the GOP also won a
                    majority of seats in the Senate, and many Southern Democrats proved cooperative in advancing
                    Republican policies, Republicans stood a very good chance of implementing their program for America.
                    Congressman Halleck, who had railed against the New Deal since he first took a seat in the House,
                    stood in position to do something about it in 1947. Yet, once in office, the Republicans and
                    Southern Democrats, supposedly so dead set against the New Deal, made very few proposals and offered
                    hardly any legislation to alter New Deal reforms in any significant way. Aside from changing labor
                    laws, they made no effort to overturn the legislative achievements of the 1930s that lasted longer
                    than the Depression. Majority Leader Halleck, 
                        Robert L. Fuller holds a Ph.D. in history from the University of Virginia. He is currently
                            working on a monograph about the banking crisis of the Great Depression.
                        1Charles A. Halleck to "Jim," March 20, 1936, box
                            17, Charles A. Halleck Papers, Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                             (henceforth CAH).
                    
                    
                        Charles Halleck Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University Bloomington
                     his Republican colleagues, and their allies among the Democrats only tinkered with a few
                    of the reforms that remained in place after the Supreme Court ruled them constitutionally sound,
                    because by and large Halleck and other Republicans supported most New Deal reforms. When they
                    lambasted "the New Deal," which they did loudly and often, they really targeted
                    the frequently chaotic administration set into place by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to oversee
                    the reforms and relief.
                Roosevelt's "first New Deal," a series of laws intended to save 
                        America's
                     banks and restore confidence in its financial institutions, sped through both houses in
                    the early days of 1933. The laws proved generally popular and of varying effectiveness. Emergency
                    acts intended to provide short-term employment for the jobless ultimately provided millions of jobs
                    for the unemployed and boosted morale within the nation, but failed to "prime the
                    pump" and restore prosperity as intended. Those laws that regulated the banking system and
                    supervised the stock exchanges (passed in 1934) were welcomed by the public and met with mixed
                    reactions among business interests. Republican reaction to the 
                    proposed bills paralleled public response: they voted overwhelmingly for relief and banking reforms,
                    but had varying responses to the laws to supervise the securities markets.2 Laws
                    that intervened in the market system-including the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA), which
                    sought to curb business competition in favor of cooperation to keep up prices and wages; the
                    Agricultural Adjustment Act (AAA), which hoped to curb farm output and raise prices; and the law
                    authorizing the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), which proposed to bestow a wide range of benefits
                    upon the people of the Tennessee River
                    Valley-met neither uniform hostility nor solid support. Regional reactions to such
                    legislation proved stronger than partisan response.3
                Historians typically ignore the mixed Republican support given New Deal-era legislation-as well as
                    its subsequent bipartisan support- in favor of an account of a Republican-led assault upon the New
                    Deal after 1945. Historian Jonathan Bell's 2004 work, The Liberal State on
                        Trial, describes the post-war eclipse of a New Deal-friendly social-democratic agenda by
                    the rise of an anti-communist dogma directed as much against the New Deal as against the Soviet
                    Union and American communists.4 This supposed post-war backlash against New Deal
                    reformism is frequently painted as a war by business interests against labor unions, which had made
                    such strides during the war with the helping hand of Uncle Sam. The expanding power of unions was,
                    according to this version, opposed and reversed by conservatives like Halleck, who used popular
                    disgust with communism as a tool to beat back "red" unions.5
                    Eric Goldman's 1960 characterization of the work of the Eightieth Congress as "the
                    wrathful counter-revolution" still typifies the views of historians today.6 While these views accurately echo Democratic and 
                        2Collier's, "Your
                            Congressman's Vote on the New Deal," 1934, box 51, John J.
                            O'Connor Papers, Lilly Library. The undated special issue provides the roll-call
                            votes on 22 major pieces of New Deal legislation.
                        3Kenneth Finegold and Theda Skocpol, State and Party in
                                America's New Deal (
                                Madison
                            , 
                                Wis.
                            , 1995), 209-10, points out that the regional appeal for the AAA was stronger
                            than party allegiance.
                        4Jonathan Bell, The Liberal State on Trial: The Cold War
                                and American Politics in the Truman Years (
                                New York
                            , 2004).
                        5See, for example, Steven Fraser, Labor Will Rule: Sidney
                                Hillman and the Rise of American Labor (
                                New York
                            , 1991) 539-75; Robert H. Zieger, The CIO, 1935-1955 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N.C.
                            , 1995), 244-45.
                        6Eric Goldman, The Crucial Decade-and After: America,
                                1945-1960 (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 56.
                    
                     Progressive campaign rhetoric of its day, the more personal
                    version of 1940s politics derived from Halleck's papers reveals a dramatically different
                    picture.
                Halleck and his allies' pre-war railings against "the New Deal" had in
                    fact targeted more specifically the host of unorthodox and often politically inept administrators
                    imported by Roosevelt to 
                        Washington,
                        D.C.
                    , to implement the new federal programs put into place by the president and Congress. By
                    the time Republicans retook control of Congress in 1947, most of Roosevelt's appointees had
                    long ago moved on to other tasks, frequently as much to FDR's and Truman's great
                    relief as to that of their political opponents. With Harold Ickes, Tommy Corcoran, Rexford Tugwell,
                    and other convenient targets of the Republicans out of public employ, the Republicans'
                    battle against New Deal excesses had for its focus only "the reds" who supposedly
                    still populated the ranks of the federal bureaucracy.7
                To be sure, Congressman Halleck objected not only to irritating officials and costly bureaucracy, but
                    also to New Deal programs that violated his conception of economic orthodoxy. Yet despite his
                    reservations, he went along with and ultimately accepted most of them. He opposed programs intended
                    to inflate prices and deflate the value of the currency, and he criticized (though did little about)
                    programs that interfered with the free-market system. He challenged federal efforts, such as
                    TVA's electricity program, that dictated prices or put the government into direct
                    competition with private business. He also consistently protested the size and cost of the
                    bureaucracy necessary to implement federal programs. Halleck and other Republicans had fixed ideas
                    about fiscal policies and appropriate functions for the federal government, but those ideas had been
                    tempered by the blows of the Depression, and by 1947 they accommodated a large and expensive federal
                    government. These legislators did not love expensive government, but they accepted it. The
                    Republicans of 1947 oversaw federal programs that touched the daily lives of citizens because, by
                    and large, they had agreed to such programs as they were first implemented. The political career of
                    Charles Halleck serves to demonstrate Republican accommodation to federal involve- 
                        7See Katie Louchheim, ed., The Making of the New Deal:
                                The Insiders Speak (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 1982). Louchheim, herself a young New Dealer, collected the reminiscences of
                            other young New Dealers-mostly lawyers-many of whom years afterward laugh at their youthful
                            ignorance and ineptness.
                    
                     ment in many spheres that had provoked staunch opposition from
                    congressmen of both parties before the Great Depression. When he assumed the powerful position of
                    majority leader in 1947, Halleck already firmly supported government programs set into place by
                    President Roosevelt's New Deal.
                In his brief 1935 campaign, Halleck, an ambitious prosecutor from 
                        Rensselaer
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , endorsed emergency relief, old-age pensions, a stable currency, and a balanced
                    budget-all positions consistent with midwestern Republicanism of the day and compatible with the
                    proclaimed ends of Roosevelt's New Deal administration.8 Unfortunately, 
                        America
                     could not have relief and pensions as well as a stable currency and a balanced budget.
                    Congressional Republicans and the president made the same compromise: a balanced budget had to be
                    sacrificed temporarily to achieve more urgent ends. Despite running large budget deficits, the
                    administration and congressional Democrats still extolled the convention of the balanced budget, and
                    for years promised one in the near future. Halleck's orthodox economic thinking, which he
                    had absorbed as an economics student at Indiana University, guided him to oppose most taxes and all
                    spending bills intended to put money into circulation rather than to procure some specified public
                    good. The "fast talking" freshman congressman's relatively narrow view of
                    the "public good" excluded, for example, $350,000 in federal expenditures for the
                    California Pacific International Exposition of 1935 or funding for the Blue Ridge Parkway.9 This position was entirely consistent with the "Economy Act"
                    of 1933, which had cut federal workers' pay and veterans' benefits in the name of
                    "cutting wasteful spending." Though a veteran of the First World War himself,
                    Halleck, joined by six Indiana Democrats, voted against the Patman Veterans' Bonus Bill,
                    intended to put money into the pockets of World War veterans and to inflate the money supply by two
                    billion dollars. The bill passed, only to be vetoed by FDR.10
                
                    8Halleck won a January 1935 by-election to replace Frederick Landis, who
                        died before he could take the seat to which he had been elected two months earlier. Henry Z.
                        Scheele, Charlie Halleck: A Political Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1966), 55-56.
                    9Voting Record, box 18, CAH; Scheele, Charlie Halleck,
                        37.
                    10Indianapolis Star, March 22, 1935, Scrapbook, CAH; Newsweek, November 25, 1946, p. 39, ibid. Halleck joined the Army when he
                        turned 18 in August 1918, too late to see fighting in 
                            France
                        .
                
                
                In the House Halleck promised he "would take a firm stand against bills embodying
                    experimental theories that would threaten the social and economic structure of the
                        nation."11 Although both of Halleck's parents were
                    small-town lawyers, they lived in modest circumstances. Their farmer and small-merchant clients had
                    had difficulties enough paying legal fees during the fat years before the War, when Charles was a
                    high-school student. During the 1920s, when all was far from well on the American farm, the clients
                    of Halleck and Halleck provided the family with only modest comforts. Charles's position as
                    a county prosecutor brought in some money after the Depression set in, but he still believed that
                    hard work was its own best reward.12 After his election to Congress, he retained
                    the orthodox outlook of small-town 
                        Indiana
                    , decrying the "wild orgy of spending" that had, in his words, turned
                    the federal government into "a Santa Claus."13 Halleck never
                    embraced the populist monetary proposals, championed mostly by Great Plains and Mountain congressmen
                    since the 1880s, that sought to help farmers and industry by expanding the money supply. One such
                    proposal, the Frazier-Lemke Bill of 1936, called on the Treasury to refinance eight billion dollars
                    worth of farm mortgages, unabashedly inflating the currency and thus raising the prices of farm
                    products. Halleck and five Democratic Indiana congressmen opposed the bill, even though they
                    represented many farmers who might have benefited from it.14 Indeed, Halleck
                    informed his father that he had received fifty letters a day from farmers in his district urging him
                    to vote for the bill. Despite their pleas, he wrote, he was more fearful of inflation, which had
                    devastated the economies of 
                        France
                    , 
                        Germany
                    , and 
                        Austria
                     and rendered worthless the accumulated savings of millions of hard-working Europeans in
                    the previous decade. Like many Americans, Halleck was haunted by Europe's disastrous
                    encounter with postwar inflation.15
                
                    11Newton County Enterprise, January 10, 1935, ibid.; Carroll County Press, March 1, 1935, ibid.
                    12Personal correspondence between Halleck and his parents during his early
                        years in Congress are filled with discussion of pending cases, and efforts by the senior
                        Hallecks to collect fees owed to them. Box 17, CAH.
                    13Indianapolis Star, February 15, March 22, April 16,
                        1935, Scrapbook, CAH.
                    14Indianapolis Star, May 13, 1936, Scrapbook, CAH. On
                        Frazier-Lemke see Alan Brinkley, Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin, and
                            the Great Depression (
                            New York
                        , 1983), 254.
                    15Charles A. Halleck to A. Halleck, June 18, 1935, box 17, CAH; The Columbian, September 1936, Scrapbook, CAH.
                
                
                Perplexing debates about the dangers of monetary inflation and deflation sharply divided the American
                    public. The inability of politicians, publicists, and economists to agree on the best fiscal and
                    monetary courses to follow undoubtedly inflamed passions and probably prolonged the Depression. Nine
                    years into the crisis, the Republican National Committee (RNC) still echoed the classic economic
                    belief that inflation was the worst calamity that could happen to an economy and was to be avoided
                    at all costs.16 The RNC called for a balanced budget, lower taxes (especially
                    corporate taxes), and a reformed Social Securities Act that would not drain so much money ($47
                    billion over 40 years, by Republican estimates) out of the economy. Halleck endorsed the Republican
                    program and joined the chorus demanding lower taxes, less government spending, and "an end
                    to federal waste, corruption, and extravagance."
                The one aspect of the RNC document on which Halleck remained silent was its proposed restoration of
                    the gold standard as it had existed prior to 1933. The restoration was a proposal of Alf Landon, the
                    Republican candidate for the presidency in 1936, and it continued to be mooted afterward among
                    segments of Republicans, although it stood no serious chance of enactment, even after the party
                    regained Congress.17 When the currency failed to collapse in 1933, as many
                    skeptics had forecasted that it would, orthodox thinking about the currency toppled instead. Once
                    the received wisdom of conventional economic thinking was shown to be flawed, unorthodox economic
                    policies could be seriously discussed and even implemented. A revolution in thinking was a necessary
                    precondition to passing legislation such as the Social Security Act, which previously would have
                    been rejected as too expensive, and it accounts as well for the Republicans' ultimate
                    capitulation on the gold standard.18
                
                    16"The Answer to a Challenge" RNC, July 1, 1938,
                        Speeches and Writings, box 2, Wendell Willkie Papers, Lilly Library.
                    17Rensselaer Republican, October 29, 1936, Scrapbook,
                        CAH; Indianapolis Star, February 11, 1938, ibid.; Washington
                            Times-Herald, March 27, 1939, ibid.; Time, June 8, 1959, box 8, CAH; "Halleck
                        sketch," William B. Warner, n.d., ibid.
                    18Alan Brinkley, The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in
                            Recession and War (
                             New York
                        , 1996) discusses in depth the shift in administrative thinking about economics, and
                        the eventual championing of the ideas of John Maynard Keynes by New Dealers. Brinkley has less
                        to say about the equally crucial shift in legislators' thinking.
                
                
                Still, eastern and midwestern Republicans like Halleck were loathe to abandon the discipline of the
                    market as the best prescription for what ailed America. From a distance in 
                        Indiana
                    , Halleck had watched the formation of the first New Deal, as Congress passed numerous
                    important pieces of legislation precisely intended to interpose the federal government massively
                    into the market, doing its best to upset the market system. House Republicans had split their votes
                    almost evenly (55-53) on the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) of 1933, which suspended market
                    competition to keep up wages and prices.
                Soon after arriving in the House, Halleck began attacking the NIRA and the AAA. In April 1935 he
                    lamented that ten to thirteen million Americans remained unemployed, despite administration promises
                    that NIRA would create five million new jobs. Halleck charged that only competitive private
                    enterprise could lead the country to recovery, adding, in what would become a familiar refrain, that
                    "social experimentation" had hindered government efforts to produce a recovery.
                    While President Roosevelt and most of his advisors heaved a quiet sigh of relief when the Supreme
                    Court declared the NIRA unconstitutional, Halleck publicly celebrated with Robert McCormick,
                    publisher of the Chicago Tribune, and former 
                        Indiana
                     Senator James Watson.19
                Like most of his farmer constituents, Halleck criticized the AAA, which sought to raise farm prices
                    by having the Agriculture Department pay farmers to curtail production.20 In
                    1936 the Supreme Court found the act's mandated system of payment unconstitutional, yet the
                    program survived when amended by Congress. Halleck and many other Republicans then voted for the
                    amended AAA, whether they fully agreed with it or not. "While I may not be entirely sold on
                    the value of the triple-A program," Halleck wrote his father, "it does seem to
                    have convinced a great many of the farmers that it may be temporarily a good thing for
                        them."21
                The AAA proved to be a program that even supporters found hard to champion. The act had suffered
                    disastrous early publicity when 
                        19Collier's, 1934 special issue.
                            Thirty-five Republican votes against the NIRA came from just three states: 
                                New Jersey
                            , 
                                New York
                            , and 
                                Pennsylvania
                            ; Indianapolis Star, April 19, June 2, 1935, Scrapbook, CAH.
                        20Scheele, Charlie Halleck, 46, 55-7.
                        21Charles A. Halleck to A. Halleck, June 18, 1935, box 17, CAH.
                    
                     Agriculture Secretary Henry Wallace ordered farm production
                    reduced immediately by slaughtering millions of baby pigs and plowing under cotton, corn, and wheat
                    already standing in the fields. These catastrophic measures induced revulsion not only in skeptics,
                    but in many people who agreed with the policy in principle. The obvious waste provided an
                    inexhaustible supply of ammunition for the program's opponents. At a 1936 Halleck campaign
                    rally in 
                        Warsaw
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , one farmer arrived leading a tethered pig wearing a sign: "one of those which
                    escaped the New Dealers." Another man appeared with a dead pig, mounted to his truck by its
                    back legs, and accompanied by a sign reading: "He died to save his country."
                    Halleck never believed the theory that curtailing farm production would raise crop or livestock
                    prices. Speaking to farmers in 
                        Plymouth
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , he argued that it made no sense to limit the production of potatoes in 
                        Indiana
                    , so long as 
                        Indiana
                     imported potatoes from out of state. If there were too many potatoes in 
                        America
                    , farmers in 
                        Maine
                     and 
                        Idaho
                     should grow fewer. Once the amended AAA was enacted, however, neither Halleck nor other
                    Republican leaders moved to end payments to farmers not to plant crops. Indeed, the program remains
                    in place today.22
                Not surprisingly, Republicans were more likely to support those government programs that delivered
                    security without interfering in the free market. In August 1935 Halleck and a majority of
                    Republicans voted for the Social Security Act, which promised federal relief to the unemployed and
                    orphaned, and pensions for the disabled and elderly. Like other Republicans, Halleck was bothered by
                    the act's provisions for funding the old-age pensions through a one-percent payroll surtax
                    starting in 1936 (increasing gradually to three percent), with disbursements not starting until
                    1942. Halleck and others called instead for a pay-as-you-go system that would fund the pensions from
                    general taxes, avoiding the six-year drain on the economy.23 Despite their
                    opposition to the trust-fund system, however, Halleck and most other Republicans 
                        22Plymouth Daily Pilot, August 1, 1935, October 21,
                            1936, Scrapbook, CAH. Finegold and Skocpol, State and Party, 21-2, argue that Democratic
                            credit for the AAA (and Republican opposition to it) enhanced farmers' views of the
                            Democratic Party for years to come, even though most farm-state Republicans supported the
                            original bill, and Republicans-who continued to favor crop curtailment programs-steadily
                            improved their electoral fortunes in farm states after 1936.
                        23Rensselaer Republican, October 29, 1936,
                            Scrapbook, CAH; Washington Times-Herald, ibid.; Scheele, Charlie Halleck, 90.
                    
                    embraced the act because it did not upset the market system, and
                    because it delivered tangible benefits to constituents in an apparently evenhanded way. Like their
                    Democratic counterparts, they were becoming used to massively expensive programs that before the
                    Depression would have been rejected as too expensive for "sound government." The
                    Social Security Act proved exemplary of New Deal legislation that helped average Americans, and
                    received wide and deep popular and political support. The program remained untouched when
                    Republicans gained the majority after the Second World War.
                While Republicans in general, and Halleck in particular, went along with the growing trend toward
                    federal regulation of banking, securities markets, and farm prices, and the provision of pensions
                    for the infirm, orphaned, and elderly, they balked at the explosive growth in the number of
                    employees hired to implement these services. Halleck denounced the "bloated public
                    payroll" during his first session in Congress, and throughout his political career he
                    constantly fretted about the cost and inefficiency of the vast federal work force. His frustrations
                    grew into an obsession during the Second World War, when the size of the work force ballooned. As a
                    member of the House Civil Service Commission, Congressman Halleck-along with most other
                    Republicans-took particular umbrage at the number of political appointments to New Deal positions.
                    Such patronage opportunities, he objected, gave Democrats an unfair political advantage at
                    taxpayers' expense. He also railed against 
                        Indiana
                     Democratic Governor Paul McNutt's "two-percent club," which
                    required state workers (and, report- edly, workers on federally funded job projects) to fork over a
                    portion of their pay to the state Democratic Party. Such open favoritism was still common in the 
                        United States
                     in the 1930s, and control over the distri- bution of jobs was eagerly sought and
                    jealously guarded by politicians of the day. By the time Republicans gained control of Congress, the
                    Hatch Act of 1939 had been passed-with Halleck's support-to curb the worst abuses at the
                    federal level.24
                
                    24Rensselaer Republican, October 24, 1936, Scrapbook,
                        CAH; Indianapolis Times, May 8, 1940, ibid. On the "two percent
                        club" see Louisville Courier Journal, October 1, 1933, Scrapbook,
                        Louis Ludlow Papers, Lilly Library; Indianapolis News, November 1, 1933,
                        ibid.; Indianapolis Star, December 2, 1933, ibid. On casual acceptance of
                        partisan job distribution, see Chester Bowles, Promises to Keep: My Years in Public
                            Life, 1941-1969 (
                            New York
                        , 1971), 33-4.
                
                
                Political fissures within the nation and between Roosevelt, on one hand, and Republicans and
                    conservative Democrats, on the other, grew wider as New Deal recovery programs failed to reignite
                    the economy in 1934 and 1935. With one eye toward populist demagogue Huey Long and the growing radio
                    audience of Father Charles Coughlin, Roosevelt charged that businessmen had failed to make the
                    National Recovery Administration work as it should. Thus, Roosevelt proposed legislation less
                    friendly to business. Some legislation, such as the Public Utilities Holding Company Act which
                    proposed to eliminate utility holding companies, was forcefully hostile. Other laws, such as the
                    Wagner Act which threw the federal government's weight behind union organizing drives, were
                    at best indifferent to business interests.25
                The popularity of Long's "share-the-wealth" campaign prodded Roosevelt to
                    propose a series of progressive changes in the tax codes. While most Republicans voted in favor of
                    the Revenue Act of 1934, which raised income, inheritance, and corporate tax rates in order to help
                    pay for the expensive programs already in place, they forcefully denounced the 1935 Revenue Act as a
                    "soak-the-rich" tax bill. They argued that the bill was aimed even more pointedly
                    at corporations and the wealthy. These proposals, which did little either to raise revenue or to
                    reduce the federal deficit, outraged Halleck and conservatives of both parties. Halleck warned
                    Hoosiers that Roosevelt was embracing socialism and Long's irresponsible demagoguery.
                    Introduced at the height of summer, when congressmen were eager to get out of steamy 
                        Washington,
                        D.C.
                    , the tax legislation passed through both houses after slight tinkering, designed to
                    make it more palatable to conservative Democrats. Halleck, unpersuaded, voted against the tax bill.
                    When Republicans once again ran the House, they rewrote the tax code to lower the rates most steeply
                    stacked against the wealthy, but left in place hefty death duties and heavy taxes upon those in the
                    highest brackets. After all, the federal debt still had to be paid off.26
                
                    25See Raymond Moley's explanation of this shift in The First New Deal (
                            New York
                        , 1966), 523- 31; Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The Coming of the New
                            Deal (Boston, 1958), 496-503. William E. Leuchtenburg portrays the Holding Company Act
                        as a direct attack upon "bigness," in Franklin D. Roosevelt and
                            the New Deal, 1932-1940 (
                            New York
                        , 1963), 156-57.
                    26Plymouth Pilot, August 1, 1935, Scrapbook, CAH; Indianapolis News, August 3, 1935, ibid. On the
                        "soak-the-rich" tax bill see James T. Patterson, Congressional
                            Conservatism and the New Deal: The Growth of the Conservative Coalition in Congress,
                            1933-1939 (
                            Lexington
                        , 
                            Ky.
                        , 1967), 58-69.
                
                
                As Roosevelt tilted against business, he leaned toward organized labor. One influential group of
                    advisors had strenuously promoted the argument that the Depression was the result of maldistribution
                    of income and the resultant "underconsumption." Stuart Chase, John Maynard Keynes,
                    and others argued that if American workers had insufficient income to buy the goods they produced,
                    the obvious solution was to raise their income. If business would not raise wages voluntarily, then
                    unions should convince them to do so. Section 7a of the NIRA had mandated that businesses must
                    follow minimum wage and maximum hour codes established by industry, and that all employees who
                    wished to must be allowed to join independent unions. When the NIRA was declared unconstitutional by
                    the Supreme Court in 1935, Roosevelt sought to preserve labor's gains as a means to boost
                    consumption and employment. Thus, the president endorsed the Wagner-Connery Act, which directed that
                    businesses allow workers to unionize if they chose to. The Wagner Act created the National Labor
                    Relations Board, a body to oversee union-certification elections and to receive and address
                    workers' complaints about unfair labor practices. It also outlawed company unions and
                    coercive measures by management to keep unions out of their businesses. The bill was designed not
                    only to counter unfair practices by corporations, but to foster union membership as a means of
                    increasing wages and boosting consumption.27
                Despite their unabashedly pro-business stance, Republicans generally supported the Wagner bill and
                    voted for it (17-8) in the Senate. Most Republicans maintained good relations with American
                    Federation of Labor (AFL) President William Green, and favored the newly acquired rights and powers
                    of workers and labor unions. When the Wagner Act came up for a vote in the House, Halleck, while
                    proclaiming his belief in the right of working men and women to unionize, voted against it because
                    he considered it unconstitutional.28 When the Supreme Court pronounced the
                    constitutionality of the act in 1937, Halleck joined the pro-union chorus. During the 1938
                    congressional election campaign, Republican Program Chairman Harry Hogan wrote to all Republican
                    candidates, "I think any Republican congressman who 
                        27LSchlesinger, Coming of the New Deal, 400-06; and
                                The Politics of Upheaval (
                                Boston
                            , 1960), 291-92; Leuchtenburg, Roosevelt and the New Deal,
                            150-52.
                        28Indianapolis Star, June 20, 1935, Scrapbook,
                        CAH.
                    
                     does not go the limit for collective bargaining, and the right
                    to unionize is not just overlooking ordinary justice in human affairs, and if he is not concerned
                    about justice involved, at least he ought to recognize the political trends and drift of public
                    opinion, and it is definitely just that way."29 Duly instructed,
                    Halleck joined in wooing labor votes in 1938 by repeatedly proclaiming the importance of labor
                    unions and the need for the government to protect their rights. In a speech pitched to workers,
                    Halleck called AFL President Green "a worthy successor to Samuel Gompers," and his
                    campaign gave out literature proclaiming Republican friendliness toward labor and unions, and
                    support for laws mandating minimum wages and banning child labor.30 In 1940
                    Halleck, who had by then received Green's endorsement for reelection, told a gathering of
                    businessmen in 
                        Minneapolis
                    , "though imperfect, it [the Wagner Act] should not be eliminated, but it
                    should be amended to remove unjust and irritating provisions."31 That
                    proposal remained a Republican priority in 1947, when Congress took up amending the Wagner Act as
                    its first item of business.
                If Republicans jumped on the pro-AFL bandwagon, they were less enthusiastic about the Committee for
                    Industrial Organization (CIO), formed by John L. Lewis in 1935 (which in 1938 became the Congress of
                    Industrial Organizations). The CIO forcefully pushed the unionization of unskilled labor in heavy
                    industries not used to bargaining with low-paid factory laborers, and used strikes as its primary
                    tool to motivate both workers and management. The size and violence of CIO-organized strikes shocked
                    many Americans and deeply troubled most Republicans. The Akron strikes of February and March 1936
                    provided a taste of what was to come. Thousands of workers walked out of the city's rubber
                    plants, touching off violence between strikers on one side and replace- ment workers, company
                    security personnel, and police on the other. Sit-down strikes against General Motors between
                    December 1936 and 
                        29Harry Hogan, Chicago, to Charles A. Halleck, September 3, 1938,
                            correspondence, box 3, CAH.
                        30Speech, September 7, 1938, correspondence, box 3, CAH; speech,
                            "The Workers' Increasing Share," September 12, 1938, ibid.;
                            speech, "The American Federation of Labor is a Good Citizen," September
                            17, 1938, ibid.; pamphlet, "The Labor Record of the Republican Party,"
                            ibid.
                        31William Green to Charles A. Halleck, March 28, 1940,
                            "Election Campaigns, 1938-1966" Box, CAH; Minneapolis
                            Tribune, May 11, 1940, Scrapbook, CAH.
                    
                     February 1937 left most Republicans and many Democrats aghast
                    that workers could not only occupy idle plants, but be treated leniently by the newly elected and
                    sympathetic Governor Frank Murphy of 
                        Michigan
                    . In the spring and summer of 1937 the CIO authorized massive strikes against hold-out
                    steel companies, resulting in a summer of violence throughout the Midwest that yielded eighteen dead
                    in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Republican legislators and a majority of the American public, used to a government
                    dedicated to protecting property rights rather than union-organizing rights, were horrified by the
                    violence of newly assertive, unionized workers. Company resistance and sharp divisions within unions
                    such as the United Auto Workers added to the levels of violence in 1937. Halleck lamented that the
                    strikes discouraged investment in business and that "government sanctioned"
                    factory take-overs prolonged the slump. Addressing a labor gathering in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he asked, "will not a higher degree of cooperation between employer and
                    employee, capital and labor go a long way towards putting 
                         America
                     back to work and preserving the American system of private enterprise and free
                        competition?"32 Dampening the violence that accompanied strikes and
                    restoring pacific labor relations remained key Republican goals after 1936.
                By 1938, popular and Congressional rejection of both Roosevelt's Supreme-Court-packing plan
                    and his proposal to reorganize the executive branch of government to his liking, had deflated much
                    of the voter support that FDR and the Democrats had gained since 1930. Republicans nearly doubled
                    their seats in the House (to 164) in that year's elections, and in the Senate they gained
                    by nearly fifty percent (to 23 seats.) The shift in 
                        Indiana
                     was even more dramatic: Halleck's party captured six seats won by Democrats in
                    1936, giving them seven of 
                        Indiana's
                     eleven seats. The enlarged Republican presence within Congress, combined with
                    emboldened conservative "Jeffersonian" Democrats, ended any hopes for new reform
                    initiatives by New Dealers. Within the administration, many officials and presidential advisors had
                    lost faith in government planning as a means to direct the economy and end the Depression.33 Roosevelt himself, as war in Europe drew near, 
                        32Norwalk Reflector-Herald, February 23, 1938,
                            Scrapbook, CAH; Vidette Messenger, September 20, 1938, ibid.; Zieger, The
                            CIO, 97-102. Ironically, Lewis remained a registered Republican all his life and in 1940
                            endorsed GOP presidential candidate Wendell Willkie.
                        33Brinkley, End of Reform, 103-04. On the rise of a
                            solid anti-New Deal block, see Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                            140-41.
                    
                     grew increasingly preoccupied by foreign affairs and devoted
                    less attention to domestic reforms. More importantly, FDR needed to court Anglophile southern
                    Democrats and northern Republicans to push his Eurocentric foreign policy in the face of stubborn
                    resistance by his populist former supporters from the West and Midwest, many of whom were
                    isolationists.
                Halleck endorsed the GOP platform of 1938, which called for revised funding for Social Security,
                    lower federal spending, revision of the Wagner Act to address complaints of business, and repeal or
                    revision of taxes introduced by Roosevelt in 1935. Most New Deal reforms were not even debated,
                    because Halleck and the GOP fully supported them. Halleck voted for Social Security, bank-deposit
                    insurance (FDIC), and federal guarantees of railroad retirement funds. He favored legislation that
                    evened the playing field between labor and corporations, but opposed tilting the field in favor of
                    labor. Otherwise, he wanted the market, not federal bureaucrats, to shape the economy. Thus, Halleck
                    and the GOP opposed acts designed to keep the NRA, the AAA, and the TVA alive. But mostly the GOP
                    assailed what Chairman Hamilton called "utopian visions from so-called experts and
                        brain-trusts."34 They did not like the New Deal administration.
                    Halleck's worst nightmare arrived with the Second World War, when the federal bureaucracy
                    massively intervened in the economy to assure a constant supply of materials to the military and a
                    fair distribution of scarce goods to civilians.
                Reflecting the general consensus in the Midwest, Halleck opposed actions that might draw the 
                        United States
                     into either the European or Asian wars, and in 1940 he ran on a "keep 
                        America
                     out of war" platform. The 
                        United States
                    , of course, did not stay out of the war, and the government-mandated conversion of
                    1940-1941 to a war economy raised many of the same bureaucratic problems seen previously in the New
                    Deal. The plethora of new boards, commissions, and offices cobbled together to manage war
                    production-without the discipline imposed by a free market-obsessed Halleck as he served on
                    committees to oversee the implementation of government orders.
                The story of Roosevelt's coordination of civilian production for the war effort is one of
                    chaos tempered by anarchy. As they had in response 
                        34Indianapolis Star, February 11, 1938, Scrapbook 4,
                            CAH; Logansport Press, October 27, 1938, ibid.; Washington
                                Times-Herald, March 27, 1939, ibid.
                    
                     to earlier New Deal reforms, Republicans-including Charles
                    Halleck-supported the war effort, but bridled at its cost and at the attendant expansion of federal
                    authority and employment. In an article published in December 1941, Halleck asserted that
                    war-related production already claimed twenty-three percent of factory capacity in the U.S., and
                    that that figure would climb to fifty-one percent in 1942.35 With federal
                    contracts for war-related goods swamping the market, rising prices and shortages of goods inevitably
                    beset the economy. To feed the military's appetite for supplies Congress enacted laws that
                    gave the government priority in purchasing materials. The thrown-together bureaucracy that
                    administered this procurement caused anguish and dismay among businessmen, especially small
                    businessmen, throughout 
                        America
                    . From his place on the Small Business Committee, Halleck observed their consternation
                    and frustration firsthand.
                Small businesses, cut off from access to supplies, charged the government with hoarding. Paint
                    contractors had no paint because Navy contractors had claimed almost all production. A musical
                    instrument manufacturer in 
                        Elkhart
                     and a milk-crate producer in 
                        Cincinnati
                     complained that they could not buy necessary raw materials and that they would have to
                    shut down.36 A manufacturer of refrigeration valves complained that his costs
                    had increased one hundredfold since the imposition of the government's Byzantine system for
                    ordering brass. Representatives of both the AFL and CIO complained about unemployment caused when
                    small plants were forced to shut down because of their inability to obtain parts or materials.37 Restaurateurs complained of acute labor shortages, fluctuating prices, food
                    rationing, and increased taxes, while a general contractor from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     wrote to Halleck that he had neither the time nor the personnel needed to fill out all
                    the forms sent to him by various government offices.38 All of these complaints
                    only 
                        35On chaos in the bureaucracy see Jesse H. Jones with Edward Angly,
                                Fifty Billion Dollars: My Thirteen Years with the RFC, 1932-1945 (
                                New York
                            , 1951), 270-73; John Kenneth Galbraith, A Life in Our Times:
                                Memoirs (
                                Boston
                            , 1981), 109-10; and David Brinkley, Washington Goes to War (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 62-72.
                        36Chicago Tribune, October 22, 1941, box 9, CAH; Indianapolis News, September 10, 1941, ibid.
                        37Testimony of Charles A. Livingston before Small Business Defense
                            Conference, 
                                Columbus
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , October 21, 1941, box 9, CAH; Cincinnati Enquirer, October
                            22, 1941, ibid.
                        38Vernon Stouffer, Pres. National Restaurant Association, to Charles
                            A. Halleck, November 11, 1942, box 9, CAH; A. C. Wermuth to Charles A. Halleck, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , December 17, 1942, ibid.
                    
                     fed Halleck's worst assumptions about bureaucrats and
                    government interference in business.
                While the war raged, Halleck could do little to satisfy the objections of petitioners other than haul
                    bureaucrats before his committee for extended tongue lashings. Like many who appealed to his
                    committee, he built up a reservoir of resentment against those whom he saw as arrogant and
                    irresponsible bureaucrats. This frustration would play out after the war in the form of merciless
                    harassment of federal employees in a hunt for communist scapegoats.
                The government had assumed a thankless, and probably impossible, task when it undertook to establish
                    price ceilings bureaucratically-perhaps one reason that the Office of Price Administration (OPA) had
                    three chiefs in less than two years. Economist John Kenneth Galbraith, asked by OPA head Leon
                    Henderson to take charge of the price-setting office in mid-year, did not think this herculean job
                    beyond his capabilities. Galbraith outlasted Henderson, but did not survive past May 1943, when he
                    was forced out, to the delight of Charles Halleck.39 Abrasive and sarcastic,
                    Galbraith typified the New Dealer so detested by Halleck and the Republicans. As
                    Galbraith's memoirs make clear, the feelings were mutual.40
                Americans caught up in the web of wartime regulations were upset not just by low prices and scarcity,
                    but by having to deal with 
                        Washington
                     bureaucrats whom they perceived as ill-informed or incompetent. Halleck put his
                    constituents' frustrations in graphic terms: The thing that
                        disturbs John Hoosier most of all is the constantly recurring report that government offices,
                        particularly the temporary war bureaus, are filled with a lot of long-haired boys with dirty
                        finger nails who are wasting the public money now and planning on wasting more later. He hears
                        that most of these fellows are impractical experimenters who have gotten their economic ideas in
                        classrooms and never had any practical business experience in their lives. There is a closely
                        knit tax-eating fraternity from Harvard and other Eastern schools that once having 
                            39Press release, May 28, 1943; NAM [National Association of
                                Manufacturers] News, June 12, 1943; Galbraith, Life in Our Times, 189.
                            40Galbraith, Life in Our Times, 125-90.
                        
                        
                        
                            A volunteer checking ceiling prices for the U.S. Office of Price
                                Administration, 1942 Photograph by Edward Gruber. Courtesy Library of Congress,
                                Prints & Photographs Division, FSA-OWI Collection, LC-USW3-055125-C
                         gotten its foot into the paymaster's door has brought in all other college
                        brothers who are free to come to 
                            Washington
                        . Now the capitol city is over-run with these dreamers.41
                Large businesses, like U.S. Steel or General Motors, could iron out problems simply by calling Jesse
                    Jones of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation-which acted as the funding agency for plant
                    expansion-or by having their Washington agent drop by his office.42 This option
                    was not available to small-business owners, who suffered the full range of difficulties of dealing
                    with 
                        Washington's
                     wartime bureaucratic chaos. If the OPA allowed manufacturers to raise their prices, the
                    increases had 
                        41Press release, February 8, 1943, box 1, CAH.
                        42Bowles, Promises to Keep, 74-75; Jones and Angly, Fifty Billion
                            Dollars, 321-25, 332-33, 336-37
                     to be absorbed by wholesalers and retailers-usually small
                    businesses ill-prepared to absorb losses. This arrangement provoked widespread resentment and anger
                    among retailers, who deluged Halleck's committee with complaining letters and testimony.43 Manufacturers, too, brought their complaints to Halleck's committee.
                    When raw cotton prices dipped, the OPA reduced the maximum price allowed to cotton-textile
                    manufacturers, provoking a bitter outburst from J. P. Stevens about bureaucratic despotism.44
                Americans were troubled in 1942 by news from the fronts. The successful invasion of French North
                    Africa by American and British forces came too late (as did the rousing British victory at 
                        El Alamein
                    ) to boost American morale, and thus Roosevelt's fortunes, in the November
                    balloting. In the 1942 elections the electorate swung heavily toward the GOP, giving Republicans
                    near-parity in the House, and handing the GOP control of a majority of state legislatures. The
                    RNC's Research Committee offered a dozen reasons for the GOP surge, half of them related to
                    government mismanagement of the home front.45
                While some of Halleck's supporters saw the electoral process as an opportunity to fight off
                    what one 
                        Illinois
                     lumber dealer called "such insane tactics as are now being used against the
                    American people,"46 Republicans' hopes for legislative
                    dominance were short-lived, diminished by increasingly positive news from the homefront. The party
                    lost eighteen House seats in 1944, while adding only one Senate seat. Plenty of Americans remained
                    angry about government management of the wartime economy, but many more were pleased to have good
                    paychecks made fatter by overtime work. Many voters likewise approved of the wartime expansion of
                    unions and of the protection and benefits they extended to workers. Thanks to the peculiarities of
                    state residency laws, the displacement of several million potential voters in the military and
                    massive shifts in population, the 1944 elections saw an overall fall-off in votes for both parties.
                    Demographic turmoil affected working-class Democrats more than it did farmers and businessmen, who
                    tended to 
                        43Small Business Committee folder, box 9, CAH.
                        44Galbraith, Life in Our Times, 137-38.
                        45The 1942 Election, A Statistical Analysis," Research
                            Division, RNC, n.d., box 9, CAH.
                        46J. E. Davis, Illinois Wartime Timber Marketing Committee, 
                                Urbana
                            , to Charles A. Halleck, November 11, 1943, with attached correspondence from J.
                            E. Anderson, box 9, CAH.
                    
                     stay put and who leaned toward the Republicans. Nevertheless,
                    the RNC was convinced that the Democrats had won the election by carrying Dixie and the largest
                    cities outside the South, and party leaders believed that so long as Democrats held those bastions
                    prospects for the GOP looked dim.47
                Halleck, hoping to overcome the odds, had campaigned for "a rededication of our national
                    government to the fundamental principles of true-blue Americanism," promising "to
                    smash tired and decadent New Dealism" and to install "down-to-earth
                    Americanism" in its place. Halleck assumed that large numbers of workers forced into
                    CIO-dominated unions resented communist influence within the unions and anti-Republican tirades in
                    CIO literature. He received a small number of letters voicing such complaints, but if he concluded
                    from them a general worker alienation from the CIO and, hence, the Democrats, he was wrong. While
                    Halleck retained his seat, the Democrats carried 
                        Indiana's
                     two largest industrial cities by large margins in 1944.48
                President Roosevelt's health was already failing during the 1944 campaign, and he ventured
                    little into public afterwards. He died on April 12, 1945, and Vice President Harry Truman took the
                    reins of power. When the war ended four months later, any sense of wartime partisan solidarity ended
                    with it. Halleck and others unleashed a barrage of caustic criticism against the way the federal
                    government had handled and continued to manage the nation's economy. In a speech in St.
                    Louis, Halleck demanded that "business must be freed from the incessant and demoralizing
                    meddling of socialist bureaucrats." In 
                        Akron
                    , he continued: "All of us in wartime voluntarily submitted to governmental
                    controls and the broad, blundering supervision of our personal lives. Yet the necessities of war
                    served to only accelerate a trend which already existed in the New Deal administration before the
                    war. That record being carried forward today promises only continued assaults on American Freedom,
                    if the New Deal continues in power." In a Lincoln Day speech delivered in 
                        San Diego
                    , Halleck proclaimed that "free Americans then will be fol- 
                        47"Analysis of 1944 Election," n.d., box 9, CAH.
                        48Charles A. Halleck to "fellow workers," October
                            17, 1944, box 9, CAH; Charles W. Bell, 
                                Dayton
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , to Franklin D. Roosevelt, October 11, 1944, ibid.; notes, November 3, 1944,
                            ibid.; Report of Indiana Republican State Central Committee, November 29, 1944, ibid.;
                            Charles A. Halleck, Chairman of Republican Congressional Committee, to unidentified
                            recipients, December 6, 1944, ibid.
                    
                     lowing the road to serfdom under rigid governmental controls in
                    every department of their lives." Warming to his theme, he continued, "debt is
                    slavery . . . excessive taxes is slavery . . . bureaucracy is slavery.49
                In 1946, reacting to waves of postwar strikes and a sharp spike in inflation after the abolition of
                    many price controls, aided by widespread Democratic abstention from the polls, American voters
                    elected the first Republican-controlled Congress since 1930. Halleck's position as chairman
                    of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee had served him well in a year when he handed out
                    party funds for reelections, and many congressmen owed him a debt of gratitude. Party money,
                    conviviality, and a well-deserved reputation for hard work and tenacity earned him election as House
                    Majority Leader, giving him enormous power in shaping the legislative agenda. With 246 seats, the
                    Republicans had a clear advantage over the 188 Democrats, and could count on the support of numerous
                    southern Democrats to favor proposals to restore some states' rights. But rather than gut
                    the New Deal, the Republican Congress initiated a limited program of reform designed to redress
                    their principal objections of the last fifteen years. Announcing their intentions for the upcoming
                    Eightieth Congress they promised to lower taxes, cut expenses, curb presidential power, promote
                    housing construction, end shortages in consumer goods, return powers to the states, and reform labor
                        laws.50
                In his maiden speech as Majority Leader, Halleck called for less government interference in business
                    decisions, more government intervention in labor disputes, and no communists in the government. In
                    speech after speech Halleck railed against budget deficits, high taxes, foreign
                    "give-aways," and communists in the bureaucracy. He rarely attacked specific
                    government programs, instead targeting "New Deal bureaucrats" and vowing to uproot
                    "reds and fellow travelers" from government payrolls. "We got the
                    government out of the red," Halleck pro- claimed, "and now we're getting
                    the reds out of the government."51
                
                    49Lincoln Day speech, 
                            San Diego
                        , February 12, 1946, box 1, CAH; speech to 
                            Missouri
                         Republicans, St. Louis, February 9, 1946, box 3, CAH; speech before Federation of
                        Republican Women's Organizations, 
                            Akron
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , April 4, 1946, ibid.
                    50Press release of Joseph Martin, November 14, 1946, box 1, CAH; speech at
                        Indiana Society dinner, 
                            Chicago
                        , February 22, 1947, ibid.
                    51Speech before Congress, January 3, 1947, box 3, CAH; McKinley Day speech
                        in 
                            Niles
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , January 31, 1947, ibid.; speech before Indiana Chamber of Commerce, French Lick,
                        March 29,
                
                
                A wave of monstrous postwar strikes led by the CIO against most of America's biggest
                    corporations (including General Motors, U. S. Steel, and General Electric) only encouraged the
                    Republican Congress to take on the Wagner Act. On the first day of the new session in 1947, Halleck
                    and Fred Hartley (R.-NJ) submitted a bill to the House Education and Labor Committee to amend the
                    Wagner Act. The bill, as ultimately enacted, is still known as the Taft-Hartley Act (Robert Taft
                    shepherded a version through the Senate) and although amended several times, it remains, along with
                    the Wagner Act, the foundation of federal law governing unions and strikes. Its main provisions
                    called for federal supervision of union-certification votes, a separate judicial board to hear
                    appeals of NLRB decisions, bans of secondary boycotts and closed shops, the right for the president
                    to call for a sixty-day "cooling-off period" between the breakdown of negotiations
                    and strikes, and certification that union officers are not communists. Even President Truman had
                    called for reform of the Wagner Act as part of an effort to cut the number of strikes, which he
                    feared would derail the postwar recovery. When the bill passed by a clearly veto-proof 320 votes in
                    the House (to 79 "nays") and a 54-to-17 vote in the Senate, Truman declared
                    himself unhappy with its "anti-labor" final product, and vetoed the bill. Truman
                    was able to have his cake and eat it too: he could claim to stand with union labor by vetoing a bill
                    he wanted to pass, with full assurance that his veto would be overwhelmed. Truman eventually invoked
                    the act 147 times to avoid strikes.52
                The Eightieth Congress did manage to lower taxes in the face of presidential vetoes (some of which
                    were overridden), to cut federal expenses (a little), to end most price controls, to submit a
                    twenty-second amendment to the constitution limiting presidents to two terms (ratified in 1951), and
                    to put former president Herbert Hoover in charge of a commission to suggest ways to increase
                    efficiency in the federal bureaucracy. It even passed balanced budgets for fiscal 1947 and 1948
                    (each year left a slight surplus). The Congress also instituted numerous committee investigations
                    designed to purge the federal government of alleged communists. None of these acts in any way eroded
                    the power of 
                        1947, ibid.; speech before New Jersey State Republican Finance Committee, Newark, April
                            25, 1947, ibid.
                        52Taft-Hartley Act folder, box 10, CAH; James T. Patterson, Mr. Republican; A Biography of Robert A. Taft, (Boston, 1972), 352-66;
                            Zieger, The CIO, 302; Scheele, Charlie Halleck,
                        115.
                    
                     the federal government; they simply limited its continued
                    expansion. New Deal-era reforms left intact by the Supreme Court remained untouched, while further
                    reforms-such as Roosevelt's proposed "Economic Bill of Rights," an
                    extension of the TVA program to other major river basins, or Truman's proposals for
                    universal health care-had never progressed far in the past under Democrats and stood no chance of
                    real consideration under Republican congressional control.53
                Yet key New Deal reforms remained safe from Republican gutting because most Americans, including most
                    Republicans, supported them. During the Roosevelt presidency Halleck had criticized actual New Deal
                    legislation only infrequently, preferring instead to disparage the anonymous bureaucracy that it had
                    spawned, and he continued to do so once the Republicans won control of Congress. After his
                    party's 1946 victory, he told an Ohio audience that the American people had
                    "effectively proclaimed to the New Dealers, and all others of their ilk, that they have had
                    enough of waste and extravagance, enough coddling of communists and political favoritism, enough of
                    strikes and class warfare, and enough of bungling and confusion, debts and taxes." He
                    announced that the Republicans proposed to cut federal employees from a wartime high of 3.6 million
                    to 2.3 million, and then they would cut more: "Communists, fellow travelers and all who
                    prefer the communistic system, or any other form of absolutism, must be-and will be-removed from the
                    positions they obtained through the New Deal." To accomplish their goal of purging
                    communists, Halleck and House Republicans, joined by most Demcrats, gave unflinching support to the
                    House Committee on Un-American Activities which soon turned its attention from the federal
                    bureaucracy to Hollywood. Congress also enacted a variety of laws intended to identify and oust
                    communists from the federal bureaucracy.54
                Congress enjoyed the overall cooperation and support of the Truman administration. In November 1946,
                    Truman signed Executive Order 9806, creating the President's Temporary Commission on
                    Employee Loyalty; his Executive Order 9835, signed in 1947, created a permanent Loyalty Review Board
                    within the Civil Service Commission. Ultimately, 212 federal employees were dismissed for running
                    afoul of 
                        53On the "Economic Bill of Rights," see James
                            MacGregor Burns, Roosevelt: The Soldier of Freedom (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 424-26; and Harry S. Truman, Memoirs, Vol. 2: Years of
                                Trial and Hope, 2 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 21-24.
                        54Speech, February 1, 1947, 
                                Niles
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , box 1, CAH.
                    
                     the security and loyalty commission, and a few thousand more
                    resigned after being investigated. While this was as close as Halleck and the Republicans could get
                    to "cleaning out 
                        Washington
                    ," Halleck claimed that they had "exposed communist infiltration in a
                    minority of labor unions and in the Hollywood film industry; caused jailing of communists for
                    contempt . . . landed top Soviet Russia agents in jail and advanced legislation for public
                    registration of alien-controlled communists."55
                Ironically, Halleck's crusade against communists and fellow travelers was the culmination of
                    earlier battles between Congressional Republicans and New Deal advisors, the vast majority of whom
                    had left their federal posts. Rexford Tugwell, soundly hated by most congressional conservatives,
                    had left the government at the end of 1936. Although he returned to serve as governor of Puerto Rico
                    during the war, he remained far removed from the 
                        Washington
                     scene. Tommy Corcoran and Benjamin Cohen, responsible for much of the acrimony
                    surrounding the Utility Holding Companies Act and the court-packing plan, had both returned to
                    private law practice by 1942. Once president, Truman was not inclined to staff his White House and
                    federal departments with the same kind of colorful characters favored by Roosevelt. Harry Hopkins
                    resigned soon after Truman took the helm, and Harold Ickes quit as Secretary of Interior in February
                    1946. John Kenneth Galbraith, who had proudly raised Congressional hackles during his 
                        Washington
                     years, left the capital in 1946 to write for Forbes magazine. Henry
                    Wallace was forced out as Secretary of Commerce in fall 1946 after a bitter disagreement with Truman
                    over relations with the Soviet Union.
                Even though many of the conflicts between congressmen and Roosevelt's staff had thus
                    resolved themselves before the Republicans took control of the Eightieth Congress, the New
                    Deal's legacy remained strong, providing postwar Republicans with a continued source of
                    irritation. As he sought to summarize the accomplishments of the Eightieth Congress, Halleck
                    continued to frame the Republicans' efforts as a victory against entrenched bureaucracy and
                    fiscal excess. He characterized 
                        55Pamphlet, C. A. Halleck, "The 80th Congress
                            Delivers" (Republican National Committee, 
                                Washington,
                                D.C.
                             , n.d.), box 10, CAH; David McCullough, Truman (
                                New York
                            , 1992), 552; David Caute, The Great Fear: The Anti-Communist Purge
                                Under Truman and Eisenhower (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 269.
                    
                     the New Deal administration as "a radical-minded
                    administration driving for ever-increasing control and authority over the lives of our citizens . .
                    . rapidly chipping away our freedoms and liberties." In contrast, the Republican Congress
                    had "freed competitive enterprise, liberated the people from 76,000 rules, regulations,
                    directives, and orders," resulting in a record $200 billion national income. They had
                    reduced the Federal budget to provide a $8.5 billion surplus for fiscal 1948, and cut the debt by $7
                    billion. They had overridden a presidential veto to cut taxes by $4.8 billion, and trimmed $7
                    billion from Truman's "padded budgets." By 1947 the funding mechanism for
                    Social Security was moot, so Republicans left it alone and increased payments by five dollars per
                        month.56 At the same time, Halleck lambasted Truman's efforts to
                    keep economic controls in place after the war emergency had passed, and took credit for leading a
                    revolt against unpopular anti-inflationary measures pushed by the White House, such as consumer
                    credit controls, which limited installment buying. Far from dismantling federal programs for rural
                    electrification, flood control, road building, and the like, Halleck boasted in the 1948 election
                    campaign that the most recent Congress had approved big programs for farmers, rural electrification,
                    and rural roads, including a $400,000,000 flood control appropriation, passed over presidential
                        veto.57 In other words, Halleck boasted that the Republican Eightieth
                    Congress continued vast public works programs and carried on subsidizing farmers while restoring
                    orthodox fiscal policies-aiming at a balanced budget-and leaving New Deal reforms untouched.
                The Taft-Hartley law has been famously unpopular within union and academic circles, yet, like most
                    New Deal reforms, it remains on the books sixty years later and is no more likely to be rescinded
                    than the Securities and Exchange Commission.58 Nevertheless, the Taft-Hartley
                        
                        56Halleck, "The 80th Congress Delivers!"
                        57Ibid.
                        58Historians typically portray Taft-Hartley as a conservative assault
                            upon labor. See, for example, David Plotke, Building a Democratic Political
                                Order: Reshaping American Liberalism in the 1930s and 1940s (New York, 1996),
                            226-36; Zieger, The CIO, 245-52; Bell, Liberal State on
                            Trial, 55-57; Alonzo L. Hamby, The Imperial Years, The United States since
                                1939 (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 147. Some historians give Taft-Hartley an even-handed discussion. See
                            Finegold and Skocpol, State and Party, 139-40; Irwin Unger, Recent 
                                     America
                                , 
                                     The United States
                                 since 1945 (Upper 
                                Saddle River
                            , 
                                NJ.
                            , 2002), 33. James T. Patterson, Grand Expectations, 
                                     The United States
                                 1945- 1974 (
                                New York
                            , 1996), 50, notes that the bill had little adverse impact on unions.
                        Marxist
                    
                     Law explains why the CIO made a concerted effort to get out its
                    voters in 1948 and circulated an unprecedented amount of election material favoring Truman and the
                    Democrats. A huge turnout by Democratic voters helped to place the party back in charge of both the
                    House and the Senate in 1948.59 Halleck was reelected, but he lost his position
                    as Republican leader in the House after 
                        Massachusetts
                     Republican Joseph Martin, ousted as Speaker, demanded his old job back.
                    Martin's move left Halleck without any official position until 1953 when, with the
                    Republicans once more in charge, he again became Majority Leader-but this time for only two years.
                    Democrats retook the House in 1955, and held it until 1995, eight years after Halleck's
                    death. Until Halleck voluntarily left Congress in 1968, he continued to rail against big, expensive
                    government and high taxes, while approving public works like airports, flood control projects, and
                    the Burns Harbor port on Lake
                    Michigan .
                Republicans embraced New Deal reforms that buttressed the American financial system, secured
                    citizens' income, and were compatible with the free-market economy, and such programs went
                    unmolested by the Eightieth Congress. Nevertheless, after the war Republicans like Halleck refused
                    to entertain Keynesian-inspired policies to stimulate the economy through tax cuts and lavish
                    government spending. Halleck wanted to cut both taxes and government spending, which Keynesians
                    warned would invite a new depression. Neither group achieved all of their goals, but a new
                    depression never came. By the time Republicans once again captured both houses of Congress, in 1994,
                    confidence in Keynesian ideas had waned among Democrats and nearly evaporated among Republicans.60
                The Depression had dealt a smashing blow to deep-seated beliefs among Americans of both parties about
                    "sound money" and the principle of frugal government. Some political leaders, such
                    as Charles 
                        labor historian Nelson Lichtenstein admits that Taft-Hartley was not that bad for a
                            product of a capitalist system; The Most Dangerous Man in 
                                    Detroit
                                : Walter Reuther and the Fate of American Labor (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 261-62.
                        59Zieger gives a succinct account of the CIOs political response to
                            Taft-Hartley, The CIO, 248- 52.
                        60Faith in Keynesian economics ebbed under the double blows of 1970s
                            "stagflation" and monetarist successes of the 1980s and 1990s. However,
                            Keynesian ideas are currently staging a comeback, helped by the Nobel Prize in Economics
                            awarded in 2001 to the stridently Keynesian economist Joseph E. Stiglitz.
                    
                     Halleck, held to their beliefs as long as possible, but
                    ultimately bowed to new thinking amid the realities of the economic crisis and the Second World War.
                    Even after a Depression and a World War, however, Halleck continued to believe that the government
                    did some things, like setting prices and allocating goods, very badly; once a particular emergency
                    had passed, he encouraged the government to abandon such functions as quickly as possible. But many
                    other programs that had been adopted by the government during the 1930s, such as Social Security,
                    the FDIC, federal mortgage insurance, and the SEC, were praised and embraced by Halleck and other
                    Republicans, who probably would not have accepted them without the massive shock of the Depression.
                    As for sprawling government bureaucracies that ate up huge appropriations, Congressman Halleck could
                    neither champion nor overcome these legacies of the New Deal.
            
            
            
                REVIEW ESSAY
                Engulfed by the Past History and Experience at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum
                KEITH A. EREKSON
                Our trip to the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum (ALPLM) in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , began familiarly enough.1 As a historian married to a former high
                    school history teacher, I have grown accustomed to the need to preempt the boredom that afflicts our
                    six-and four-year-old daughters each time we drag them to historic sites and events. I herded the
                    children up to the first display, a timeline of events in flowing script, and searched for
                    something-anything-that might draw them into the story. I spied a reference to young Abe's
                    being kicked in the head by a horse, but before I could launch into the tale, my oldest 
                        Keith A. Erekson is a doctoral candidate in U.S. history at Indiana University and
                            assistant editor of the IMH. His dissertation explores why people like history and features
                            the Lincoln theme in the historical activities of Americans in the 1920s and 1930s. He would
                            like to thank ALPLM staff members Bryon Andreasen, Jenny Ericson, Clare Tharp, and Jill
                            Burwitz.
                        1The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum occupy two city
                            blocks at 212 North Sixth St., 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                IL
                             62701, http://www.alplm.org.
                    
                    
                        The Museum Plaza This central area juxtaposes young Abe reading in front
                            of his boyhood cabin with the Lincoln family at the White House. Courtesy Abraham
                            Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum
                     poked her head out of the nearby life-sized reconstruction of the Lincoln
                    family's Indiana cabin and yelled, "Hey, come in here."
                The transition from looking at text on the wall to stepping into the cabin
                    foreshadows the visitor experience at the Lincoln Museum. The $90 million facility, which opened to
                    the public on April 19, 2005, engulfs its visitors in a sophisticated, twenty-first-century
                    rendition of Lincoln's world. While the overall effect has laid the museum open to
                    controversy, our family's visit suggests to me that the ALPLM succeeds in informing and
                    inspiring a broad public audience.
                An open plaza greets visitors, offering central access to the theaters, 40,000 square feet of
                    permanent exhibition spaces, cafe, gift shop, and exploration room for children. This design allows
                    families to alternate forays into the exhibits and shows with stops for the kids at the restrooms
                    and in a play area named "Mrs. Lincoln's Attic" that features dress-up
                    clothes, pioneer toys, a dollhouse patterned after the Lincoln Home in 
                        Springfield
                    , and, of course, Lincoln Logs.
                The permanent exhibition space consists of three major galleries. Journey One: The
                        Pre-Presidential Years presents Lincoln's life from 
                        Indiana
                    , through 
                        New Salem
                     and 
                        Springfield
                    , to his departure for 
                        Washington
                    . In Journey Two: The White House Years, visitors find depictions of
                    the Civil War, national politics, 
                        Washington
                     society, the Lincolns' family life, and the assassination and funeral
                    procession. In contrast to these narrative galleries, the Treasures Gallery evokes
                    a dis-  tinctly worshipful mood. Having completed the two
                    historical "journeys," visiting pilgrims enter the museum's holy of
                    holies to gaze upon a small collection of the Lincoln family's personal belongings,
                    including Abe's shaving mirror, Mary's wedding dress, Tad's toy cannon,
                    and the family's dishes. A twenty-five-foot-high shimmering gold partition further
                    demarcates the center of the gallery as an inner sanctum that guards a signed copy of the
                    Emancipation Proclamation, the handwritten "Everett" copy of the Gettysburg
                    Address, and the leather portfolio in which the president carried his papers.
                The ALPLM has received much attention for its technological innovations (in the museum's
                    words, "combining traditional scholarship with twenty-first-century
                        showmanship").2 The State of 
                        Illinois
                     hired 
                        California
                    -based BRC Imagination Arts-the designer of attractions for clients including the Henry
                    Ford Museum, NASA, and Walt Disney's Epcot Center-to overturn traditional museum
                    expectations by creating an "immersive," "experience-based
                        attraction."3 It is this blend of history with technology that has
                    dominated public discussions of the museum, for critics and fans alike. The Union Theater, for
                    example, presents an eighteen-minute film about "Lincoln's Eyes" in which
                    portrait painter Richard Doyle suggests reasons for the joy, sadness, and weariness visible in
                    photographs of the president's face. As a barrage of images flash in rapid succession
                    across three wrap-around screens, the seats shake, the surround-sound rumbles, and cannons emit
                    smoke. Across the plaza in the Holavision Theater, the nine-minute "Ghosts of the
                    Library" production combines a live actor with physical props and digital technology to
                    depict a historian who first imagines the people whose lives are recorded in the documents, then
                    dreams of meeting and touching Lincoln, and then finally disappears in a revelation that he actually
                    died at 
                        Vicksburg
                     and is himself only imagined by the audience. After surviving cannon 
                        2David LaGesse, "Honest Abe, Flesh and Blood," U.S. News & World Report, February 14, 2005; Bob Thompson,
                            "Histrionics And History: Lincoln Library's High-Tech Exhibits Have
                            Scholars Choosing Sides," Washington Post, February 15, 2005;
                            Cheryl Corley, "Lincoln Museum Goes High-Tech with History," National Public Radio, Morning Edition, April 1, 2005; Jayne Clark,
                            "Lincoln's Spirit Lives in New Museum," USA
                            Today, April 19, 2005; Edward Rothstein, "Strumming the Mystic Chords of
                            Memory," New York Times, April 19, 2005; Kristin Kloberdanz,
                            "Reimagining Abe," Time, April 25, 2005.
                        3The BRC Imagination Arts web page may be found at
                            http://www.brcweb.com. For their promotion of the ALPLM see Scott Ault,
                            "It's Showtime, Mr. President," Fun World,
                            February 2003 (at http://www.funworldmagazine.com) and Jeff Rosen, "Rewriting
                            History," Attractions Management, Jan 2004 (at
                            http://www.atractionsmanagement.com).
                    
                     fire and nearly touching Lincoln, my daughters were far less
                    impressed by the "Ask Mr. Lincoln" display, in which pre-recorded
                    children's voices pose questions that are answered on a pre-recorded video screen- how
                    quickly they had become socialized to the immersive experience!
                Even before the museum opened to the public, some critics had already disparaged it, media displays
                    and all, with the dismissive D-word (Disney).4 In fact, however, the
                    technological elements are clearly demarcated from the historical. The glitziest productions appear
                    outside of the exhibition galleries in the theaters, and those technological features that do appear
                    within the galleries remain physically separated from other exhibit items. For example, a wonderful
                    digital map which traces Civil War troop movements and battles at a pace of one week per second to
                    illustrate "The Civil War in Four Minutes" sits high on the wall, clearly
                    separated from the soldiers' uniforms below. Similarly, visitors leave the flow of Journey One to enter a small twenty-first-century television control room in which
                    Tim Russert reports the issues of the campaign of 1860 by presenting brief, clever, and visually
                    engaging cam- paign ads to illustrate those complex issues much more effectively than written text.
                    For our part, the only time we felt as if we were at Disneyland was while in line for the
                    "Ghosts of the Library" show, where, after standing for several minutes in dim
                    light with dozens of strangers, we were startled by the blare of televisions advertising the
                    Presidential Library across the street.5
                While the digital technology dazzles, visitors may find themselves more moved by the innovative
                    application of such "old-fashioned" media as mannequins, murals, and multi-sensory
                    displays. Fourteen of 
                        4Historian John Simon and architectural critic Blair Kamin made the
                            charge. "John Y. Simon: Sober Grants and Rubber Lincolns," Civil War Talk Radio, December 17, 2004; Blair Kamin, "Lincoln
                            Land," Chicago Tribune, April 10, 2005. Art historian John R.
                            Decker and historian Myron Marty respond. John R. Decker, "Review of the Abraham
                            Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum," The Journal of American
                                History 92, no. 3 (Dec 2005); Myron Marty, "Review of the Abraham Lincoln
                            Presidential Library and Museum," The Public Historian: A Journal of
                                Public History 28, no. 3 (Summer 2006), 185-89. For a thoughtful analysis of the
                            relationship between media, museums, and history see Mike Wallace, Mickey Mouse
                                History and Other Essays on American Memory (
                                Philadelphia
                            : Temple University Press, 1996).
                        5I should disclose that I had already received a personal tour of the
                            Presidential Library the previous day. Jenny Ericson showed me firsthand the super-secret
                            vault, Abe's canes, Mary's dress, dozens of Lincoln broadsides and
                            artwork, eight miles of moveable stacks, and conservation and microfilm rooms. The
                            library's impressive collections are showcased in Richard Carwardine,
                            "Abraham Lincoln's Library," History Today 53,
                            no. 2 (February 2003).
                    
                    
                    
                        The Slave Auction Varied lighting, bright color, and dramatic action
                            characterize the museums many dioramas. Courtesy Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library
                            and Museum
                     the twenty-nine focus points in the two journey exhibitions feature life- sized fiberglass
                    figures with silicone skin and a mix of synthetic and real hair. A wonderful advance over the
                    traditional wax-featured, moth-eaten mannequins, the subjects of these brightly colored dioramas
                    pose in mid-action-John Wilkes Booth stealthily reaches for the door into the box at Ford's
                    Theater, and Willie and Tad play baseball with an inkwell and broom in their father's law
                        office.6 Most are visible from two or three sides, and my six-year-old
                    daughter walked around the diorama of a New Orleans slave auction to a point from which she could
                    see the face of the Simon Legree-like purchaser who is wrenching a man away from his wife and crying
                    child. Looking into his eyes she announced, "He looks evil!"
                
                    6These are the "rubber Lincolns" which John Y. Simon did
                        not see but nevertheless so notably named." John Y. Simon: Sober Grants and Rubber
                        Lincolns."
                
                
                Several colorful and richly detailed murals punctuate the journey. In the Gettysburg room I found my
                    four-year-old entranced by the eight- foot-tall, forty-two-foot-wide concave mural-a throwback to
                    that earliest of "immersive" technologies, the late nineteenth-century cyclorama.
                    Elsewhere, a mural depicting Lincoln's departure from 
                        Springfield
                     is carefully positioned behind life-sized cutouts of human shapes, over whose shoulders
                    or under whose arms one must strain to catch a glimpse of the departing president-elect.
                From first step to last, the exhibition galleries present an engulfing combination of multi-sensory
                    stimuli. Bright colors carry the eye from one display to the next. Cheerful lighting illuminates the
                    goods for sale in Lincoln's New Salem store, while variations of dimness enshroud Willie on
                    his deathbed and Abraham in his casket. Music, laughing, snoring, rain drops, and shouting voices
                    fill one's ears, while a blast of heat greets visitors in the White House kitchen and a
                    cold chill slithers through the open window into which a mourning mother Mary stares. Visitors may
                    finger the cold steel of slave shackles as well as the deepening lines of age and stress in copies
                    of castings of Lincoln's face made in 1861 and 1865. In the "Hall of
                    Whispers" visitors find mocking political cartoons in warped picture frames, accented by
                    slanted light and whispering voices of criticism. The experience brings to mind Lincoln's
                    reply when asked why he read aloud: "When I read aloud two senses catch the idea: first, I
                    see what I read; second, I hear it, and therefore I can remember it better."7
                The multi-sensory exhibits also evoke great pathos. Eavesdropping on Abe and Mary in
                    Willie's bedroom one cannot help but empathize with the first couple over the impending
                    loss of their second child. Gazing at Lincoln's casket lying in state in the cavernous,
                    ninety-five- percent-scale recreation of the House Chamber of the Old State Capitol in Springfield,
                    we were so swept away by the torch-lit atmosphere and somber strains of "The Battle Hymn of
                    the Republic" that my wife responded to our four-year-old's excited description of
                    another exhibit with, "Shhh. You must be reverent."
                Hoosiers wondering how their pioneer boy has been treated in this 
                        Illinois
                     museum can rest assured; while Lincoln's native 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    
                        7William H. Herndon and Jessie W. Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, edited by Douglas L. Wilson and Rodney O. Davis (
                                Urbana
                            : University of Illinois Press, 2006), 207.
                    
                     receives almost no coverage, 
                        Indiana
                     appears prominently. Entering the central plaza visitors see a full-scale reproduction
                    of Thomas Lincoln's 
                        Indiana
                     cabin juxtaposed with a one-third-scale recreation of the south portico of the White
                    House. Abe's flatboat journey from Rockport in 1828 launches the visitor into the first
                    gallery, and the first loud crack heard (and felt) in the Union Theater production depicts
                    Abe's early horse-kick. Beginning in his own lifetime with campaign literature suggesting
                    that any boy could become president, Lincoln's boyhood has served as a foil for his
                    presidential greatness. Yet in this museum one finds neither the "putrid pool" of
                    William Herndon's early biography, nor the chest-pounding pride of some early
                    twentieth-century Hoosiers.8 If the ALPLM makes any interpretation of
                    Lincoln's 
                        Indiana
                     years, it does so by selective isolation. Here we meet a solitary boy who reads on a
                    stump or alone by a fire. His father is not shiftless or lazy, he is simply absent. Nancy's
                    death is merely mentioned, and Abe tells no jokes because there are no neighbors to listen. The
                    scholarship of the past thirty years, which has turned to Lincoln's boyhood in search of
                    the roots of his "inner world" psyche, his "romantic cultural
                    politics," and his public and private virtues, remains unengaged.9
                As a historian, I note that some observers have identified anachronisms, from the modernizing of the
                    words of John Wilkes Booth and Frederick Douglass, to the substitution of a U.S. flag for that of
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     33rd Regiment, to the closing (wisely done) of Lincoln's casket.10 In some instances, the process of historical analysis is engaged only superficially:
                    the painter narrating "Lincoln's Eyes," for example, brushes off the
                    question of Abe and Mary's troubled marriage with a wink and the wisecrack that
                    "they had four kids so there must have been something there." The detective-like
                    historian in the "Ghosts of the Library" presentation finds a diary that literally
                    comes to life and 
                        8Herndon and Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, 4;
                            Indiana Lincoln Union, Lincoln the Hoosier: A Restatement of Some Facts that
                                Too Many Folks Seem to Have Forgotten (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927).
                        9Thomas is not technically absent, for he is sleeping in the cabin,
                            and he and Nancy are pictured in the children's play area. Michael Burlingame, The Inner World of Abraham Lincoln (
                                Urbana
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1994); Stewart Winger, Lincoln, Religion, and Romantic Cultural
                                Politics (
                                DeKalb
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 2003); William Lee Miller, Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical
                                Biography (
                                New York
                            , 2002). For a brief assessment of the museum's selective isolation of
                            Lincolns record on race see Christi Parsons and Ray Long, "Museum Pulls No
                            Punches," Chicago Tribune, April 19, 2005.
                        10Ray Long, "What would Honest Abe say?" Chicago Tribune, April 14, 2005; Thompson, "Histrionics and
                            History"; Kamin, "Lincoln Land."
                     tells its own story without any need for verification,
                    corroboration, or analysis.
                As a reviewer, I cannot help but notice the impact of the museum on visitors, on the community, and
                    on the history-museum world in general. Six months after opening, the ALPLM welcomed its 400,000th
                    visitor, and the 1,000,000th passed through the doors in January 2007. Our visit in October 2006
                    allowed us to attend the 10,000th showing of the "Ghosts of the Library"
                    production. Springfield businesses have reported a rise in revenues and local planners are working
                    to turn the museum's success to the service of a thorough downtown revitalization. Contrary
                    to early predictions, more people are visiting the Lincoln historic sites in 
                        Springfield
                    , as well as in nearby 
                        New Salem
                     and Decatur.11 From a collecting standpoint, the museum's
                    opening prompted important artifact donations: Lincoln's leather attache, the wedding
                    necklace he gave Mary, and a survey he performed in 
                        New Salem
                    .12 Most tellingly, success in 
                        Springfield
                     has prompted the directors of George Washington's Mount Vernon estate to
                    follow suit (and, in the process, to earn their first D-word from the historical critics).13
                Finally, as a father, I left the museum extremely pleased. Our four-year-old liked
                    "everything," and the oldest asked if we could live there and sleep in the log
                    house. One month later, I mentioned to them my work on this review; their eyes immediately lit up as
                    detailed memories poured out to engulf us once more in the museum's world. I mentioned the
                    slave auction diorama and the oldest described the family's pain, the purchaser's
                    face, the steel shackles on the wall, the photograph of a whipped slave's lacerated back.
                    As I listened to her recollections I thought about Abe, reading aloud and "remembering
                    better."
                
                    11Tim Landis and Natalie Morris, "Tourism Booming," [
                            Springfield
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        ] State Journal-Register, July 21, 2005; James Krohe, Jr.,
                        "Old Abe Causes Stir," Planning (December 2005), 48-49;
                        Marty, "Review of the ALPLM," 188. John Simon and Harold Holzer both expressed
                        concerns that people would forgo visiting the authentic sites in favor of the museum.
                        "John Y. Simon: Sober Grants and Rubber Lincolns"; Patrick T. Reardon,
                        "A New Focus on Lincoln's Story," Chicago Tribune,
                        April 12, 2005.
                    12Miriam Di Nunzio, "Lincoln Legacy," Chicago Sun-Times, August 21, 2005.
                    13The influence of the ALPLM is noted in Nathan Thornburgh,
                        "History Goes Hollywood," Time, September 18, 2006, 64-65;
                        "Mount Vernon Provides New Look at George Washington," CNN.com, November 15, 2006. Philip Kennicott, "Additions Give Mount Vernon The
                        Feel of Yesterdayland," Washington Post, October 24, 2006.
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                
                    Fragile Alliances Labor and Politics in 
                            Evansville
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        , 1919-1955 By Samuel W White (
                        Westport
                    , 
                        Conn.
                    : Praeger Publishers, 2005. Pp. xii, 208. Tables, bibliography, index. $119.95.)
                Historians exploring organized labor's decline during recent decades have increasingly
                    turned their attention to politics. Few, however, have observed the axiom that "all
                    politics is local"; most have focused more on national politics and organizations. Samuel
                    W. White's Fragile Alliances reflects the growing interest in labor and
                    politics at a local level. White explores the "fragile alliances" 
                        Evansville
                     unions made with politicians in the years between the end of World War I and the 1955
                    merger of the AFL and CIO, as well as the equally fragile alliances that lay at the heart of both
                    organized labor and the Democratic Party. He provides useful insights into the successes and
                    failures unions experienced in their engagement with electoral politics, and important suggestions
                    about the reasons that labor failed, even at the height of its strength, to fundamentally reshape
                    the nation's politics.
                The bulk of Fragile Alliances is devoted to a chronological survey of
                    labor's engagement with local politics. While the full details are too complex to summarize
                    here, the general course of labor's political fortunes is fairly straightforward-and
                    frequently at odds with the trajectory plotted by those studying labor politics at the national
                    level.
                Labor entered the postwar period strong and politically engaged. After the war, changing public
                    opinion, the disastrous 1919 coal strike, political mistakes, Americanism's appeal to many
                    working people (in such guises as forced Americanization, the American Plan, and the Ku Klux Klan),
                    and the lure of consumerism combined to bring dramatic changes. By the end of the 1920s, labor was
                    politically weak and divided.
                The 1930s saw an upsurge in organizing and the return of labor 
                    issues to politics. But 
                        Evansville's
                     story bears limited resemblance to the bright tales of victory that so often appear in
                    the histories of this period. While local unions enjoyed substantial organizing success, they might
                    have achieved much more but for a combination of determined employer resistance and bitter
                    infighting between the AFL and CIO. Labor factionalism, combined with political fracture lines
                    dividing the groups that elsewhere solidly supported the New Deal, prevented the Democratic Party
                    from building a strong, durable coalition. Even at the height of the New Deal, the local party was a
                    fragile alliance, as was organized labor.
                This state of affairs continued during and after World War II. Jurisdictional battles pitted unions
                    against one another, as did the issue of communism. Employer resistance continued unabated. And the
                    Democratic Party experienced significant defections, including the shift of many workers to the
                    Republican Party. By 1955, local unions had wasted any opportunities presented by the post-war
                    period with years of squabbling, purges of many dedicated union activists, the destruction of an
                    effective and influential left-led United Electrical Workers local, and sporadic raiding of one
                    another's membership. White argues convincingly that labor's political
                    "space" was substantially narrower than it had been in 1919. The divisive effects
                    of Americanism, anticommunism, race, consumerism, and employer opposition, combined with the
                    fragility of the labor-Democratic coalition, had eliminated alter- native labor visions from local
                    politics.
                Fragile Alliances has much to recommend it. While the attention to detailed
                    election results at times seems excessive, it yields a rare, close-up look at working class voting
                    patterns. White's discussions of AFL unions in the 1930s and the Klan's appeal to
                    workers focus attention on questions too frequently ignored. Welcome, too, is the attention to
                    employers, whose unusually successful opposition to the New Deal labor regime had a major effect on
                    the city's unions.
                Most significantly, White's history of labor and politics in 
                        Evansville
                     reminds us that the generalizations historians make about this topic simply may not
                    have held true in many places. If all politics is indeed local, we need to understand much more
                    about how workers and unions engaged in politics at this level if we are to adequately explain
                    labor's bleak political fortunes.
                GARY L. BAILEY is associate professor of history at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. He
                    teaches labor and public history, and his current interests include unions in the postwar period and
                    in higher education.
            
            
            
                Our Town A Heartland Lynching, a Haunted Town, and the Hidden History of White 
                            America
                         By Cynthia Carr (
                        New York
                    : Random House, 2006. Pp. x, 501. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                Our Town takes readers along on Cynthia Carr's tortuous return to 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , site of the infamous lynching of Abe Smith and Tom Shipp on August 7, 1930. As a
                    child, Carr often visited her grandparents in 
                        Marion
                    ; here, she returns to uncover possible family connections to this event, to find out
                    what "really" happened, and to understand how this horrific event continues to
                    haunt the city. Our Town emerges out of a growing interest in engaging these
                    murderous events in the nation's past through a kind of symbolic archaeology, digging out
                    such toxic stories so that communities can "come to terms" with them, settle
                    accounts, make amends, and exorcise a variety of demons. In addition to a burgeoning body of
                    scholarly and popular literature and a range of highly publicized museum exhibitions, many of the
                    communities scarred by these events struggle with diverse forms of memorial expression: cleaning
                    gravesites, requesting pardons for those unjustly convicted by kangaroo courts, creating interracial
                    rituals of reconciliation, and building physical memorials.
                Carr's story is part family history-her grandfather belonged to the Klu Klux Klan, and she
                    thinks she sees him in the infamous Lawrence Beitler photograph of the lynching-part investigative
                    reporting as she tries to reconstruct what actually happened, and part psychoanalysis of the
                    lynching's poisonous legacy. Carr writes of 
                        Marion
                     that "it became the town that never repudiated, investigated, or fully
                    acknowledged the events of August 7, 1930. So the lynching never took its place in history, never
                    receded into the past. It remained alive in the 
                        Marion
                     psyche" (p. 219). Carr's interviews-with the late James Cameron,
                    saved at the last minute from being lynched that August night and founder of the Black Holocaust
                    Museum in 
                        Milwaukee
                    , 
                         Wisconsin
                    ; with Oatess Archey, elected the first African American sheriff of Grant County in
                    1998; with witnesses, bystanders, and family members; and with contemporary members of the KKK-are
                    revealing and troubling.
                Despite some compelling stories, however, the book never becomes a coherent whole. Carr's
                    grandfather's Klan membership is certainly not enough to link him to the lynching. Nor does
                    Carr engage satisfactorily, in my view, with historian James H. Madison's observation that
                    "[i]t was not the Klan that lynched Abe Smith and Tom Shipp....The 
                        Indiana
                     Klan was guilty of much evil and much foolishness,
                    but it was innocent in the 
                        Marion
                     lynchings, or rather no more guilty than many others in this ordinary place in 
                        America's
                     heartland who continued to believe in 'us' and
                    'them'" (A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in 
                            America
                        , pp. 41-42).
                Carr understands her family story as a "model for the larger American family with its
                    repressed history of racial traumas: not just slavery but something as recent and as shared as Jim
                    Crow" (p. 27). Fair enough. But can a city, like an individual, be "trau-
                    matized"? Can a city have a "psyche"? Carr uses too easily the popular
                    term "collective memory." I much prefer James E. Young's sense of
                    "collected" memories of a society (or a city) as the "aggregate
                    collection of its members' many, often competing memories" (The
                        Texture of Memory: Holocaust Memorials and Meaning, p. xi). Carr's search reveals
                    plural and clashing memories of this searing event. The lynching registered differently for many
                    whites than it did for many blacks-a "justifiable punishment versus a day that would live
                    in infamy" (p. 103). This grim reality subverts the widespread and overly simplified idea
                    that the work of memory is by definition "healing." Remembrance can tear a
                    community apart as well as help it come together.
                EDWARD T. LINENTHAL is editor of the Journal of American History and professor
                    of history at Indiana University Bloomington. His books and articles include Preserving
                        Memory: The Struggle to Create 
                            America's
                         Holocaust Museum (2001) and The Unfinished Bombing: 
                            Oklahoma City
                         in American Memory (2001).
            
            
                Five Days in 
                            Philadelphia
                         The Amazing 'We Want Willkie' Campaign of 1940 and How it
                        Freed FDR to Save the Western World By Charles Peters (
                        New York
                    : Public Affairs Books, 2005. Pp. 256. Illustrations, index. $26.00.)
                Charles Peters, founder of the liberal magazine The Washington Monthly, thinks
                    something magical happened to American politics in 1940. The Republican party's nomination
                    of native Hoosier Wendell Willkie for president, he argues, allowed the American people "to
                    rise a notch or two above the usual limits of human nature" (p. 5). Without
                    Willkie's support for Franklin Roosevelt's destroyers-for-bases deal and his tacit
                    approval of the peacetime draft, Peters believes that the 
                        United States
                     would have been, at best, even less prepared than it was for the Second World War. At
                    worst, the victory of an isolationist Republican would have led to a nightmare, perhaps resembling the homegrown fascism described in Philip
                    Roth's The Plot Against 
                            America
                         (2004). Unfortunately, Peters's book is an unsatisfying synthesis of
                    potted history and reform tract, and it paints a misleading portrait of Willkie.
                The book seeks to portray the 1940 campaign as a turning point, primarily because no interventionists
                    succeeded in challenging Roosevelt and secondarily because Willkie refrained from excessively
                    exploiting isolationism. That "triumph over partisanship" (p. 4) inspires Peters,
                    who believes that by understanding how Willkie and Roosevelt found common ground on serious issues,
                    Americans today can become more generous politically. In keeping with that mission, Peters
                    romanticizes Willkie's campaign, writing at one point that the wealthy Willkie was
                    "Mr. Smith bound for 
                        Washington
                    " (p. 51). His account of Willkie's GOP nomination win (a victory
                    surprising not only because it was Willkie's first campaign but also because he had been a
                    life-long Democrat) is competent, but his treatment of the actual campaign- the crux of the
                    book-lacks drama. Peters stumbles on details, implying, for example, that Willkie spent only a few
                    thousand dollars on his campaign. (In reality, according to Steve Neal in his 1984 Willkie biography
                        Dark Horse, the campaign spent at least $16 million.) Peters also crams too
                    many extraneous details and digressions about his own boyhood into the book, causing it to lose
                    momentum.
                Willkie was less statesmanlike and more interesting than Peters portrays him. A womanizing,
                    hard-drinking industrialist and lawyer, Willkie was also a recognizably modern politician whose
                    success resulted not from skill at retail politics or the support of political bosses but from the
                    unlikely combination of native talent, an accident of history (the timing of 
                        Germany's
                     invasion of 
                        France
                    ), and media bias. (Neal points out that without the support of Henry Luce, there would
                    have been no Willkie candidacy. Peters barely acknowledges this fact.) A political amateur, Willkie
                    decided after winning the nomination that he had nothing to learn from the professionals.
                    Consequently, he proceeded to alienate and insult virtually the entire Republican party machinery,
                    even as he endeared himself to much of the electorate and the media, a tactic that predictably
                    scuttled his bid for the GOP's nomination in 1944. Willkie usually charted an independent
                    course, but he could nevertheless compromise his principles for political gain: late in the 1940
                    campaign, for instance, he charged that a vote for Roosevelt was a vote for war, a statement he
                    laughingly recanted a few months after the election. Willkie, then, was less a savior of American
                    democracy than a supremely gifted but completely untrained candidate-although he was more right than
                    wrong on the only issue that mattered.
                
                Peters' s choice to all but ignore the latter stages of Willkie's public life,
                    particularly his role in helping to banish isolationism from American political discourse, is
                    perplexing. Willkie contributed no original ideas to the debate over 
                        U.S.
                     foreign policy, but his massively bestselling One World (1943) was an
                    effective sales pitch for world government and greater post-war 
                        U.S.
                     involvement in international affairs. More understandable is Peters's
                    reluctance to confront the tension between his thesis and his ideals. Unarguably, it was right for
                    the 
                        United States
                     to have fought the Axis Powers, and so Peters applauds Willkie for giving cover to
                    FDR's preparations for war. But for some-one like Peters, who believes that the people
                    should determine government policy through democratic institutions, there can be no more troubling
                    outcome than denying citizens the option of staying out of a world-shattering conflict. If there was
                    a real chance that voters would have chosen an isolationist in 1940, then Peters must explain why he
                    celebrates the fact that voters were barred from making such a grievous error. A book tackling that
                    topic would be a probing exploration of the conflict between democracy and truth. Too bad it remains
                    unwritten.
                PAUL MUSGRAVE is assistant to the director of the Nixon Presidential Materials staff in 
                        Yorba Linda
                    , 
                        California
                    . He is working on a project about the failure of Paul McNutt's presidential
                    ambitions.
            
            
                Ernie Pyle's War A Documentary on Ernie Pyle, World War II
                        Correspondent DVD. Produced by Todd Gould. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005. 30 minutes. $19.95.)
                Just as Edward R. Murrow was the best-known radio journalist of World War II, so was Hoosier native
                    Ernie Pyle the best-known print journalist. But far more documentaries have been made about Murrow
                    than about Pyle. Certainly Murrow's bosses at CBS vigorously promoted their man, and his
                    career continued into the age of video, while Pyle was never comfortable posing for promotional
                    pictures. Only a few moving films of Pyle are known to exist, and only a single film exists in which
                    Pyle speaks (an excerpt of which opens this documentary). But it's also difficult to make a
                    video about Pyle because he was a writer and a storyteller. One of his Scripps-Howard bosses
                    referred to his Mark Twain-like quality. Without pictures, documentarists face a challenge in
                    bringing a writer to life. Gould's documentary is only the third to focus on Pyle. While an
                    Arts & Entertainment video pro- duced five years ago
                        (Ernie Pyle: The Voice of G.I. Joe) does a better job of conveying
                    Pyle's role in World War II, Gould's work gives us a broader understanding of
                    Pyle's life and the meaning of his work.
                Gould solves the video challenge in several ways. In addition to the better-known snapshots and
                    promotional pictures of Pyle, he uses relevant contemporary video. He has also employed a group of
                    about twenty reenactors with tents, jeeps, and a machine gun and filmed them operating in northern 
                        Monroe County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , in October 2005, to provide background footage for the reading of selected Pyle
                    columns. To these he has added a valuable cross-section of experts, from 
                        Indiana
                     historian James H. Madison to Pyle biographer James Tobin, Pyle friends Andy Rooney and
                    Walter Cronkite, 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Ohio
                     newspaper columnist Mike Harden, and others, including some World War II veterans.
                The central theme in the video has to be stated in words by experts, because it's impossible
                    to present it visually. Historians Madison and Tobin both emphasize Pyle's importance in
                    presenting ordinary Americans and their lives to other Americans, whether in the peacetime 1930s or
                    in World War II. As John Steinbeck wrote, "[T]he war of the homesick, weary, funny,
                    violent, common men who wash their socks in their helmets, complain about the food, whistle at the
                    Arab girls, or any girls for that matter, and bring themselves through as dirty a business as the
                    world has ever seen and do it with humor and dignity and courage ... is Ernie Pyle's
                    war" ("A Tribute to Ernie Pyle," Sears Peoples Book
                    Club, 1:6 [1944], p. 10).
                Viewers will respond to this documentary in different ways. Some will find evidence of Pyle as the
                    heroic, iconic voice of the World War II GI. Others will see a man of great complexity, who in spite
                    of the trials of his own self-doubt and his wife's manic depression, still managed to
                    produce often superb prose.
                This documentary will be especially valuable for a modern public that knows very little about Pyle.
                    With a good study guide, public schools can use the video as the center of a study of the Hoosier
                    hero. Public television stations will undoubtedly use the documentary at fundraising time. The
                    public in general will find this the most accessible summary of Pyle and his life.
                The reviewer feels obligated to point out one factual error. While the School of Journalism at
                    Indiana University proudly claims that Pyle studied journalism at IU, he could not have majored in
                    journalism, since that major was not approved until the early 1930s, a decade after Pyle left
                    school. Pyle's IU transcript shows that he was, in fact, majoring in economics.
                OWEN V. JOHNSON, who teaches history and journalism at Indiana University, is working on a book
                    of the private letters of Ernie Pyle.
            
            
            
                Come Hither to Go Yonder Playing Bluegrass with Bill Monroe By Bob
                    Black (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2005. Pp. 196. Illustrations, index. Clothbound, $40.00;
                    paperbound, $21.95.)
                In "Powerhouse," Eudora Welty paints a dazzling portrait of a master musician and
                    his band on stage, doing what they must do night after night: put on a great show. In this
                    cracker-jack memoir, Come Hither to Go Yonder, Bob Black takes us rambling in the
                    1970s with just such a master, Bill Monroe, the Father of Bluegrass.
                Few artists invent (or help to invent) a genre and then spend the rest of their lives performing and
                    promulgating it, internationally, at the top of their form-one thinks of jazzman Louis Armstrong, of
                    gospel's Thomas A. Dorsey, and, certainly, of mandolin maestro Bill Monroe, who said simply
                    that his music had "a high pitch" (p. 11).
                Banjoist Black became a Blue Grass Boy in September 1974 after a brief audition on his second day in 
                        Nashville
                    . Black had cut his hair and gone into Monroe's Sixteenth Avenue South office
                    to play bluegrass for the man who started it all, and, four tunes later, Monroe said:
                    "Okay. We're leaving tonight at 3 A.M. to play a festival in 
                        Black Mountain
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    . You got your clothes?" (p. 29).
                The young man who had learned on an inexpensive Kay banjo (to which he affixed "homemade
                    'Scruggs tuners' . . . fashioned from carriage bolts, screw eyes, and faucet
                    washers") was then thrust into what he calls "the unusual and creative lifestyle
                    of the traveling musician" (pp. 21, 30-31). Though the famous walk through these pages (Bob
                    Dylan shows up at the Palomino in 
                        Los Angeles
                    , telling Black after the show "I heard you out there"), Come Hither is no celebrity-spotting book. Come Hither is all about
                    folk-world road warriorism, not rock-star jetsetting.
                "I like to drive of a night," Monroe often said, and Black frequently found himself
                    behind the wheel in the wee hours. Once he jerked the over-laden station wagon to dodge what turned
                    out to be only "a blacktop patch," and he was quickly replaced-"When you
                    start seeing mules standing in the road," said consummate bluegrass fiddler and fellow Blue
                    Grass Boy Kenny Baker, "it's time to switch drivers" (p. 32).
                Fiddler Baker comes across as nearly as powerful a figure as Monroe himself. "He gave me
                    advice on how to get along in Bill's band, such as where to stash things on the bus, when
                    to wear casual offstage attire ('no dungarees!'), and how to be discreet about
                    consuming alcoholic beverages on the road ('don't let the Chief find
                    out!')" (p. 95). One nice passage treats Black's and Baker's
                    touring  together in 1985 when neither is any longer with
                    Monroe.
                In the end, though, this is a paean to Bill Monroe's music and his unshakeable, unmistakable
                    style. "His rhythm had a forward lean," writes Black. "Each note fell at
                    the front edge of the beat, giving the feeling that the music was gaining in speed from moment to
                    moment, even though the tempo never really changed" (p. 77). With Black we see, and almost
                    hear, Monroe spinning new tunes as the band rolls through the American night, naming them for places
                    where he thought of them: "Racin' through Payson," "Tombstone
                    Junction," "Strawberry Point," and the "Tall Corn State
                    Breakdown." "The money's out on the road," Monroe said.
                    "But it's work out there, you know, and I believe in working" (p. 65).
                Come Hither is filled with moments by turns heroic, humorous, and tender, and for
                    tenderness none touches this 
                        Rosine
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , scene just after Monroe's graveside service: "I noticed Ronnie
                    McCoury, the son of former Blue Grass Boy Del McCoury, standing a little way off, playing a Bill
                    Monroe tune called 'Old Dangerfield' on his mandolin. I got my banjo out and
                    walked over to join him" (pp. 151-52).
                Picking for the Chief-an authentic, real-world Powerhouse- was what Ira Gershwin meant by the lyric
                    "Nice work if you can get it." From 1974 to 1976 Bob Black got it- and he
                    certainly got it down right when he distilled his years as a Blue Grass Boy in Come
                        Hither to Go Yonder. We are on stage and on the bus with Bill, Kenny, Ralph, Randy, and Bob
                    the whole entertaining, energetic, and affecting way.
                Great show.
                BLAND SIMPSON has toured, playing piano, with the Tony Award-winning string band The Red Clay
                    Ramblers for twenty years. He is Bowman and Gordon Gray Associate Professor of English and Creative
                    Writing and director of the Creative Writing Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
                    Hill.
            
            
                The Indiana Rail Road Company
                        
                            America's
                         New Regional Railroad By Christopher Rund (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xvi, 254. Illustrations, maps, notes, index.
                    $45.00.)
                The stunning revival of freight railroads in North America after 1980 included structural changes in
                    the industry. One of these was that trunk railroads divested themselves of secondary lines that
                    served mostly local traffic. Where there remained enough local traffic to sustain a railroad, and
                         where local entrepreneurs could be persuaded to take a
                    gamble, these routes were "spun off" as independent short lines. If they were
                    large enough, they were called "regional railroads."
                This book is the story of one of those spin-offs, the Indiana Rail Road, formerly the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the former 
                        Illinois
                     Central. The line was the product of dubious nineteenth-century dreams. Portions of it
                    were conceived in the short-lived narrow-gauge craze that swept the country in the 1880s. The final
                    result was a route that wobbled from 
                        Effingham
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , northeastward through 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The wheezing little line was known for one of the engineering mini-marvels of the late
                    nineteenth century-the bridge over Richland Creek near the settlement of 
                        Tulip
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , famous locally as the Tulip Trestle. The line went bankrupt, and the Illinois Central
                    acquired it in 1911 at foreclosure.
                The line remained a route for local freight and passengers. (Passenger service ended in 1945.)
                    Although the IC did little to develop the line, it did have just enough important sources of traffic
                    to keep it alive, namely the oil fields around 
                        Robinson
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , the coal fields between 
                        Sullivan
                     and 
                        Switz City
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and the big electric generating plant of Indianapolis Power & Light. New
                    management at the Illinois Central in the mid-1970s decided to downsize, abandoning some routes and
                    selling off others, until the railroad consisted of little more than the 
                        Chicago
                    -
                        Memphis
                    -
                        New Orleans
                     main line. But one of these survivors was the Indianapolis branch.
                Thomas Hoback, son of a 
                        Santa Fe
                     dispatcher at 
                        Chillicothe
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , had developed a boyhood interest in railroad economics. After college, he went to work
                    for the Western Pacific in 
                        San Francisco
                     as an economic analyst. He had seen first-hand the frustrations that bore down on the
                    railroads in the 1970s when nearly a quarter of 
                        U.S.
                     mileage was in bankruptcy. But as Congress, the carriers, and the unions haltingly
                    found solutions during the decade, Hoback saw an opportunity to be a part of a revitalizing
                    industry. He found financial backers and acquired the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch. Many of the new short lines and regional roads went under, but this one had a
                    solid traffic base in coal. With good management and enough credit to make the necessary physical
                    improvements, its traffic base began to grow. Today, as the conduit for coal to Indianapolis Power
                    & Light, the rail line plays a largely unseen but vital role in providing cheap electricity
                    to the metropolis.
                This story has great local interest to west central 
                        Indiana
                    , but it is also an excellent case study, in microcosm, of an important transition in
                    American transportation. Unlike many railroad books, this one focuses on what the railroad actually
                    did for a living, and it becomes a story of the economy of west-central 
                        Indiana
                    , and of businesses both long-gone and modern.
                The book is not well organized. Topics appear out of chronological order, and photographs are
                    sometimes from a century other than the one being discussed in the parallel text. Nevertheless, this
                    is an important contribution to the history of late nineteenth- and early twenty-first-century
                    transportation and of the business model of the new regional railroad in 
                        America
                    .
                RICHARD SAUNDERS, JR. is professor of history at Clemson University, and author of Merging Lines, the Decline of American Railroads, 1900-1970 (2001) and Main
                        Lines; the Rebirth of North American Railroads, 1970-2002 (2003).
            
            
                Team of Rivals The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln By Doris Kearns
                    Goodwin (
                        New York
                    : Simon and Schuster, 2005. Pp. xix, 916. Maps, diagrams, illustrations, notes, index.
                    Clothbound $35.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
                In this engaging study of Abraham Lincoln and the principal men of his cabinet, Doris Kearns Goodwin
                    argues that Lincoln's "political genius"-particularly his
                    "extraordinary array of personal qualities" (p. xvii)-enabled him to harness the
                    talents of a disparate group of men, including his political rivals, to provide the country with
                    effective leadership during the Civil War. Whatever Lincoln's doubts and frustrations or
                    his increasing fatalistic sense that "events have controlled me" (Collected Works 7:282), Goodwin emphasizes Lincoln's political wisdom,
                    confidence, and sympathetic understanding of human behavior. He capably managed the conservative and
                    radical wings of his party; he befriended rivals and acted magnanimously toward those who opposed
                    him; and he was able to "gather the best men of the country around him" and
                    "impress upon them his own purpose, perception, and resolution at every juncture."
                This is not simply a biography of Lincoln. He shares the book with 1860 presidential election rivals
                    and cabinet members William H. Seward, Salmon P. Chase, and Edward Bates and, to a lesser extent,
                    with their political colleagues and families: Gideon Welles, Montgomery Blair, Edwin M. Stanton,
                    Mary Todd Lincoln, Frances Seward, Kate Chase Sprague, and Francis and Frank Blair. Collective
                    biography allows Goodwin to present a "clearer and more dimensional picture" of
                    Lincoln's life (p. xv). Although Lincoln's upbringing was  more humble and rough-hewn than his political rivals', all
                    represented a generation of "ambitious young men in the North" who pursued success
                    in nineteenth-century 
                        America
                     (p. xv). Following their life courses sep- arately in the first part of the book, we
                    see each man's different circumstances and temperament, the decisions each made, and the
                    consequences of those decisions. Lincoln's character and experiences served him well.
                    Lincoln learned in 
                        Illinois
                     to be a "shrewd grassroots politician" (p. 89); his
                    "sympathy," according to private secretary John G. Nicolay, enabled him
                    "to forecast with uncanny accuracy what his opponents were likely to do" (p. 104);
                    he gained devoted friends, even in defeat, as in his noble behavior toward Lyman Trumbull and Norman
                    Judd at the time of his unsuccessful 1855 bid for the U.S. Senate (pp. 130, 172); and he was a
                    "master of timing" in the 1860 presidential campaign and throughout his presidency
                    (p. 212).
                The second part of the book is a more straightforward narrative of the Lincoln administration. Much
                    of the story is familiar: Seward's transformation from dismissive rival to admiring friend,
                    Gen. George B. McClellan's frustrating reluctance to engage in battle, political reactions
                    to the administration's decisions, the war's strain on the nation,
                    Chase's political machinations, and Lincoln's firm commitment to Union victory.
                    Goodwin tells the story well. She explains that, "by widening the lens to include
                    Lincoln's colleagues and their families," the study could "benefit from a
                    treasure trove of primary sources that have not generally been used in Lincoln biographies"
                    (p. xviii). Her skillful use of the correspondence and journals of the people surrounding
                    Lincoln-and her presentation of their thoughts, actions, and relationships with each other
                    generally-add considerable depth to her interpretation of Lincoln and his colleagues. We see their
                    human qualities: Stanton's early personal tragedies, Chase's desire for the
                    presidency and Lincoln's forbearance regarding it, or Seward's tearful reaction
                    when, on seeing the War Department's flag at half-mast as he recovered from his wounds, he
                    deduced that Lincoln was dead. Such stories turn insightful analysis into a compelling and even
                    moving tale.
                MATTHEW N. VOSMEIER, associate professor of history at Hanover College, Hanover, 
                        Indiana
                    , teaches early American history, including a course on Abraham Lincoln.
            
            
            
                Basil Wilson Duke, C.S.A. The Right Man in the Right Place By Gary
                    Robert Matthews (
                        Lexington
                    : University of Kentucky Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 376. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibli-
                    ography, index. $39.95.)
                The first modern treatment of Basil Wilson Duke, famous as the author of A History of
                        Morgan's Cavalry (1867), this work presents answers to many long-held questions.
                    In focusing on Duke, John Hunt Morgan's brother-in-law, close friend, and second-in-command
                    of his cavalry, Gary R. Matthews provides a reevaluation of Duke's war role, his
                    contributions to Morgan's career, and his post-war memory.
                Matthews contends that it is "impossible to separate Duke's Civil War career from
                    that of John Hunt Morgan without distorting the significance of his military
                    accomplishments" (p. xv). Any history of Morgan's cavalry division, then, is also
                    a story of Duke's military exploits. As a result, more than half of the work details the
                    personal and official activities of Duke during the war; the remaining chapters consider both his
                    pre-and post-war experiences.
                The book could be considered a unit history of the 2nd Kentucky Cavalry C.S.A. and Morgan's
                    subsequently larger commands. The author convincingly "demonstrates that Morgan was in
                    charge but that Duke perfectly complemented him by developing his irregular hit-and-run raiding
                    style and tactic of fighting dismounted." Matthews discovered that it was Duke who
                    "wrote a pamphlet entitled Tactics for Mounted Riflemen" and
                    Duke who "handled discipline ... [while allowing] Morgan to become a folk hero of the
                    Southern people and the primary model for the Confederate Partisan Ranger Act" (p. xi).
                Of special interest to IMH readers will be the somewhat expanded treatment of the 
                        Indiana
                    -
                        Ohio
                     Raid of July 1863. Units from both 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Indiana
                     were involved in the defense, which led to Duke's capture and thirteen-month
                    term as a POW Upon his exchange, Matthews writes, Duke found the Confederacy changed, with past
                    glory and Southern chivalry seemingly vanished.
                After his unit escorted Jefferson Davis from 
                        Virginia
                     through the Carolinas into 
                        Georgia
                     in the spring of 1865, Duke returned to 
                        Kentucky
                    . In the book's last chapters, Matthews details Duke's post-war career
                    as a writer, editor, lawyer, lobbyist, "New Departure Democrat" and, finally,
                    Republican, before his death at the age of 80 on September 16, 1916. The author, in examining
                    Duke's life both during and after the war, concludes that Duke's sense of loyalty
                    to family, friends, and 
                        Kentucky
                     is of primary importance in understanding the man. Favoring reconciliation with the
                    North, Duke continued to be "repre-  sentative [of the
                    Old South] intellectually [as well as being] a product of the war [being] both burdened and inspired
                    by its legacy" (p. 305).
                ROBERT G. MANGRUM, Department of History, Howard Payne University, Brownwood, 
                        Texas
                    , is currently compiling an institutional history as University Historian.
            
            
                Sundown Towns A Hidden Dimension of American Racism By James
                    Loewen (
                        New York
                    : The New Press, 2005. Pp. x, 562. Illustrations, maps, notes, index. $29.95.)
                Racism and its persistence in American culture have been recurring themes in American literature,
                    film, and television. In recent years, journalists and historians have written extensively of racial
                    conflict and tension in every period of American history. Recent works such as David
                    Blight's masterful Race and Reunion (2001) and Scott Malcomson's
                        One Drop of Blood (2000), to name two, have contributed to a reexamination of
                    the origins and development of racism as a major element in our national story.
                Sundown Towns is an important contribution to this examination of the problem of
                    racism as well as to the explanation of its persistence in present-day 
                        America
                    . Author James Loewen, author of award-winning Lies My Teacher Told Me
                    (1996), a critical examination of American history texts, and the more recent Lies
                        Across 
                            America
                         (1999), a look at history as distorted by public monuments and historic
                    markers, has produced a monumental study of the "hidden history" of racism.
                A sundown town, as defined by Loewen, is "any organized jurisdiction that . . kept African
                    Americans or other groups from living in it and was thus 'all-white' on
                    purpose" (p. 4). In great detail, the author marshals census data, primary sources, and a
                    myriad of state and local contacts in order to document the existence of these deliberately
                    "whites only" communities. In discussing the significance of these places, Loewen
                    maintains that outside of the traditional slave holding South, "probably a majority of all
                    incorporated places" (p. 4) excluded African Americans. Loewen further states that local
                    historians wary of potential adverse publicity deliberately hid mention of these policies.
                    Professional historians and sociologists, the author asserts, simply did not know about the practice
                    until recently. He contrasts that omission with the extensively researched history of lynching.
                
                Loewen posits a "nadir" period between 1890 and 1940, when racial exclusion became
                    standard policy throughout the 
                        United States
                    . The techniques for carrying out the policy ranged from threats to outright violence.
                    More subtle, but perhaps more effective, were restrictive covenants, racial steering, and redlining
                    by realtors and financial institutions. This practice extended to New Deal planned communities such
                    as the Greenbelt towns and were policy under the FHA. By the 1950s most communities, including the
                    new Levittowns, had successfully excluded blacks from their jurisdictions.
                Loewen's most telling argument is that the effects of racial exclusion are still with us.
                    The sundown towns, he maintains, are now sundown suburbs. The resultant racial segregation
                    "exacerbates all other forms of racial discrimination," (p. 17) such as lack of
                    employment and educational opportunities, as well as the social networking necessary for
                    advancement. Thus racial inequality is still a function of where "one can live."
                    Loewen has challenged historians and the public to examine the record of community life and to
                    reflect upon the historical sources of contemporary racism.
                WILLIAM MUNN is chairperson of the Social Studies department at Marion High School in 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and adjunct professor of American history in the Indiana University Advanced College
                    program.
            
            
                Indispensable Outcasts Hobo Workers and Community in the American Midwest,
                        1880-1930 By Frank Tobias Higbie (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2003. Pp. xi, 255. Illustrations, notes, maps, tables,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $44.95; paperbound, $18.95.)
                The Bonus Army An American Epic By Paul Dickson and Thomas B.
                    Allen (
                        New York
                    : Walker and Company, 2004. Pp. 370. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $27.00.)
                There is a growing interest in the homeless as a factor in American history and civilization. Works
                    by Alan Bloom (on the urban homeless before 1880), Elaine Abelson (on homeless women during the
                    Great Depression), and Ella Howard (a history of the Bowery in the twentieth century) are in
                    progress, while an October 2005 conference at Princeton University compared social and political
                    responses to homelessness in the 
                        U.S.
                    
                    to that of other countries. Indispensable
                    Outcasts and The Bonus Army reflect this ongoing broadening of approaches to
                    a previously neglected subject.
                In contrast to works by myself (Down and Out, On the Road: The Homeless in American
                        History [20021) and Todd DePastino (Citizen Hobo: How a Century of
                        Homelessness Shaped 
                            America
                         [2003]), Frank T. Higbie's study of hobo workers focuses on a
                    specific locale and time frame. His concern is to understand the nature, causes, and consequences of
                    the migration of seasonal laborers who, prior to 1930, played an important role in harvesting wheat,
                    vegetables, and other crops, and in the mining and timber industries. As the author explains, the
                    increasing mechanization of this type of work led to a steady decline in the need for migratory
                    labor, beginning in the 1920s. The author avoids the romanticization of homeless men on the road
                    that too often diverted the attention of middle-class readers in the early twentieth century. These
                    men, who often traveled illegally on freight trains to get to and from their seasonal jobs, were
                    viewed with suspicion, especially in rural areas. Progressive era social investigators, even when
                    they had some understanding of the economic causes of homelessness, often reinforced traditional
                    stereotypes of hobos as lazy, irresponsible, alcoholic, and potentially dangerous. At the same time,
                    however, this element of the working class was much needed, especially at harvest time in the
                    midwestern wheat belt. "Indispensable outcasts" is indeed a good way to describe
                    them.
                Higbie's analysis goes beyond that of other historical studies of the homeless in its
                    thoroughly examination of the economic role played by such workers in an industrializing society, as
                    he traces their relationship to the farming and logging communities that needed them and, most
                    importantly, demonstrates their class consciousness as it developed through their work experiences
                    and their relationships with other laborers. Higbie's assessment of hobos' lives
                    "on the road" reinforces to a considerable degree what both I and DePastino have
                    previously discussed, but he gives little attention to the lifestyle and interaction of workers in
                    the skid rows, areas of major cities where hobos, tramps, and the down- and-out in general
                    congregated in the late fall and winter. This omission is unfortunate, because the interaction of
                    hobos in the "main stems" (as they called skid rows) offers much evidence of the
                    temporary communalism that Higbie considers an important part of the hobo life during the warmer
                    months of the year. Nonetheless, Indispensable Outcasts makes an important
                    contribution to social and labor history by identifying and discussing hobos as a legitimate part of
                    the working class. In broadening our understanding of what it meant to be a worker during the high
                    period of industrialization  in the 
                        United States
                    , this work helps us better to understand the social basis of the appeal of radical
                    groups such as the I.W.W. at that time.
                Though focusing on a single historical incident, Paul Dickson and Thomas B. Allen's study of
                    the Bonus Army has something in common with Higbie's volume. Both deal significantly with
                    the relationship between the homeless and the non-homeless. The Bonus Army, a group of 45,000
                    unemployed World War I veterans, marched (or rode in boxcars) to 
                        Washington ,
                        D.C.
                    , in the late spring of 1932 to pressure Congress into paying a bonus promised to them
                    for wartime service. Once in the nation's capitol, the veterans constructed a huge
                    shantytown on the banks of the Potomac and began regular protest marches in an attempt to influence Congress to fund
                    the bonus. As the number of veterans, and their families, grew, and as the shantytown expanded to
                    the size of a small city, Hoover administration officials grew increasingly uneasy about their
                    continuing presence in the nation's capital. Finally, on July 28, going beyond the specific
                    orders of the President to remove the Bonus Expeditionary Force (as the group called itself) from
                    its "Hooverville," troops under the command of General Douglas MacArthur drove the
                    veterans and their families from the city at bayonet point-sometimes using tear gas- then set fire
                    to their makeshift abodes.
                These events, and the political fallout they caused for Hoover (whose actions contributed to his
                    disastrous defeat in November), have been described before, but never so colorfully or in such
                    detail as they are by Dickson and Allen. Their book is particularly valuable, however, because it
                    goes beyond these well-known aspects of the story to explore the larger social meaning of the Bonus
                    Army and the long-term political ramifications of the brutal suppression of their protest, which
                    later helped spur legislators to enact the G.I. Bill in 1944. Compared to others who have written on
                    the Bonus Army, the authors devote much more time to the organization of the BEF and their march on
                    Washington, demonstrating that this group of homeless, unemployed men was far from the disorganized
                    mob of radicals and ne'er-do-wells that MacArthur and other conservatives described.
                One of the most interesting sections of The Bonus Army focuses on race relations
                    among the veterans. Dickson and Allen demonstrate that both blacks and whites participated in all
                    aspects of the Bonus Army on a basis of rough equality and without much tension. While such
                    interaction among hobos and tramps on the road was common, however, it was not true of urban skid
                    rows, where African Americans were usually excluded. Despite being located in 
                        Washington,
                        D.C.
                    a rigidly segregated city at the time, the huge "encampment" of
                    veterans was never segregated along racial lines. One wishes the authors had spent more  time on the relationship between the BEF and the local communities that
                    aided them as they traveled. The sympathetic treatment the men received in most cases reflected a
                    generally favorable attitude toward the homeless during the Depression that went well beyond the
                    specific issue of the bonus. Nevertheless, the volume by Dickson and Allen, exceptionally well
                    researched for a popular study, is by far the most wide-ranging history of the Bonus Army to date.
                The interaction of the domiciled majority in the U.S. with the homeless unemployed has always been
                    complex and ambiguous-sometimes hostile and sometimes sympathetic, depending on the class
                    circumstances, ethnicity, race, and gender of various elements of the homeless as well as of the
                    people who dealt with them. Books like Indispensable Outcasts and The
                        Bonus Army expand our understanding of that complexity, in the process helping us to move
                    beyond stereotypes about the down and out that still exist today.
                KENNETH L. KUSMER, Professor of History at Temple University, is the author of Down
                        and Out, On the Road: The Homeless in American History (2001) and co-editor of the forth-
                    coming African American Urban History since World War II: Dynamics of Race, Class, and
                        Gender.
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
    
