
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 71, Issue 4, pages 299-405. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:71+issue:4+year:1975&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        
                            United States
                        
                     v. 31 Photographs: Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey and Obscenity Law
            Kenneth R. Stevens*
            
            From the time he turned from research on the gall wasp to the study of human sexual behavior, Indiana
                    University's Professor Alfred C. Kinsey attracted controversy. His research created an
                    uproar not only with the general public but also with the federal government, and Kinsey's
                    work inadvertently took on legal as well as social importance when his efforts to import foreign
                    erotica for study in his Institute for Sex Research clashed with federal obscenity law and led to
                    lengthy legal battle. The government maintained that the tariff act of 1930 prohibited anyone from
                    importing obscene materials, while Kinsey argued that the principle of academic freedom guaranteed
                    the scholar access to erotic materials necessary for scientific research.1 The
                    Kinsey customs decision of 1957 established a milestone in obscenity law with its concept of
                    "variable obscenity," the idea that obscenity is not absolute but is determined by
                    the nature of the audience.2
            
            
               
                  * Kenneth R. Stevens is a graduate student in history at
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . The author expresses his appreciation to Professor Maurice Baxter, Indiana
                        University History Department, for his advice in the preparation of this manuscript.
               
                  1
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, Vol. XLVI, Part 1, Title III, pp. 688–89,
                        sec. 305. Section 305 of the tariff act of 1930 prohibits the importation of "any
                        obscene book, pamphlet, paper, writing, advertisement, circular, print, picture, drawing, or
                        other representation, figure, or image on or of paper or other material, or any cast,
                        instrument, or other article which is obscene or immoral. …" The same
                        section allows the secretary of the treasury, who has overall responsibility for the Customs
                        Bureau, to admit at his discretion works of "established literary or scientific
                        merit" for noncommercial purposes.
               
                  2
                        U.S. v. 31 Photographs, 4–3/4" x 7" in size, and various pictures, books and other
                            articles, 156 F. Supp. 350 (1957).
            
            
            Years before the legal battle began in 1950, Kinsey tried to forestall any difficulties with the
                    tariff law that his study of imported erotica might produce. In 1947 Kinsey wrote to Huntington
                    Cairns, the Customs Bureau's legal advisor in 
                        Washington
                    , requesting an exception under section 305 of the tariff law of 1930 which would allow
                    the institute to import erotic materials that might provide insight into "the significance
                    of sex in all aspects of human activity."3 Kinsey's concern
                    that materials he might seek to import for his studies would run afoul of the bureau was probably
                    justified, for the customs collector at 
                        Indianapolis
                     has Alden H. Baker, a seventy-seven year old Democratic political figure.4 In July, 1947, Baker seized a shipment to Kinsey for violation of the tariff act because
                    it contained a graphically illustrated book on Japanese sexual practices.5 When
                    news of the seizure reached the Indiana University administration, law professor Leon H. Wallace,
                    whose father was a long time friend of Baker, was asked to intervene. In a visit to the collector,
                    Wallace explained the scientific value of Kinsey's research and the care the institute took
                    to prevent unauthorized public access. Impressed with his argument, Baker agreed to release
                    Kinsey's materials. From this visit arose a modus vivendi which served
                    the purpose of the Institute for Sex Research for the next three years.6
            
            Although the institute experienced no major customs difficulties during this period, the
                    Wallace-Baker understanding rested on a precarious foundation because it lacked the official
                    blessing of the Customs Bureau. This became clear in January, 1950, when a career customs official,
                    Eugene J. Okon, was appointed Baker's assistant collector. Okon disliked the informal
                    agreement, not because it was with Kinsey but because he felt "it wasn't the place
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Alfred C. Kinsey to Huntington Cairns, June 13, 1947, Institute for
                            Sex Research Papers. Correspondence and other materials related to the case are located in
                            the files of the Institute for Sex Research, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . In addition some material is contained in a separate Confidential
                            Correspondence File. The library and files of the Institute for Sex Research are open only
                            to qualified scholars.
                  
                     4 For a sketch of Baker's career see the profile prepared by
                            the Citizen's Historical Association, February 26, 1949 (Indiana Historical Society
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     5 Alfred C. Kinsey to Alden H. Baker, July 19, 1947, Institute Papers.
                  
                     6 Author's interview with Leon H. Wallace, October 26,
                        1973.
               
                     office to grant an exception to federal law."7 In early May Okon requested guidance from the 
                        Washington
                     bureau regarding the applicability of section 305 of the tariff act to consignments
                    addressed to Kinsey. The modus vivendi collapsed as soon as Assistant Commissioner
                    of Customs David B. Strubinger saw enclosed samples of the material Kinsey regularly received. In
                    his reply Strubinger declared: "All the books you have submitted are grossly obscene. The
                    most liberal interpretation could not bring them within the statutory limitations of the
                    discretionary authority of section 305."8
            
            Clearly, for Kinsey to receive further imports of erotica, an agreement with 
                        Washington
                     was essential. When he learned of Strubinger's decision, Kinsey called his
                    long time friend, attorney Morris L. Ernst of 
                        New York
                    , who was well known as the author of several books on censorship and as the advocate
                    for Random House publishers in the Ulysses customs case of 1934.9 Ernst's junior partner, Mrs. Harriet F. Pilpel, and Kinsey met with Cairns on June
                    19, 1950, in an attempt to reach an agreement with the Customs Bureau. Pilpel argued that the
                    provisions of the tariff act which prohibited importation of obscene materials carried an
                    "implied exception" in cases of qualified persons who made legitimate use of
                    material which would otherwise be banned. "Obviously," she said, "many
                    works of great merit would be impossible if their authors were not permitted access to raw material
                    which in and of itself is of no intrinsic merit whatsoever."10 She
                    argued that a precedent for the implied exception could be found in U.S. v. One Package (1936), a decision which upheld the right of a physician to import
                        
                  
                     7 Author's interview with Eugene J. Okon, November 2, 1973.
                  
                     8 David B. Strubinger to Alden H. Baker, May 29, 1950, Institute
                            Papers.
                  
                     9 The friendship between Kinsey and Ernst began when Kinsey wrote
                            Ernst on August 24, 1943, to express his admiration for Ernst's legal abilities
                            (this letter is contained in the Institute files). Ernst's books include To the Pure: A Study of Obscenity and the Censor, written with William
                            Seagle (
                                New York
                            , 1928); The Censor Marches On: Recent Milestones in the
                                Administration of Obscenity Law in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , with Alexander Lindey (
                                New York
                            , 1940); and The First Freedom (
                                New York
                            , 1946). In the Ulysses decision (5 F. Supp. 182, 1933; 72 F.
                            2d 705, 1934), another case involving section 305 of the tariff act of 1930, the court had
                            ruled that the James Joyce classic was definitely not an obscene book.
                  
                     10 Harriet Pilpel to Huntington Cairns, June 20, 1950, Institute
                            Papers.
               
                     pessaries despite the prohibition against contraceptives in the
                    tariff law. In examining the law the court had reached the conclusion that it was not the intent of
                    Congress to ban such items when they were required for trial purposes by "conscientious and
                    competent physicians." The same reasoning might be extended to Kinsey's use of
                        pornography.11
            
            Any arrangement, however, required the approval of Walter R. Johnson, the assistant commissioner for
                    the Customs Bureau, who insisted on strict interpretation of the tariff act. On June 27 Johnson told
                    Kinsey that he would "be advised as soon as possible whether we find any possibility of
                    construing ‘established scientific merit’ as equivalent to
                    ‘established scientific significance,’ but we have found nothing so far that
                    would support such a conclusion."12 By September Johnson had decided
                    against granting Kinsey an administrative exception to the law, and he informed Pilpel that any
                    implied exceptions to the tariff act had to be declared by the courts.13
            
            Blocked in the attempt to reach an administrative understanding, Kinsey reluctantly agreed to a court
                    test. Although he regretted the time and expense of a court fight, he wrote Pilpel that he was
                    "increasingly convinced that we should push this until we have clearly established our
                    right to import any kind of sexual material."14 His lawyers based the
                    main thrust of their arguments on interpretation of the tariff law rather than on the abstract
                    principle. Their proposed test case called for patently obscene materials to be sent to the
                    institute through the 
                        New York
                     customs office, where the deputy collector of customs agreed to seize the packages and
                    the district attorney promised prompt federal proceedings.15
            
            Just as the issue seemed about to be resolved by court decision, dramatic new developments occurred
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Following Strubinger's reply to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     bureau the actions of the customs office had become increasingly troublesome for
                    Kinsey. By August, 1950, the customs office had seized material worth six hundred dollars, with
                    additional 
                  
                     11
                            U.S. v. One Package, 86 F. 2d 737 (1936).
                  
                     12 Walter R. Johnson to Alfred C. Kinsey, June 27, 1950, Institute
                            Papers.
                  
                     13 Harriet Pilpel, "Memorandum re Conference with Messrs.
                            Johnson and Cairns on Friday afternoon, September 15, 1950, at Mr. Cairns' office
                            in 
                                Washington
                            ," ibid.
                  
                  
                     14 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, September 22, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     15 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, October 3, 1950; Harriet Pilpel
                            to Alfred C. Kinsey, October 5, 1950, ibid.
                  
               
                     shipments valued at over $2,800 still in transit.
                    Kinsey complained that "it looks as though they are going to examine every package that is
                    addressed to us. … If all of this material is impounded and held up for a couple of
                    years, it will mean considerable … interference with the research we are
                        doing."16
            
            Even Kinsey's gloomy prediction of continued customs problems hardly prepared him for what
                    happened next. The front page of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star for November 17, 1950, carried a story entitled "
                    ‘Science’ Says Kinsey; ‘Dirty Stuff Says U.S.," in which
                    Collector Baker described the shipment of Japanese art work and seventeenth and eighteenth century
                    French miniatures which he had shown to the press as "d—dirty stuff …
                    nothing scientific about it." The story, also covered in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times, was picked up by the Associated Press and United Press International.17
            
            The news created an uproar. With record breaking appropriations for the state universities pending
                    before the legislature, Governor Henry F. Schricker feared a political backlash. He placed an irate
                    telephone call to Indiana University President Herman B Wells, who recalls: "He was so
                    angry that he was beyond reason. Finally I said, ‘Governor, you're so mad that I
                    can't reason with you. When you calm down, we'll discuss it,’ and I
                    hung up the phone on the Governor of Indiana."18 Schricker was not
                    alone in his displeasure. Customs Bureau Counsel Cairns and Assistant Commissioner Johnson were
                    inundated with requests for information. Cairns, apparently thinking Kinsey had released the story
                    for publicity purposes, telephoned Pilpel twice about the matter.19
            
            
               
                  16 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, August 24, 1950, ibid.
               
               
                  17 Clippings from the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 17, 1950; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 17, 1950; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, November 17, 1950; Institute Papers. The Star had the
                        fullest coverage of the seizure. While the News and the Times devoted 55 lines of two inch column to the story, the Star covered
                        it with 132 lines and photographs of Kinsey and Baker. For examples of wire service coverage,
                        see the 
                            St. Louis
                        
                        Post-Dispatch, November 17, 1950, the 
                            Louisville
                        
                        Courier-Journal, November 18, 1950, and the 
                            Denver
                        
                        Post, November 18, 1950. The event also received space in the 
                            Paris
                         edition of the 
                            New York
                        
                        Herald-Tribune, November 19, 1950.
               
                  18 Author's interview with Herman B Wells, November 20, 1973. The
                        informality of this remark is related to the fact that Governor Schricker and Chancellor Wells
                        had known each other since boyhood.
               
                  19 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, November 17, 1950, Institute
                        Papers.
            
            
            Kinsey also was angry and perplexed by the newspaper incident. Beseiged by reporters, he was
                    described by the Star as "touchy and irritable on the whole
                        subject."20 Toward the end of a long and harried day, he released a
                    statement on the seizure which summed up his attitude toward the case and the principle of academic
                    freedom: 
                        In response to a recent inquiry, the Institute for Sex Research, at Indiana University,
                            explains that it has inevitably had to gather data and materials which, under other
                            circumstances and in other places, would be considered obscene. …
                        The Institute feels that the issue is much broader than that of the importation of a specific
                            object at a given time and place. It considers that the issue is one which concerns all
                            scholars who need access to so-called obscene materials for scientific investigations which
                            in the long run may contribute to human welfare.21
                  
                     Baker's display to the press of material he judged in violation of the tariff act
                    puzzled as well as irritated Kinsey, who had always considered his relationship with the collector
                    to be cordial.22 Baker had probably intended no insult to Kinsey. He was a
                    straitlaced individual who had in all likelihood never felt entirely comfortable passing
                    Kinsey's pornographic material through the customs office.23 Once Okon
                    questioned the legality of the modus vivendi, Baker was easily convinced to
                    abandon it. The newspaper episode, however, was pure coincidence. Reporters for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers daily roamed the Federal Building, where the customs office was located, in
                    search of news stories. Alden Baker's office was an informal gathering place for reporters,
                    where they often came to enjoy coffee and conversation with Baker. A reporter entered the customs
                    office only minutes after a package to Kinsey had been opened for inspection. "The stuff
                    was strung out on Baker's desk," Okon recalls, "and when the reporter
                    walked in, Alden said something to the effect, ‘Hey, look at this.’
                        "24 The news story of November 17 was the result.
            The furor of the first story had barely subsided when the customs office struck again. Baker seized a
                    shipment on 
                  
                     20 Clipping from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 17, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     21 Alfred C. Kinsey, "Press Release, November 17,
                            1950," ibid.
                  
                  
                     22 Harriet Pilpel to Huntington Cairns, November 21, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Author's interview with Leon H. Wallace, October 26, 1973;
                            author's interview with Eugene J. Okon, November 2, 1973.
                  
                     24 Author's interview with Eugene J. Okon, November 2,
                        1973.
               
                     November 24 which he described as even worse than the others.
                    Okon termed the shipment "so obscene that any scientific value is lost."25 The wire services again took note, giving the case national prominence and
                    causing Kinsey to complain angrily about the 
                        Indianapolis
                     customs office. After Pilpel protested vigorously to Cairns about the 
                        Indianapolis
                     bureau releasing information to the press, however, Commissioner Johnson ordered the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office to stop the publicity.26
            
            Although no public notices of further Kinsey seizures were released, his problems had begun to draw
                    editorial comment in newspapers around the country. The 
                        Boston
                    
                    Herald published a satirical slap at the Customs Bureau for its efforts to
                    "protect Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey against too much sex."27 The
                    Anniston, 
                        Alabama
                    , Star, however, voiced the opinion that "pictures of moral
                    degenerates in degenerate poses hardly can reveal much of real scientific worth."28
            
            The undesired publicity had a serious effect on the test case Kinsey and his attorneys were
                    preparing. What had promised to be a straightforward resolution in the courts was complicated by
                    notoriety. A British gynecologist who shared Kinsey's interest in the sexual implications
                    of obscene graffiti had agreed for the purposes of the test case to send Kinsey samples of graffiti
                    commonly found in public toilets to help establish the value of patently obscene materials for
                    scientific research. News of the November seizures lessened the gynecologist's willingness
                    to take part in the case. Fearful of professional ruin if his part in the plan became known, the
                    doctor revealed the graffiti proposal to the editor of the Journal of Sex
                    Education, Norman Haire, and requested that he mail a sample of the material to Kinsey. Haire
                    was willing but nervous. In a letter to Kinsey Haire explained that for his own protection he should
                    seek prior approval from the British postmaster general.29 Enthusiastic about
                    the graffiti plan, Ernst and Pilpel opposed any approach to the British postmaster general, fearing
                    that an adverse ruling by British authorities might prejudice the case in the 
                        United States
                    .30
                    
                  
                     25 Clipping from the 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Herald-Telephone, November 25, 1950, Institute Papers.
                  
                     26 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, November 30, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     27 Clipping from the 
                                Boston
                            
                            Herald, November 28, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     28 Clipping from the Anniston Star, November 29,
                            1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 Norman Haire to Alfred C. Kinsey, December 7, 1950, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, December 12, 1950; Harriet
                            Pilpel to Norman Haire, December 20, 1950, ibid.
                  
               
                     Haire therefore backed out entirely. In a long letter to Kinsey
                    he explained: 
                  
                     
                        No prudent practising doctor in this country would take the risk of sending you the
                                    material through our mails without obtaining the P.M.G.'s permission first,
                                    for the following reasons:
                        In this country doctors are licensed to practice by the General Medical Council. If a
                                    doctor is found guilty of any offense, the police authorities
                                    automatically inform the G.M.C. and the latter then calls on the medical
                                    practitioner to show reason why his name should not be removed from the medical
                                    register.
                        I am afraid, therefore, that my previous suggestion turns out to be impracticable,
                                    and that it will be necessary for you to find somebody to send the material who is
                                    not a practising doctor.31
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Kinsey was deeply embarrassed by the doctor's discomfiture. In a letter to Haire Kinsey
                    apologized for his part in the endeavor which had caused so much trouble.32 He
                    never again attempted to bring his British friends into the case, and when, later in the year, the
                    attorneys tried to revive the graffiti proposal, Kinsey firmly resisted.33
            
            With Haire out of the test case, Kinsey turned to materials from foreign book dealers. From Meyer
                    Loshak and Son of Essex, 
                        England
                    , he ordered several books, among them deSade's Les 120 Journees
                        de Sodome. Kinsey advised Pilpel that the books were as openly erotic "as we can
                        get."34 He also placed a large order, which included erotic
                    drawings by the Belgian artist Felicien Rops, with Philobiblon, a Copenhagen book store.35
            
            The orders from Loshak and Philobiblon began to arrive in February, but ironically the 
                        New York
                     customs office did not seize them. Pilpel and Ernst examined the shipments with the
                    idea of returning them to the customs office for seizure but concluded that most of the material was
                    not suitable for a test case. They needed, Pilpel stressed to Kinsey, indisputably pornographic
                    items. In a letter to Philobiblon on March 22, 1951, Kinsey explained the need for specifically
                    erotic 
                  
                     31 Norman Haire to Alfred C. Kinsey, December 27, 1950, Confidential
                            Correspondence File, ibid.
                  
                  
                     32 Alfred C. Kinsey to Norman Haire, January 24, 1951, Confidential
                            Correspondence File, ibid.
                  
                  
                     33 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, November 23, 1951, Confidential
                            Correspondence File, ibid.
                  
                  
                     34 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, January 16, 1951, Institute
                            Papers.
                  
                     35 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, January 22, 1951, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  TWO ITEMS SEIZED
                            BY CUSTOMS OFFICIALS
                  
                  Courtesy Institute for Sex Research
               
                     materials to be used in a test case and requested "the
                    most openly erotic material" available, particularly "French postcards,
                    photographs and drawings of sexual activity, including mouth-genital contact and if possible,
                    homosexual activity."36 In response the book dealer prepared a varied
                    collection which he began to send in small packages on April 4. Included in the shipments were
                    thirty-one photographs which he described as "the most openly erotic … anyone
                    could imagine—and rather pretty."37 When the photographs
                    from Philobiblon passed unchallenged through the 
                        New York
                     customs office, Pilpel returned them to the deputy collector for reexamination.
            In all the 
                        New York
                     customs office seized seven of the importations addressed to Kinsey. Pilpel decided
                    that four—the thirty-one photographs, deSade's 120 Journees,
                    Pierre Louys' Manuel de Civilite pour les Petites Filles, and any of the
                    books in English—should be included in the test case. She also thought some Japanese
                    erotica seized earlier in 
                        Indianapolis
                     would contribute to the case but doubted that 
                        Indianapolis
                     customs would release the material to the 
                        New York
                     office.38 On that score Kinsey had good news. Alden Baker had
                    retired, and the new collector of customs was Deane E. Walker, a former state school superintendent
                    who had taught high school biology from Kinsey's textbook and who was, in Kinsey's
                    words, "very much interested in the University." Walker agreed to send the
                    Japanese material to the 
                        New York
                     customs office.39
            
            Although they had completed the groundwork for the test case, Kinsey's attorneys still had
                    not abandoned hope of reaching an administrative agreement with the Treasury Department. Pilpel
                    thought that if among other things Kinsey stipulated the safeguards taken to prevent public access
                    to institute materials and submitted a "specific analysis of why each of the items now
                    detained is of importance," they might be able to achieve a permanent understanding with
                    the department.40 Kinsey reluctantly agreed to another attempt for an
                    administrative exception, but expressed misgivings. He believed firmly in the right of scientific
                    inquiry, and his difficulties with the Customs Bureau simply increased his 
                  
                     36 Alfred C. Kinsey to Philobiblon, March 22, 1951, ibid.
                  
                  
                     37 Philobiblon to Alfred C. Kinsey, April 4, 1951, ibid.
                  
                  
                     38 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, May 14, 1951; Harriet Pilpel to
                            Alfred C. Kinsey, May 31, 1951, ibid.
                  
                  
                     39 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, June 19, 1951, ibid.
                  
                  
                     40 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, May 9, 1952, ibid.
                  
               
                     determination to uphold that right. In a letter to Pilpel on
                    June 3, 1952, Kinsey opposed any agreement which would compel him to justify the need for individual
                    items: 
                  
                     
                        It is the equivalent of asking an explorer to tell how he is going to use the
                                    material he may find on a previously unexplored continent. …
                        We could very easily be put into the position of spending a major portion of our time
                                    justifying the mere accumulation of our data. … This is not the
                                    "academic freedom" for which American colleges and universities
                                    have always stood. …
                        I recognize that we may save time in our initial case if we settle the matter with
                                    individuals and compromise in regard to particular objects. But I am very
                                        skeptical.41
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            As 1952 drew to a close, the controversy was no nearer conclusion. Pilpel finally presented her
                    arguments for an administrative exception on May 14, 1953, to Treasury Counsel Charles R. McNeill.
                    The legal arguments were the same as those she offered in the 1950 application to Huntington Cairns:
                    an "implied exception" existed in the tariff act of 1930 for qualified persons as
                    set down in U.S. v. One Package. On this occasion, however, she
                    also argued that the social and scientific value of the institute's research could be
                    attested to by many physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists, penologists, and sociologists who had
                    benefited from Kinsey's work.42
            
            Months passed before the Treasury Department acted on the request. While the legal case was stalled,
                    Kinsey published Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. Within ten days of the
                    September 14, 1953, publication, the book was in its sixth printing, bringing further attention and
                    criticism to Kinsey and the institute. Congressman Louis B. Heller of 
                        New York
                     proposed that the book be banned from the mails until a congressional investigation
                    could be held. In January, 1954, it was rumored that the Special House Committee to Investigate
                    Tax-Exempt Foundations, headed by 
                        Tennessee
                    's B. Carroll Reece, would examine the institute.43 In
                    April of 1954 the Treasury Department had yet to make a decision on the Kinsey request, and Pilpel
                    remarked, "It is clear that this is a ‘hot potato’ which the
                    Secretary of the Treasury is not anxious to carry if he can avoid it."44
            
            
               
                  41 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, June 3, 1952, ibid.
               
               
                  42 Harriet Pilpel to Charles R. McNeill, May 14, 1953, ibid.
               
               
                  43 Cornelia V. Christenson, Kinsey: A Biography (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1971), 158 ff.
               
                  44 Harriet Pilpel to Alfred C. Kinsey, April 22, 1954, Institute
                    Papers.
            
            
            Pilpel and McNeill did not meet again until November, 1955, when McNeill indicated that the treasury
                    might accept a loose definition of classical or scientific works, but not to the point of admitting
                    such items as "dirty postcards."45 Since Kinsey had flatly
                    rejected such a compromise, Pilpel informed McNeill on December 8 that the institute felt the
                    artistic value of the importations was immaterial, that "all the challenged importations
                    are germane and important to the scientific studies conducted … and that unless
                    scientific inquiry and research is to be stifled, all the raw materials for such inquiry
                    … must be importable." She urged an immediate Treasury Department decision.46 A decision was indeed forthcoming. On February 13, 1956, Secretary of the
                    Treasury George M. Humphrey ruled against administrative discretion for institute importations and
                    ordered the Justice Department to initiate forfeiture proceedings against the detained materials.47
            
            When he learned of the decision, Indiana University's President Wells made one last effort
                    to avoid a court battle. He persuaded Governor George N. Craig to write a letter to Humphrey
                    expressing his support for the work of the Institute for Sex Research. But Assistant Secretary David
                    W. Kendall, replying to Craig at Humphrey's request, asserted that the issue was beyond the
                    administrative authority of the Treasury Department. Governor Craig felt the answer was "a
                    pretty good brush off."48
            
            The government filed its libel against the institute's detained materials on August 1, 1956.
                    Wells then asked 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer Hubert H. Hickam to represent the university's interests in the case.
                    While he fully recognized the ability of Ernst and Pilpel, the president hoped to reinforce the
                    university's support of the institute by also tapping the legal talents of
                    Hickam's solid corporation oriented law firm.49
            
            
               
                  45 Harriet Pilpel, "Memorandum re Customs Detentions of
                        Materials: Conference at Treasury Department, Friday, November 25," [1955], ibid.
               
               
                  46 Harriet Pilpel to Charles R. McNeill, December 8, 1955, ibid.
               
               
                  47 David W. Kendall to Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst, February 13,
                        1956, ibid.
               
               
                  48 George N. Craig to George M. Humphrey, February 28, 1956; Herman B
                        Wells to George N. Craig, February 29, 1956; David W. Kendall to George N. Craig, n.d.; George
                        N. Craig to Herman B Wells, March 24, 1956, ibid.
               
               
                  49 Author's interview with Herman B Wells, November 20,
                    1973.
            
            
            To keep the university's position as uncontroversial as possible, Wells opposed acceptance
                    of an offer by the American Civil Liberties Union to provide legal assistance on the case. Although
                    Kinsey complained to Pilpel's associate Leo Rosen about this rejection of assistance,50 President Wells' concern for the university's public image
                    was understandable. Announcement of the government's action had resulted in a series of
                    anti-Kinsey editorials, particularly in the Hearst newspapers.51 Kinsey,
                    emotionally as well as intellectually involved in the case, had perhaps forgotten that while Wells
                    had to consider the effect of the customs suit on the entire university, he had stood by Kinsey
                    since the beginning of his controversial research.52
            
            Exhausted in body and spirit by years of overwork that had begun even before the customs
                    difficulties, Kinsey was by this time a dying man. Several weeks after being hospitalized with heart
                    trouble, he had written to Harriet Pilpel: "I have been more or less continuously in bed,
                    in the hospital and at home, for the last three weeks. It is this heart again, and it impresses me
                    with the importance of getting our business done systematically, while I can still keep at
                        it."53 While recuperating at home Kinsey was visited by President
                    Wells who assured him that the Indiana University Board of Trustees supported his approaching court
                    fight. Wells recalls that Kinsey appeared agitated and far from healthy. When the professor left the
                    room to find some notes, Wells expressed his concern to Mrs. Kinsey, saying, "Clara,
                    we've got to put a stop to this. The man is killing himself." Mrs. Kinsey replied,
                    "I know, but there's nothing to do about it. He won't stop."54
            
            Kinsey was still in poor condition when he insisted on returning to work. Blaine Johnson, then a
                    student and part time institute employee, remembers driving him to work, 
                  
                     50 Alfred C. Kinsey to Leo Rosen, August 8, 1956, Institute Papers.
                  
                     51 An editorial denouncing Kinsey's materials as
                            "just plain dirty pictures" which "could not possibly contribute
                            anything to genuine scientific research" appeared in the 
                                New York
                            
                            Daily Mirror, August 3, 1956. Other editorials with the same phrasing
                            subsequently appeared in the 
                                Boston
                            
                            American, August 4, 1956; the 
                        Albany, New York
                     , Times, August 7, 1956; and the 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Sun-Telegraph, August 7, 1956. See clippings of these newspapers in the
                            Institute Papers.
                  
                     52 See Christenson, Kinsey, passim., and Wardell B.
                            Pomeroy, Dr. Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research (
                                New York
                            , 1972), passim.
                  
                  
                     53 Alfred C. Kinsey to Harriet Pilpel, June 26, 1956, Institute
                            Papers.
                  
                     54 Author's interview with Herman B Wells, November 20,
                        1973.
               
                    
                    
                  ALFRED C. KINSEY
                  
                  Courtesy Institute for Sex Research
               
                     while the professor, too ill to drive himself, slumped in the
                    seat and grumbled about physicians who did not know anything.55 The strain on
                    Kinsey showed in other ways. In a telephone conversation with Rosen on August 9, Kinsey informed the
                    attorney that he contemplated a magazine article about the right of a scientist to conduct research
                    on sexual behavior. When Ernst learned Kinsey's intention, he expressed fear that Kinsey
                    was "apt to be too modest and self-effacing" about his own contributions to sex
                    research and suggested that someone else, perhaps George W. Corner or Vannevar Bush, write the
                        article.56 Kinsey's response was stinging: 
                  
                     
                        I have known Morrist [sic] Ernst for about 8 years. If, in the
                                    course of that time I have never been able to get him here to 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , never been able to get him to sit down and get him to listen to any of
                                    the actual heat we have had to take in order to do this research, how on earth can
                                    we get a man like Vannevar Bush, who is an outspoken and avowed critic of the
                                    research, ever to give us enough time to convince him of the problem we are facing.
                                    We have already depended too much upon other people who have written on second-hand
                                    impressions and who do not know the facts of the endless complications we have had
                                    to face in these last 18 years.
                     
                  
                I suggest you show this letter to Morris.57
            
            It was an unfortunate letter, far more indicative of Kinsey's ill health than of a breakdown
                    in the friendship that had developed over the years. The two men had great admiration for each
                    other, and in suggesting that someone else write the article, Ernst was paying a compliment. The
                    episode, however, proved the unhappy final note of their friendship, for twelve days later Kinsey
                    was dead, "the inevitable result of all those years of driving labor, of short nights and
                    long days, of dedication to the point of exhaustion."58
            
            The customs suit outlived Kinsey by more than a year. Always the dominant figure at the institute, he
                    had handled every detail of the case. The new director, Paul Gebhard, had much to learn as he,
                    Pilpel, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorneys, Hickam and Jerry Belknap, prepared for the legal battle. Gebhard requested
                    distinguished individuals to file affidavits in support of the institute, while the attorneys
                    prepared 
                  
                     55 Author's interview with Alan Blaine Johnson, November 23,
                            1973.
                  
                     56 Leo Rosen to Alfred C. Kinsey, August 10, 1956, Institute Papers.
                  
                     57 Alfred C. Kinsey to Leo Rosen, August 13, 1956, ibid. Kinsey's reasons for considering Vannevar Bush "an outspoken
                            and avowed critic" are not clear.
                  
                     58 Pomeroy, Dr. Kinsey, 439.
               
                     several legal maneuvers.59 In a meeting
                    with Assistant District Attorney Benjamin T. Richards, Pilpel sought to avoid argument in court by
                    proposing four stipulations, or agreements: a recognition of the scholarly character of the
                    institute, the importance of its research, the relevance of the detained materials to its work, and
                    the safeguards taken by the institute to restrict public access to erotic materials. The institute
                    attorneys also agreed to seek a summary judgment by the court to avoid the time and expense of a
                    jury trial. Hickam presented a motion for intervention on behalf of Indiana University in the
                    Southern District Court of 
                        New York
                    , and when that motion was denied, filed an amicus curiae brief.60
            
            The government also filed a motion for summary judgment against the detained materials on June 5,
                    1957, citing violation of section 305 of the tariff act of 1930. On July 16 Pilpel and Richards
                    appeared before Judge Edmund L. Palmieri to present their arguments. Pilpel defended the standing of
                    the Institute for Sex Research in the academic community, the careful conditions under which erotic
                    materials were supervised, and the importance of the detained materials to the institute's
                    research. She cited U.S. v. One Package (1936) to show that the
                    courts had admitted that an implied exception to the tariff law existed. She also maintained that
                    obscenity was not absolute but variable, dependent on use, as set down in U.S. v.
                        Levine (1936), in which the court had ruled that the standard of obscenity had
                    to weigh the likelihood of material's appeal to the "salacity of the
                        reader."61 Pilpel doubted that the scientific study of 
                  
                     59 Among those who contributed affadavits were Professor Frank A.
                            Beach of the Yale University psychology department; Dr. Karl A. Bowman, a psychiatrist and
                            teacher at the University of 
                                California
                             Medical Center; Dr. George W. Corner of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical
                            Research; and Eleanor Johnson, the librarian of the 
                                New York
                             Academy of Medicine.
                  
                     60 In a summary proceeding the participants agree to settle the case
                            in court in as simple a manner as possible. In an intervention a third party demands the
                            right to be received as a party in the case; amicus curiae, or
                            "friend of the court," refers to a third party who has no right to appear
                            in a suit but is allowed to introduce argument or evidence to protect his interests. See
                            Henry Campbell Black, Black's Law Dictionary: Definitions of the Terms
                                and Phrases of American and English Jurisprudence, Ancient and Modern (
                                St. Paul
                            , Minn., 1968).
                  
                     61 Levine was originally convicted for mailing obscene advertisements
                            for a book entitled Secret Museum of Anthropology, a photographic
                            collection of "nude female savages from different parts of the world." The
                            court ruled that what might be obscene in the hands of a child would not be obscene to an
                            adult. The standard had to vary according to the reader. U.S. v. Levine, 83 F 2d 156 (1936).
               
                     obscenity would arouse the lasciviousness of institute
                    researchers. But then, after arguing that the institute merited an administrative exception to the
                    law, she boldly switched direction to argue that there existed a constitutional right of freedom of
                    inquiry. There could be no doubt that "official regulation of the manner in which Americans
                    seek to learn the truth is not a valid purpose of the legislative control in this
                        country."62
            
            Richards countered that while the government did not dispute the high reputation of the Institute for
                    Sex Research or the value of the institute's investigations, neither did the institute
                    dispute the obscene character of the challenged importations. The tariff act of 1930 provided no
                    implied exception for scientists, since the contraceptive devices at issue in the One
                        Package case were not analogous to the obscene materials at issue in 31
                        Photographs. As Judge Augustus Hand had ruled in the Ulysses case in
                    1934, "the importation of obscene books is prohibited generally, and no provision is made
                    permitting such importation because of the character of those to whom they are sold." It
                    was the duty of the court, Richards argued, to enforce the statute as it stood until such time as
                    Congress might amend it. Should the court "permit itself to be lured into legislative
                    action in the guise of an implied exception," it would virtually nullify the obscenity
                    provision of the tariff act and "invite wholesale commercial traffic in foreign pornography
                    imported and distributed by spurious scientific organizations."63
                    Richards denied that forfeiture of the libeled articles would violate the institute's
                    constitutional rights. The most recent case handed down from the Supreme Court, Roth v. 
                        
                            United States
                        
                     (1957), had reaffirmed the doctrine that obscenity was outside the bounds of constitutional
                    protection. Since the institute materials were admittedly obscene, they could claim no
                    constitutional refuge.64
            
            Once the arguments were presented, there was nothing to do but wait. August and September slipped by
                    without a decision. Then on October 9 Judge Palmieri proposed four 
                  
                     62 "U.S. v. 31
                            Photographs: Brief in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment of the Claimant,"
                            88, Institute Papers.
                  
                     63 "U.S. v. 31
                            Photographs: Libellant's Memorandum of Law Upon Cross-Motions for Summary
                            Judgment," courtesy of Barnes, Hickam, Pantzer and Boyd (
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     64
                            Roth, of course, is generally remembered for defining obscenity as
                            material which appeals to "prurient interest" of the average person and
                            for insisting that a work has to be judged as a whole rather than on the basis of selected
                            passages. Roth v. U.S., 354 U.S. 476 (1957).
               
                     stipulations between the opposing sides. It seemed clear, he
                    said, that both parties agreed to the prurient nature of the libeled materials and the sole
                    scientific purpose for which the institute utilized them. It was also evident that the institute
                    prevented public access to its obscene collections and that the material probably would not appeal
                    to the prurient interest of the qualified persons who used them.65
            
            Richards reacted strongly to the proposed stipulations. He agreed that the materials were obviously
                    obscene but would not concede that scholars enjoyed any immunity to the efforts of pornography. The
                    government did not challenge the purposes of the institute or deny the restricted availability of
                    the materials to the public, but Richards argued that these conditions could not be demonstrated in
                        fact.66 Pilpel's rebuttal struck hard at this reasoning. The
                    institute had already presented the affidavits of many experts in the fields of psychology,
                    medicine, and sociology to demonstrate these conditions. Richards, she said, could not at the same
                    time concede the institute's arguments and still deny them by innuendo. If he could not
                    challenge them outright, they had to stand uncontroverted.67
            
            On October 31 Judge Palmieri handed down a decision in favor of the institute. In his view the
                    question at bar was the meaning of the word "obscene" as it appeared in section
                    305 of the tariff act. The latest definition available to the court in the Roth
                    decision defined obscenity as material that appealed to the prurient interest of the average person.
                    The staff of the Institute for Sex Research was not made up of average persons but of scholars who
                    imported erotic material solely for the purpose of scientific research. This material was carefully
                    restricted from the general public's access, and it was not likely to appeal to the
                    prurient interest of those to whom it was available for study. He therefore ruled that the detained
                    importations were not prohibited to the institute and ordered their release.68
            
            
               
                  65 Alvin H. Schulman (law clerk to Judge Palmieri) to Benjamin Richards,
                        October 9, 1957, Institute Papers.
               
                  66 Benjamin T. Richards to Edmund L. Palmieri, October 14, 1957, ibid.
               
               
                  67 Harriet Pilpel to Edmund L. Palmieri, October 18, 1957, ibid.
               
               
                  68
                        U.S. v. 31 Photographs: Decision in Support of Summary
                        Judgment for the Claimant, the Institute for Sex Research at Indiana University," ibid.
               
            
            
            The Kinsey customs case was over, nearly seven years after a wandering reporter casually had entered
                    Alden Baker's customs office in search of a cup of coffee. The case cost the institute more
                    than $11,000 in legal fees and would have been double that if not for the generosity of
                    the attorneys involved.69 The research time lost was incalculable.
            What did it all mean? In asserting that scholars might view obscene materials without any appeal to
                    their prurient interest, the Kinsey case established a definition of obscenity based on the variable
                    identity of the receiving group. While Pilpel thought the decision reaffirmed the principle of
                    freedom of scientific inquiry,70 one writer warned that the precedent could
                    provide "an opportunity for trafficking in salacity."71
                    Professors William B. Lockhart and Robert C. McClure urged the courts to adopt the variable concept
                    as the standard definition of obscenity.72
            
            The variable concept of obscenity set down in 31 Photographs has never been
                    developed, although it occasionally has been paid lip service.73 Instead the
                    Supreme Court has sought to remove itself from the labyrinth of obscenity law by adopting a
                    guideline which allows the local community to define obscenity according to its own contemporary
                    standard. Thus, in Miller v. 
                        
                            California
                        
                     (1973), the court upheld the defendant's conviction for mailing unsolicited sexual
                    materials, such as Sex Orgies Illustrated, because he violated the contemporary
                    community standard of 
                  Orange county, California
               .74 All too soon, however, the
                    court found itself 
                  
                     69 Paul H. Gebhard to Harriet Pilpel, September 19, 1957, ibid. Ernst and Pilpel calculated the legal fees at $22,070 and invited
                            the institute to make whatever payment it could. Gebhard suggested one half the normal fee,
                            to which they agreed.
                  
                     70 Harriet F. Pilpel, "But Can You Do That?", Publisher's Weekly, CLXXII (November 25, 1957), 27–28.
                  
                     71 Ralph E. Pratt, "Case Notes: Obscenity," 
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 Law Review, VII (1958), 216–19.
                  
                     72 William B. Lockhart and Robert C. McClure, "Censorship of
                            Obscenity: The Developing Constitutional Standard," 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 Law Review, XLV (1960), 1–121.
                  
                     73 In Ginzberg v. U.S. (383 U.S.
                            463, 1966) Justice Brennan invited a comparison between the institute's scientific
                            use of obscene materials and Ginzberg's pandering; in Interstate
                                Circuit, Inc. v. City of Dallas (366 F 2d 590, 1966) Judge Homer
                            Thornberry on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, cited the variable concept of 31 Photographs when he upheld a city ordinance classifying motion pictures as
                            suitable or unsuitable for children under age sixteen.
                  
                     74
                     Miller v. 
                                
                                    California
                                
                            , 413 U.S. 15 (1973).
               
                     drawn into the obscenity maze once again. In Jenkins v. 
                        
                            Georgia
                        
                     (1974) the court overturned the conviction of an 
                        Albany
                     theater manager for showing the film Carnal Knowledge, holding that a
                    jury does not have "unbridled discretion" to determine that simple nudity is
                    patently offensive to the community standard.75 Thus the concept of contemporary
                    community standards has already revealed its limitations, and appellate courts once again are forced
                    to review obscenity decisions.
            No matter what definition of obscenity the courts may adopt, the basic problem remains: obscenity is
                    virtually undefinable, as Justice Potter Stewart acknowledged when he remarked, "I know it
                    when I see it."76 The variable receiving group concept could rise to
                    the foreground in the next obscenity case that appears before any court in the land. But until the
                    term obscenity is defined, and its effects recognized, no test can have any lasting value. Perhaps
                    the work done by Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research will be of help in this
                    task.
            
               
                  75
                        Jenkins v. 
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        , 418 U.S. 153 (1974).
               
                  76
                        Jacobellis v. 
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        , 378 U.S. 184 (1964).
            
         
         
         
            William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: Second Senatorial Term,
                        1831–1837*
            
            Edited by Frederick D. Hill**
            
            Before the end of his first term in 1831 Senator William Hendricks' nonpartisan stance was
                    beginning to alienate persons in each of the emerging political parties. Some of his opponents in
                    Indiana and elsewhere attempted for more than a year to prevent his reelection in 1830. The Adams-
                        Clay
                     faction condemned him for supporting senatorial confirmation of President Andrew
                    Jackson's appointments. Jacksonians criticized him for not being a thorough going
                    Jacksonian in legislative matters.1
            
            Indiana political parties, however, were loose coalitions for winning elections and controlling
                    patronage rather than organizations of persons holding unique political views. Jacksonianism
                    consisted of loyalty to a person more than adherence to a program. One might easily prefer Jackson
                    to John Quincy Adams or Henry Clay in the White House, yet 
                  
                     * An introduction to the political career of William
                            Hendricks and a discussion of political circulars and their use by Hendricks and others were
                            included in the first article in this three part series. See Frederick D. Hill [ed.],
                            "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: Congressional
                            Period, 1816–1822," Indiana Magazine of History, LXX
                            (December, 1974), 296–344. The second article in the series was Frederick D.
                            Hill, ed., "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents:
                            First Senatorial Term, 1825–1831," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXI (June, 1975), 124–80.
                  
                     ** Frederick D. Hill is professor of history at
                            Indiana Central University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 Philip Sweetser to John Tipton, May 13, 1829, John Tipton Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); editorials, 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Public Advertiser, February 6, August 23, 1828; editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, December 3, 1831; communications, "By their
                            fruits shall ye know them" and "Beware of Woolves in Sheeps'
                            Clothing" signed "Jefferson," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat and State Gazette, May 20, June 10, 1830.
               
                     be fully confident of Hendricks' integrity and ability
                    to represent Indiana in 
                        Washington
                    —despite his friendship with 
                        Clay
                    . Though hostile expressions aimed at Hendricks can be found in private correspondence
                    and in the press, he was still a popular man in Indiana at the end of his first term. On December
                    18, 1830, the Indiana General Assembly elected William Hendricks to a second term as 
                        United States
                     senator. On the first three ballots he led Congressman Ratliff Boon, the main
                    challenger and an avowed Jacksonian, and others by increasing pluralities; on the fourth he received
                    forty-four votes, two more than needed for election.2
            
            During his second term Hendricks continued as leader of the internal improvement forces in the
                    Senate. He was always chairman of the Standing Committee on Roads and Canals whether committee
                    chairmen were being appointed by the presiding officer or elected by the senators. He also served
                    four sessions on the Committee on Militia and one session each on the Committee on Manufactures and
                    the Committee on Private Land Claims.3 He was in his seat for the opening of
                    every session;4 he answered approximately ninty-five percent of the roll calls;
                    and he voted with a majority of his colleagues almost seventy-five percent of the time.5 Exercising his independent judgment, however, he dared to oppose both a
                    majority of the senators and the president whenever he believed that a different policy would serve
                    his constituents and the nation better.
            
               
                  2 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana
                            Election Returns, 1816–1851 (Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vol. XL; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1960), 128.
               
                  3
                        Senate Journal, 22 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 211), 18 (December 7,
                        1831); ibid., 22 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 229), 21 (December 10, 1832);
                            ibid., 23 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 237), 45 (December 16, 1833);
                            ibid., 23 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 265), 35 (December 11, 1834);
                            ibid., 24 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 278), 40–42 (December
                        16, 17, 1835); ibid., 24 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 296), 32, 34
                        (December 12, 14, 1836).
               
                  4
                        Ibid., 22 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 211), 4 (December 5, 1831); ibid., 22 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 229), 4 (December 3, 1832); ibid., 23 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 237), 4 (December 2, 1833); ibid., 23 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 265), 4 (December 1, 1834); ibid., 24 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 278), 4 (December 7, 1835); ibid., 24 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 296), 4 (December 5, 1836).
               
                  5 These percentages were computed from roll call votes recorded in the Register of Debates, 22–24 Cong. (December 5, 1831-March 3, 1837)
                        and the Congressional Globe, 23–24 Cong. (December 2, 1833-March 3,
                        1837).
            
            
            As the end of his second term approached, Hendricks' popularity waned. Politics was becoming
                    increasingly partisan, and for the first time he openly supported a presidential candidate, Martin
                    Van Buren, Jackson's heir apparent. While he thus offended Indiana's Whig
                    supporters of William Henry Harrison, many Democrats remained skeptical of his sincerity; and when
                    he tried to conduct a nonpartisan senatorial campaign, it was declared that his
                    "noncommittal course, and his trimming between the political parties of
                    this State, can no longer serve his purposes. He will be unmasked, and his false
                    face rendered useless."6 Also Hendricks' more than two
                    decades in high public office had aroused jealousy and personal animosity in various quarters. On
                    December 8, 1836, shortly before senatorial balloting began, handbills alleging that he had
                    defrauded his mother-in-law in a real estate transaction, were distributed to members of the General
                    Assembly on behalf of Jeremiah Sullivan,7 who coveted Hendricks' Senate
                    seat. On the ninth senatorial ballot Oliver H. Smith was chosen to succeed Hendricks. Noah Noble had
                    led on the first seven ballots while Hendricks ranked third on the first ballot and second on the
                    third, fourth, and fifth. His largest vote, however, was only fifty, and seventy-four were needed to
                        win.8
            
            It is impossible to assess the relative effects of several factors on Hendricks' defeat.
                    Among the key factors were his support of Van Buren for the presidency when Harrison carried
                    Indiana, his nonpartisan stance in the Senate, his alleged effort to be all things to all men in
                    Indiana, and his rumored unfair business dealings with his mother-in-law. It appears, however, that
                    he accepted this defeat that ended his career in public office with his usual equanimity. Having
                    "been a favored citizen of the state a good while," he said, he could not complain
                    about the results of the election. He did, however, object to Sullivan's handbill that he
                    described as 
                  
                     6 Editorial, 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, quoted in 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Post, September 30, 1836; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Republican Banner, October 19, 1836; editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, November 25, 1835; communication to [
                                Terre Haute
                            ] 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Courier, signed "A 
                                Wabash
                             Citizen," quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, November 30, 1836.
                  
                     7 William Hendricks "To the People of Indiana,"
                            handbills dated November 22, December 21, 1837, William Hendricks Papers (Indiana Historical
                            Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     8 Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns,
                            131.
               
                     "calumnious, false & vile like its
                        authors."9 When Hendricks left the Senate in 1837 and retired from
                    public office, he had represented Indiana in Congress longer than any other man. He had sat in the
                    House of Representatives from 1816 to 1822 and the Senate from 1825 to 1837. During these eighteen
                    years in 
                        Washington
                    , he gave careful attention to the needs and desires of those who had elected him.
                    According to an anonymous writer, "He left no letter unanswered, no public office or
                    document did he fail to visit or examine on request."10
            
            Despite shifting alignments in an era of growing political partisanship, Hendricks remained
                    independent, although he supported Van Buren in 1836. Regardless of who occupied the White House or
                    what faction controlled Congress, he consistently supported internal improvements built at federal
                    expense; Indian removal to make more land available for settlement and prevent friction between
                    Indians and whites; a liberal federal land policy; a stable monetary system regulated by a national
                    bank; a protective tariff; confinement of slavery to states where it already existed; and a strong
                    central government. Sometimes he supported incompatible programs in the hope that if his first
                    choice failed to pass his second one would be enacted. He often settled for less than he and his
                    constituents wanted because he believed that half a loaf was better than none.
            Admittedly on the national scene Hendricks did not make the impact of such contemporaries as Thomas
                    Hart Benton, John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, or Daniel Webster, and he antagonized various people. But
                    Smith, his successor, doubtless described him accurately when he said, "He was not of the
                    very first order of talents, but made all up by his plain, practical, good sense. He never attempted
                    to speak upon subjects he did not understand."11
            
            As long as he was in Congress, Hendricks continued to inform his constituents about questions of
                    public interest by means of annual political circulars. Public land policy, internal improvements,
                    Indian affairs, and the tariff were perennial topics. Issues confronting the nation for the first
                        
                  
                     9 Hendricks to David G. Mitchell, December 22, 1836, William H.
                            English Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     10
                            The Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical Dictionary of the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1849), 122.
                  
                     11 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 86.
               
                     time during his last term were nullification, renewal of the
                    charter of the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , and the treasury surplus. Diplomatic concerns included Texan independence and
                    spoliation claims against 
                        France
                    .
            In the mid-1830s land receipts were at their peak for the nation as a whole and for Indiana. Some
                    Americans considered land sales an ideal source of revenue in place of taxes, but others wanted to
                    support internal improvements, education, poor relief, and other public activities through land
                    grants to state and local governments and public service institutions.12
                    Hendricks believed that Congress was exploiting the West by selling land to raise revenue instead of
                    making it more readily available to settlers for building up the West or granting it to public
                    agencies for social and economic improvement of the region. As long as he was in 
                        Washington
                    , he worked to modify land laws for the benefit of actual settlers. He supported price
                    reduction, price graduation, homesteading on land unsold for ten years, the right of preemption,
                    cession of unsold public lands to states where located, and a minimum purchase of only forty
                        acres.13 Hendricks thought it strange that these proposals were described as
                    wild schemes, with cession to states considered the wildest of them all, when nearly every western
                    legislature was on record as favoring cession. Easterners, according to him, believed they had
                    bought the West with their blood exclusively, but he contended that westerners were also sons of the
                        revolution.14
            
            In 1833 a new land policy was proposed under the leadership of Henry Clay. The five percent of net
                    proceeds that had long been earmarked for internal improvements for the new states was increased to
                    seventeen and one half percent, and for the next five years the remaining net proceeds were to be
                    distributed among all states in proportion to their congressional representation and spent at each
                    state's discretion. President Jackson, however, vetoed 
                        Clay
                    's distribution bill.15
                    
                  
                     12 See Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Land Office Business:
                                The Settlement and Administration of American Public Lands, 1789–1837 (
                                New York
                            , 1971) for full coverage of public land policy during this period.
                  
                     13
                            Senate Journal, 22 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 211),
                            103–104, 153 (January 30, February 27, 1832); ibid., 22 Cong.,
                            2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 229), 151 (February 2, 1833); Register of
                            Debates, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 1160 (June 30, 1832).
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 616, 1092 (March 22, June 18, 1832).
                  
                     15 See below, pp. 341–42; James D, Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), III, 56–69.
               
                     Hendricks' apparent inconsistency in supporting such
                    incompatible options as federally financed internal improvements, reduced land prices, and
                    distribution of the proceeds of land sales was evidence of his political realism. He worked on
                    behalf of his constituents for whatever seemed attainable at the time and patiently waited for an
                    opportunity to achieve what he thought was better.
            From 1831 to 1835 appropriations for continued construction of the Cumberland Road caused little
                    controversy in the Senate.16 Construction was proceeding both ways from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,17 and the appropriations, though seldom as large as Hendricks
                    wanted, were almost routine. In 1835, however, Congress began to transfer eastern segments of the
                    road to the states in which they were located, and interest in further construction in the West
                    seemed to wane.18 The next year, in an attempt to get $860,000 for
                    construction in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , Hendricks made one of his infrequent speeches.19 Though his
                    address seems designed to answer specific attacks on the bill, he failed to convince the Senate; and
                    the appropriation was only $550,000. Indiana received $250,000 instead of the
                    $350,000 that Hendricks' committee had recommended, but despite this he and
                    Senator John Tipton were said to "have done themselvss [sic] credit, and
                    reflected honor upon the state they represent. …"20
            
            Two other transportation projects of immediate concern to the people of Indiana were clearing the
                    rapids from the Wabash River below 
                        Vincennes
                     and improving or replacing the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canalat the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    .21 Despite Hendricks' insistence that with the completion
                    of the 
                  
                     16 See Philip D. 
                                Jordan
                            , The National Road (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948) for a popular account of the construction of this famous road and life
                            and work along it.
                  
                     17 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 448.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Jordan
                            , The National Road, 170.
                  
                     19
                            Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 1 Sess., 629–35 (February 26,
                            1836).
                  
                     20 See below, p. 362; editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, April 27, 1836.
                  
                     21 Hendricks had been unsuccessfully promoting a canal to bypass the
                            Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             on the Indiana side of the river for more than a decade. For a survey of his
                            long term efforts on behalf of such a canal see Frederick D. Hill, "William
                            Hendricks: Indiana Politician and Western Advocate, 1812–1850" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1972), 42–46,
                            87–92, 163–64, 220–24.
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal the 
                        Wabash
                     rapids would be the last obstacle to an interstate waterway from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     and despite the fact that the 
                        Wabash
                     at this point was an interstate boundary, Jackson twice vetoed 
                        Wabash
                     improvement bills.22 Then the Senate lost interest in the matter.
            The 
                        Louisville
                     and Portland Canal, opened at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     in December, 1830, had cost about twice the construction estimates. As a result tolls
                    were high, traffic and profits low, and operation and maintenance poor. In 1833 the Senate Committee
                    on Roads and Canals recommended that the national government, which already owned one-third of the
                    canal's stock, should buy all privately owned stock and reduce the tolls to equal the cost
                    of operation and maintenance. But the Senate did not act. A few years later the canal company asked
                    Congress either to devote its share of the tolls to canal improvement or to relinquish the
                    government's dividends to the company. Hendricks' committee recommended instead
                    that the secretary of treasury buy enough stock to gain controlling interest or, if that were not
                    possible, sell out. In the latter case Hendricks anticipated that Congress would build a competing
                    canal from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        New Albany
                     in Indiana.23 Again no action was taken.
            As the frontier moved westward and pockets of Indians were surrounded by whites who coveted their
                    land, the maintenance of peace between the races became more difficult. The ongoing process of
                    acquiring title to Indian lands east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and moving the Indians to the West was occasionally punctuated with violence. The
                    outcome, however, of such uprisings as the Seminole War in 
                        Florida
                     and the Black Hawk War in the Old Northwest was never in doubt. Hendricks was not an
                    Indian hater, but because he considered them backward he believed separation to be the only answer
                        
                  
                     22 For information concerning Jackson's 1832 and 1834 vetoes
                            of bills carrying appropriations for improvement of the Wabash River
                            see Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., Messages and Papers Relating to
                                the Administration of Noah Noble, Governor of Indiana, 1831–1837 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1958), 41; Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections,
                            Vol. XXIV-XXVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), III, 85–93.
                  
                     23 Report from the Senate Committee on Roads and Canals in 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, February 7, 1833; Register of
                            Debates, 24 Cong., 1 Sess., 1564–70 (May 25, 1836); see below, p.
                        363.
               
                     to the problem of Indian-white relations. He favored moving the
                    Indians beyond the Mississippi River to areas that whites did not contemplate
                    occupying; and during most of this period he was optimistic about the early completion of Indian
                    removal from Indiana.24
            
            Though the government's Indian policy was generally supported by the people, the tariff had
                    become a source of controversy between northern manufacturers and southern producers and exporters
                    of raw materials. The "tariff of abominations," enacted in 1828, had raised the
                    rates to an unprecedented level, and prompted the 
                        South Carolina
                     legislature to deny that Congress possessed the constitutional authority to levy a
                    protective tariff.25 In the winter of 1831 Congress gave its attention to the
                    resulting clamor for tariff reform, but some of the rates in the tariff of 1832 were even higher.
                    Before Congress reconvened in December, 1832, 
                        South Carolina
                     declared the tariffs of 1828 and 1832 to be null, void, and unenforceable there after
                    February 1, 1833, and announced that any effort forcibly to collect the tariff in that state would
                    dissolve her bonds of loyalty and all connection with the Union.26
            
            When the first efforts toward reconciliation failed, Congress enacted the Revenue Collection Bill,
                    popularly known as the Force Bill. This measure, asserting the supremacy of the national government,
                    authorized President Jackson to use all the powers of his office to prevent obstruction of the law
                    by either civil or military action. Concurrently with the Force Bill, however, Congress developed
                    the Compromise Tariff of 1833, which provided gradual reduction until July 1, 1842, by which time no
                    rate would exceed twenty percent.27
                    
                  
                     24 Hill, "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to
                            his Constituents: First Senatorial Term, 1825–1831," 169–70;
                            see below, pp. 360–61, 362. To review the government's Indian policy as
                            illustrated by the experience of a northern and a southern tribe see Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (
                                Norman
                            , 1970) and Arthur H. DeRosier, Jr., The Removal of the Choctaw
                                Indians (
                                Knoxville
                            , 1970).
                  
                     25 Henry S. Commager, ed., Documents of American
                            History (New York, 1963), 249–51.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 261–62. For a detailed analysis of these events see
                            William W. Freehling, Prelude to Civil War: The Nullification Controversy in 
                                    South Carolina
                                , 1816–1836 (
                                New York
                            , 1966).
                  
                     27
                            Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 10–13 (March
                            2, 1833). This appendix has double pagination. Page numbers refer to the second set of
                            pages.
               
                    
                    
                        South Carolina
                     accepted the new tariff but, as a matter of principle, nullified the Force Bill.28 Hendricks opposed making concessions to 
                        South Carolina
                     by reopening the tariff question when the tariff of 1832 was not yet in effect; and he
                    supported the Force Bill and voted against the compromise tariff. According to him, 
                        South Carolina
                    's problem was not the tariff but "her overgrown and impoverishing
                    black population" and soil depletion which caused the enterprising whites to flock to the
                    more attractive West.29
            
            In the West the currency issue was doubtless of greater concern than the tariff. When the Second Bank
                    of the 
                        United States
                     exercised its regulatory powers over the country's monetary system in the
                    early thirties, the West suffered from a shortage of circulating medium as money was drained off
                    through payments for land and for goods from the East. But if there were no regulation, Hendricks
                    believed, the West would suffer from inflation, a consequence of wildcat banking.
            In his first annual message President Jackson questioned the constitutionality and expediency of the
                    national bank. He urged Congress to begin planning for an alternative institution or at least
                    extensive modification of the existing one when its charter expired in 1836. The bank, however, re-,
                    quested and Congress enacted charter renewal in 1832. Jackson, not having been consulted about
                    revision of the charter and finding changes that he considered essential absent from the new one,
                    vetoed it; and the Senate failed to override the veto. Then the president, by removing the
                    government's deposits from the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , virtually destroyed it before its current charter expired.30
                    Hendricks did not approve of the unregulated issue of paper money, nor was he committed to a hard
                    money policy. He favored using whatever forms of circulating medium were necessary and convenient to
                    achieve a prosperous economy; and it was on. this basis that he supported renewal of the bank
                        charter.31
            
            
               
                  28 Commager, Documents of American History,
                        269–70.
               
                  29
                        Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 688, 809 (February 20, March 1, 1833);
                        see below, p. 332.
               
                  30 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
                        II, 462; Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 1293–96 (July 13,
                        1832). See Robert V. Remini, Andrew Jackson and the Bank War (
                            New York
                        , 1967) for a thorough study of this struggle.
               
                  31
                        Register of Debates, 23 Cong., 1 Sess., 1805–11 (May 26,
                    1834).
            
            
            By the time the charter of the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     expired in 1836, the national government was out of debt, and surplus revenues were
                    piling up in the vaults of Jackson's pet banks. This circumstance had been anticipated as
                    early as 1832, and some had proposed reducing revenue by lowering the tariff. Instead of abolishing
                    tariff protection, Hendricks favored reducing revenues by thoroughly revising the land system or
                    reducing the surplus by distributing it among the states. The poor who had helped to build a
                    comfortable society in the East and then come west, he said, would like to duplicate those comforts
                    in the West. In his opinion new revenue policies should be formulated with them in mind.32 A bill providing for the distribution of surplus revenue to the states in
                    proportion to their representation in Congress was enacted in 1836. The states were to receive in
                    1837 any surplus over five million dollars that was in the treasury on January 1 of that year.
                    Indiana's share, which was technically a deposit, was $1,147,005.92; and the
                    first quarterly installment was distributed before Hendricks left 
                        Washington
                     in March.33 The Panic of 1837, which of course eliminated the
                    surplus, also halted distribution after the third installment.
            While easterners thronged to the Old Northwest and the upper Mississippi Valley
                    seeking new opportunities, large numbers of southern slaveholders, lured by fertile soil and a
                    favorable climate for cotton culture, relocated in the Mexican province of 
                        Texas
                    . When the Mexican government attempted to wipe out slavery, which was already illegal,
                    and stem the tide of foreign immigration, these pioneers declared their independence early in 1836.
                    Hendricks favored diplomatic recognition of 
                        Texas
                     as soon as a stable civil government was in operation there; whether annexed or not, he
                    said, 
                        Texas
                     "will be closely allied to us, and especially to the Southern States.
                        …"34
            
            A more difficult problem in foreign affairs was collecting for damage done by the French to American
                    shipping 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 614–16 (March 22, 1832).
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 24 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xix-xxi (June 23, 1836); see below, pp.
                            357–59, 367–68.
                  
                     34
                            Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 1 Sess., 1928 (July 1, 1836); see below,
                            pp. 370–71.
               
                     during the Napoleonic Wars. In a treaty signed in 1831, the
                    nations agreed to settle for twenty-five million francs or about five million dollars; but when the
                    French legislature failed to appropriate funds for the first payment, which was due early in 1833,
                    President Jackson recommended that reprisals be authorized by Congress. The Senate unanimously
                    opposed Jackson's stance, however, and Hendricks said it would be cheaper to drop the five
                    million dollar claim than to fight a naval war with 
                        France
                    . In 1836 
                        France
                     agreed to begin payment.35
            
            Hendricks concluded his last circular with a farewell that reflected mixed feelings of pride,
                    humility, and gratitude. He wrote: 
                        A few days will terminate the present Session, and with it in all probability forever, the
                            period of my public labors in the service of Indiana. It is not for me to say in what manner
                            I have discharged the duties committed to my care. This however I might be permitted to say,
                            and I hope I might say it without arrogance, that in every situation of public life to which
                            I have been called, in no instance, has any consideration of personal interest, or ambition,
                            been allowed to take the place of the interests of the State. However humble may have been
                            the talents and qualifications brought into her service, they have been faithfully employed
                            in giving impulse to her best interests. Others may serve her with more ability, but none
                            with more devotion, zeal and fidelity. … I shall never cease to owe her a debt of
                            gratitude, and one so large that I shall never be able to pay.36
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  35 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
                        III, 106–107; Register of Debates, 23 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                        215–16 (January 14, 1835); see below, pp. 353–54, 364–65.
               
                  36 See below, pp. 373–74.
            
            
            Hendricks' Circulars*
            
            Circular Relating to the 22nd Congress, 1st Session (1831–1832)1
            
            
               WASHINGTON CITY, JUNE 20, 1832.
            SIR:
            The present Session has been one of great length, and as few will have failed to perceive, one also
                    of much political discord and strife.2 The elements of our free institutions
                    always in motion, have more than usually been employed in the work of party, and in the struggle for
                    political power. That the spirit of liberty should always be on the watch-tower, is salutary and
                    needful to the body politic, but the spirit of discord has for years past been gaining a fearful
                    ascendancy, and forebodes much of evil to our free institutions. In the history of former Republics,
                    this spirit has always been the harbinger of destruction: now, it has become dangerous to our best
                    interests, and to the union of the States; and he is no patriot, no matter what name he may assume,
                    or to what party he may belong, who would add fuel 
                  
                     * The editor has attempted to reproduce these circulars as
                            closely as possible to the form in which they were originally published. Vagaries of
                            spelling, capitalization, and paragraphing have been followed exactly as in the original
                            text. In some instances stray marks or imperfections in the original have made it impossible
                            to ascertain whether or not commas or periods are used, and in these cases the editor has
                            made what seems to be the correct punctuation. Letters and words have been put in brackets
                            in two cases: where the letters were omitted in the spelling of the word; and where the
                            print was too faint or fragmented and therefore not legible. A [sic] has
                            been used to indicate errors only if it was felt that confusion might result over whether
                            the mistakes were editorial, authorial, or typographical. Otherwise incorrect and phonetic
                            spellings have been retained as found. Obvious repetition of the same word in the text has
                            been deleted. The spelling of Indian names has followed that in the original text. When
                            names first appear in the text, identification of persons or places hag been made in either
                            brackets or footnotes. In cases where geographical locations, acts of Congress, or other
                            types of potentially unclear references are made, bracketed information has been added to
                            clarify the text. These circulars are printed in full from photocopies of the originals.
                  
                     1 This circular is reprinted from a broadside in the Broadside
                            Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). This session of Congress convened December 5, 1831, and adjourned July 16,
                            1832.
                  
                     2 This was the longest session during Hendricks' eighteen
                            years in Congress. The struggle in Congress to renew the charter of the Second Bank of the 
                                United States
                             and President Andrew Jackson's veto of the new charter provided the
                            major issue in the presidential campaign that had already begun. For a detailed analysis of
                            this contest that pitted Henry Clay against the incumbent Jackson see Robert V. Remini, Andrew Jackson and the Bank War (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 67–108.
               
                     to the flame, and sow the seeds of disunion and civil war. It
                    is not however ray purpose in this letter, to attempt a lecture on our political affairs, but to
                    detail, as I have been in the habit of doing on former occasions, the prominent Legislative business
                    of the Session.
            A few subjects have occupied much of the time and attention of the present Session. These have been
                    the Bank Charter, the apportionment of representatives among the several States under the late
                    census, and the tariff. The latter has occupied more of the time of the Senate than any other, but
                    as yet no tariff bill has been taken up in that body. On this subject the south is much agitated,
                    and threaten nullification and disunion, if the protective principle of the tariff, be not repealed
                    or modified.3 They attribute all the evils, real and imaginary, which they
                    either feel or fear, to its existence, and are worked up into a state of feverish excitement [.] A
                    very lengthy debate took place in the Senate, on resolutions, declaring, that the duties on such
                    articles as are not manufactured in this country, ought to be forthwith repealed; but no final vote
                    was taken upon them.
            In the House of Representatives too this subject was taken up at an early period of the Session, and
                    bills by various Committees, as well as one of the Secretary of the Treasury [Louis McLane], were
                    reported to the House.
            The protective principle of the tariff cannot be abandoned. To do this would be to consign to
                    destruction the many millions of capital already invested under the guardianship of former laws, and
                    to check for years to come, the current of prosperity, which the success of our domestic industry,
                    is even now giving to the country. The measure of protection however which is necessary for the
                    manufacturers, is that of which but few can be competent to judge. It is that on which the
                    manufacturers themselves and their most zealous advocates are by no means agreed. Early in the
                    Session the leading tariff men, were in favor of doing nothing more, than repeal the duties on
                    unprotected articles. Subsequently other grounds have been taken, and the committee on manufactures
                    of the House, have recently reported a bill, materially modifying the tariff of 1828. This subject
                    more 
                  
                     3 Southerners who opposed the protective tariff had been disgruntled
                            ever since enactment of the Tariff of 1828, which they labeled the "tariff of
                            abominations."
               
                     than any other, has protracted the present Session, and when or
                    how, it shall be finally disposed of, no one can tell.4
            
            I am one of those who believe, that the evils of which the southern States so loudly complain, cannot
                    fairly be ascribed to the tariff. It is probably true that if the workshops of 
                        England
                    , instead of our own factories, supplied as heretofore our articles protected by the
                    tariff, that a more extensive, and of course a more advantageous export trade, could be carried on
                    by the planters of the south; for then their cotton would not only furnish the raw material out of
                    which the cotton fabric is made, but would in exchange pay for a very large portion of all our
                    importations. Formerly the agricultural productions of the grain growing states being excluded from
                    the markets and exchanges of Europe, the whole trade was thrown into the hands of the south. Not so
                    in this country. The agricultural productions of the grain growing States are necessary for the
                    manufacturers, and are taken in exchange for their fabrics; hence a foreign trade is more valuable
                    to the southern States than a domestic trade, and a domestic trade is more valuable to the middle
                    and northern States than a foreign trade. But the evils of the south may be fairly traced to a very
                    different cause; her overgrown and impoverishing black population.5 By the
                    culture of the slave the value of the soil is diminished. Large districts of better lands are opened
                    in the new States. To these the enterprising are rapidly hastening. A greater proportion of whites
                    emigrate than of blacks, and the evils of a superincumbent black population are daily increasing.
            The prosperous financial condition of the country, has presented to the present Session, the
                    difficulty of reducing the revenue. At the commencement of the last war, the debt of the Revolution
                    had been reduced to $42,000,000 [.] At the close of the last war [War of 1812], the
                    national debt amounted to $158,000,000. To meet this debt, the tariff of 1816 was
                    enacted, the whole revenues of the country pledged, and a sinking fund was created in 1817 [.] From
                    ten to 
                  
                     4 The Tariff of 1832 lowered some rates but on the whole increased
                            protection. See Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xli-xlv
                            (July 14, 1832).
                  
                     5 In 1830 the population of the twelve slave states, two slave
                            territories, and the 
                                District of Columbia
                             was almost six million, of whom nearly one-third were Negro slaves. See U.S.
                            Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                , Colonial Times to 1957 (
                                Washington
                            , 1960), 12–13.
               
                     twelve millions, and sometimes more, have been annually paid,
                    ever since, in discharge of the principal and interest of the debt. The receipts into the treasury
                    for many years past, have averaged at about $24,000,000, but the last year they amounted
                    to more than 28,000,000. The debt is reduced to $24,000,000, and its payment is certain
                    within the ensuing year. After this debt shall have been paid, a revenue beyond
                    $15,000,000 per annum cannot be needed, and even this amount will allow enlarged
                    appropriations for internal improvements. In the prospects then of reducing the revenues one half,
                    every interest is putting in its claims for relief; the planters of the south, the interests of
                    commerce rnd [sic] navigation, and the landed interests of the new States.
            The subject of the Public Lands is one of increasing magnitude and perplexity. Many propositions have
                    been made, but there is now little prospect of any thing being done during the present Session, save
                    a provision authorizing the issuing of scrip for forfeited monies in cases not heretofore provided
                    for by law; a provision extending the preemption law to settlers on lands not surveyed till after
                    its expiration, and the 40 acre law as it is called which authorises to a certain extent, the sale
                    of the Public Lands in 40 acre tracts.6
            
            The reduction of the revenues of the country consequent on the final extinction of the National Debt
                    is now near at hand, and it was thought reasonable, that in this jubilee, the land interests of the
                    new States should participate. It was however a matter of equal regret and surprise, that so little
                    inclination to favor this interest should be found to exist; and at a time when it was proposed to
                    diminish the revenue $7,000,000 by repealing the duties on the luxuries of life, because
                    the revenue was no longer needed; that there should be so much aversion, to diminishing the price of
                    any portion of the public lands, no matter how long they might have been in market or how inferior
                    their quality. Almost every thing else connected with the revenue, had been referred to the
                    Committee on manufactures, and this subject was also referred to that Committee. A report was made
                    recognising the reasonableness and justice of the claims of the new States to a larger dividend than
                    the five per cent now received of the sales. 
                  
                     6 All three of these bills became law. See Register of
                                Debates, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix iv, xxxii[i], xlvii-xlviii (April 5, July 9,
                            14, 1832).
               
                     This report was accompanied by a bill, proposing to give the
                    new States ten per cent, in addition to that already given; and that the residue should be
                    distributed among all the States agreeably to federal representative population. These regulations
                    to last five years only.
            The whole subject was also referred to the committee on the public lands, from whom a report has also
                    been received, proposing to give the new States 15 per cent additional to that already received on
                    the sales; and to reduce the price of fresh lands to a minimum of one dollar per acre, and to fifty
                    cents per acre for lands which shall have been five years or upwards in market. These two
                    propositions are the principal ones now before the Senate, but it is not probable that either will
                    be finally acted on, during the present session.7
            
            A bill to recharter the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     for fifteen years, from and after the expiration of its present charter, modifying
                    materially the provisions of the old charter, has passed the Senate.8
            
            Among the difficult and perplexing questions of the present Session, may be mentioned, the
                    apportionment of representatives among the several States, under the present census. It was much to
                    be desired, that a bill should have passed on this subject, in time to have afforded the
                    Legislatures of the states an opportunity of fixing congressional districts, during their recent
                    Sessions. Accordingly, this subject was early taken up in the House of Representatives, but such has
                    been the difficulties involved, and the delays consequent in both Houses, that the bill did not
                    become a law, until very recently; and the States whose congressional elections take place within
                    the present year, will necessarily have extra Sessions on this account during the summer.
            The members first elected under the present census, will take their seats in the next Congress in
                    December; [sic] 1833. The ratio is fixed at 47,700, and the state of Indiana is
                    entitled to seven members in the House of Representatives. The census of 1790 was the first census
                    under the constitution, and the number of Representatives, originally 65, was increased to 105; for
                    the second census, the number was increased to 141; for the third to 181; for the fourth to 213;
                        
                  
                     7 None of these changes was made at this time.
                  
                     8 The bill rechartering the Second Bank of the 
                                United States
                             passed both houses of Congress but was vetoed by President Jackson. See James
                            D. Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the
                            President (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), II, 576–91.
               
                     and for the fifth, the House of Representatives will be
                    organized with 240. That body has increased from 65 to 240 members, while the ratio has been raised
                    from 30,000 to 47,600 [47,700]. The census of 1790 gave [the 
                        United States
                    ] a population of 3,921,327. A census has been taken every ten years since, and resulted
                    as follows: in 1800, 5,319,762; in 1810, 7,239,902; in 1820, 9,637,999; and in 1830, the census
                    shewed a population of 12,716,602 souls—of these 1,982,822 are slaves. The increase of
                    our population in the last ten years almost equals the whole amount in 1790.
            Another law, and perhaps a final one, has passed during the present Session for the relief of the
                    surviving officers and soldiers of the Revolution. It is comprehensive and liberal, and will it is
                    believed, embrace all, who have borne any considerable part, in the sufferings and the triumphs of
                    that eventful war. It embraces those who served in the continental line, state troops, volunteers,
                    or militia, and gives full pay for life, according to rank, not exceeding in any case the pay of a
                    captain in the line, to all who have served, at one or more terms, a period of two years; to
                    commence the 4th day of March, 1831. And to those who have served less than two years, but over six
                    months, a sum proportioned to the term they may have so served.
            The appropriations for the Cumberland road have long since passed the Senate [.] They were reported
                    to the House in a separate bill, which proposed $110,000 to be expended in 
                        Ohio
                    , $100,000 to be expended in Indiana, and $70,000 in 
                        Illinois
                    . They have in the House of Representatives, been modified and incorporated with many
                    other subjects of internal improvements, such as harbors, rivers and other roads. This is their
                    present condition, and there can be no doubt of these appropriations becoming a law, having already
                    passed both Houses, unless the whole bill in which they now are, shall be defeated.9
            
            A law has passed, establishing additional post routes in the 
                        United States
                    . A considerable number of these have been established in Indiana, affording additional
                    means of transporting the mails, especially in the newly settled portions of the State, heretofore
                    not well supplied. This bill has been before Congress the two previous Sessions, but heretofore
                    postponed, on account of the great weight, and consequent 
                  
                     9 This bill became law. See Register of Debates, 22
                            Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xx-xxi (July 3, 1832).
               
                     embarrassment it would impose on the Department. The old States
                    have needed less the provisions of this bill, than the states west of the mountains, and of course
                    those who needed it most was most careful not to embarrass the bill with any thing which threatened
                    its defeat. Accordingly the members from the western States, generally voted against the proposition
                    to exclude newspapers from postage, because it was believed by them, that the Department could not
                    sustain this burden, and that with it, the bill could not become a law.
            At an early period of the Session, bills passed the Senate for an additional land office in the state
                    of Indiana, and appropriating money to defray the expenses of a treaty with the Indians in our
                    State; but neither of these bills have yet received the final action of the House.10
            
            Our Indian affairs in the south, are almost entirely at rest. During the present Session a treaty has
                    been negotiated at this place with the Creeks, who will soon be west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and little doubt is entertained of a treaty with the Cherokees in the course of the
                    present year. When this shall be done, the Indians will be out of the southern States, and the
                    miserable remnant of the Seminoles who reside in 
                        Florida
                    , have also evinced an anxiety to remove, and have made a treaty to that dffect[sic]. Treaties have also been ratified the present Session, with four bands in the
                    State of 
                        Ohio
                    .11
            
            The question about the Supreme Court and the imprisoned missionaries, is one between the General
                    Government and the state of 
                        Georgia
                    , and the Indians have only been, as any thing else might have been, the proximate cause
                    of the difficulty. In this case however, there is little to be feared for the Union. The decision of
                    the Supreme Court has been certified to the Court in 
                        Georgia
                    . It is declaratory of the law in the case, and mandatory to the Court of the State.
                    When the Supreme Court shall convene again in January next, it will be for that tribunal, on the
                    return of this process, to determine, whether it will issue any other process to the court of 
                        Georgia
                    , and if so, what that process shall be.12
            
            
               
                  10 The land office bill did not become law, but there was an appropriation
                        for extinguishing Indian title to additional lands in Indiana. See Register of
                            Debates, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxxii (July 9, 1832).
               
                  11 Hendricks was unjustifiably optimistic about the early departure of the
                        Indians from the area east of the 
                            Mississippi
                        .
               
                  12 The 
                            Georgia
                         legislature had extended state laws over the Cherokee and legalized encroachment on
                        Indian lands. When 
                            New England
                         missionaries to the Cherokee refused to leave the area, they were sentenced
            
            
            Appropriations have been made, for the payment of such corps of militia, as have been called into
                    service, during the recent troubles of the northwest, and an appropriation has also been made for
                    the relief of such friendly Indians as may seek shelter and protection in the various agencies on
                    the frontier.13
            
            A law has also passed, authorizing the raising of 600 mounted rangers for the protection and
                    tranquility of the exposed settlements. These will be organized as were the rangers of the last war.
                    They will be formed into six companies of 100 men each, two of which companies are to be raised in
                    Indiana.
            Other means efficient and ample will soon be employed for the chastisement of the hostile bands of
                    the Upper Mississippi. They will be driven west of that river and remote from the present scene of
                    their cruelties. General [Winfield] Scott has been ordered to the seat of war, 
                        Chicago
                     will be strongly garrisoned, and detachments of the army from the various military
                    posts on the seaboard, and the Lakes will shortly be concentrated on the northwestern frontier. All
                    cause of alarm in the out settlements, and especially those of our own State will wholly cease.
            The Session will probably close about the first of next month.
            With much respect,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 22nd Congress, 2nd Session (1832–1833)14
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, MARCH 2, 1833.
            The present Session has been one remarkable for the magnitude of the questions entertained by it. The
                    tariff, the bill having reference to 
                        South Carolina
                     affairs, and the bill 
                  to imprisonment at hard labor. The 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court reversed their conviction, but 
                                Georgia
                             ignored the decision, and President Jackson declined to enforce it. See Albert
                            J. Beveridge, The Life of John Marshall (4 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1944), IV, 547–51.
                  
                     13 This is a reference to the Black Hawk War, which broke out in
                            northwestern 
                                Illinois
                             in the spring of 1832. See William T. Hagan, The Sac and Fox
                                Indians (
                                Norman
                            , 1958), 141–97.
                  
                     14 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, March 21, 1833 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 3, 1832, and adjourned March 2,
                        1833.
               
                     on the subject of the Public Lands, have been the absorbing
                    topics, and on these subjects bills have passed both Houses.
            An attempt was made at the last Session of Congress to adjust and finally settle the tariff. A law
                    then passed materially modifying it, and reducing the revenue much below the receipts under the law
                    of 1828.15 This bill passed in the hope, that it would tranquilize the stormy
                    elements of the Southern States and allay the dangerous excitement existing in that section if it
                    did not give entire satisfaction as a final adjustment of the question. Such indeed was the opinion
                    expressed by Southern Members, a large majority of whom voted for the bill. Vain however has been
                    the expectation; for the short interval between the last and present Session, has been actively
                    employed, in sowing the seeds of disunion, and in producing the present distracted state of our
                    common country. The present Session had scarcely commenced, when the ant [i]-tariff, party commenced
                    a series of operations, which at an early period of it, produced a bill in the House of
                    Representatives, on which that portion of the national Legislature, have been chiefly employed ever
                    since. The secretary of the Treasury had said in his annual report, that the revenue would admit,
                    after the present year, of a further reduction of 6000,000; And this was the hinge on which has been
                    hung all the anti-tariff movements of the Session [.] But this was a mere estimate, which might, or
                    might not be correct; for the tariff of July 1832, has not yet gone into operation, and no one can
                    tell with certainty what its effects upon the revenue will be. Nor was it proposed to pass any bill
                    to go into operation before the next Session of Congress. Yet so much has this subject been
                    disturbed, under all these circumstances, that it has literally occupied the House of
                    Representatives all winter, to the exclusion of almost every thing else. This has become the great
                    exciting interest of the country, and to it, aspiring and ambitious politicians look for elevation.
                    One of its greatest evils is, the combinations it produces, and that it is viewed as the political
                    ladder, to the Presidency of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The history of this matter would be too long for a letter. It may be traced back to the embargo times
                    of 1807, and up to the declaration of the late war with Great Britain. Then 
                  
                     15 See footnote 4 above.
               
                     the people of the Northern States were seafaring men, ship
                    builders and mariners, and the people of the South were planters, and to a limited extent
                    manufacturers. The embargoes had crippled and rendered precarious the shipping interests of 
                        New England
                    , and they were driven to the course of policy dictated by the South; a policy which
                    kept them more on land, and less on water, and which shaped and imposed the tariff system upon the
                    people of the 
                        United States
                    . Ships, commerce and free trade were not then so much the language of the South, as
                    independence of 
                        England
                     and manufactures at home.—The Northern and Middle States fell of necessity
                    into these pursuits, and now millions, and perhaps hundreds of millions, are invested in
                    manufacturing establishments, and endangered by a spirit of determined hostility against the tariff.
                    The tariff will no doubt be further modified and reduced; for the public debt being paid, ten or
                    twelve millions a year, of the revenue necessary heretofore can be dispensed with; but that which
                    will still be necessary ought to be levied, with a view to the protection of our valuable
                    manufactures. The protective principle cannot be yielded, without yielding much of the prosperity
                    and independence of the country.
            The extraordinary proceedings of 
                        South Carolina
                    , has more than any thing else, disturbed and embar[r]assed the present Session; and
                    agitated the public mind throughout the 
                        United States
                    . To these may be traced the solicitude about the tariff, & the passage of a
                    bill through both Houses, which is not to take effect till the first of January, next, while a law
                    of last Session exists on the same subject, which has not yet gone into operation.16
            
            The people of 
                        South Carolina
                     had met in Convention, and declared the revenue laws of the 
                        United States
                    , null and void: declared void the revenue bonds and prohibited an appeal to the Supreme
                    Court of the 
                        United States
                    . Her ordinance requires all officers, civil and military, to take an oath to enforce
                    its provisions, and obey the laws of the state in aid of it; requiring jurors also to be sworn to
                    the same effect.—It 
                  
                     16 The Tariff of 1833 was a compromise that provided for gradual
                            reduction until July 1, 1842, by which time no rate would exceed twenty percent. See Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 10–11 (March
                            2, 1833). This appendix has double pagination. Page numbers refer to the second set of
                            pages. For a recent analysis of this crisis see William W. Freehling, Prelude
                                to Civil War: The Nullification Controversy in 
                                    South Carolina
                                , 1816–1836 (
                                New York
                            , 1966).
               
                     declares that all legislation on the part of Congress,
                    authorizing the employment of force against that state or its citizens, will cause her to secede,
                    and break off forever, her political connexion with the Union. The legislature had enacted, that if
                    any officer of the 
                        United States
                    , civil or military should attempt to enforce the laws of the 
                        United States
                    , or resist the ordinance and Legislative acts of 
                        South Carolina
                    , the Governor should be authorized, to call out such portion of her militia, as might
                    be requisite to meet the emergency. In short, 
                        South Carolina
                     was, and is, more like a military camp, than a peaceful state of the Union. Under these
                    circumstances, the President in his Message of the 16th of January, informed Congress, that an
                    emergency had arisen in the state of 
                        South Carolina
                    , which rendered the execution of the laws of the 
                        United States
                    , in that state, impracticable, and recommended such measures, as, in his opinion, were
                    necessary to meet the case. This resulted in "A bill further to provide for the collection
                    of duties on imports" which passed both Houses with great unanimity, and has become a law.
                    This bill is what its title purports it to be, and has for its object, the due execution of the laws
                    of the 
                        United States
                     and the prevention of conflict with the constituted authorities or the citizens of the
                    state. For this purpose, the President of the 
                        United States
                     is authorized to remove the custom houses, to secure places within the harbors, either
                    upon land or on board a vessel, and the custom house at 
                        Charleston
                    , has some time since, under a previously existing authority, been removed to Castle
                    Pinckney.
            A crisis had indeed arisen, and it would have been delicacy inconsistent with duty, to stand still,
                    and see the revenue officers of the General Government, fall victims to the military power of 
                        South Carolina
                    , already organized for that purpose. That state must abandon her position, or there
                    must be consequences the most unpleasant. Her demand that the obnoxious revenue, [sic] laws of the 
                        United States
                     shall be repealed, and the protective principle abolished, can never be complied with.
                    Nor can she be recognised as the sole judge, of all the cases of difficulty, she may think proper to
                    make with the 
                        United States
                    . Her doctrine too that a majority in this government cannot be permitted to rule, is
                    perhaps more inadmissible than any other. It is, in itself, anti-republican, and at war with the
                    doctrines of all former periods of our  history, and yet strange
                    as it may appear, this doctrine is openly and boldly avowed, by the leaders of this new school.
            Notwithstanding these things, it is by no means probable that 
                        South Carolina
                     will resist the execution of the 
                        United States
                    ' laws unto blood. A consciousness of being in the wrong, will make the
                    lion-hearted pause, even on the field of battle. And this is believed to be the feeling of the
                    leaders of 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            Already indeed have indications of a wish to retreat from her extraordinary position been shown, and
                    the tariff bill recently passed, can be viewed in no other light, than as affording her an
                    opportunity of withdrawing from her untenable ground. Her convention is soon to be assembled a
                    second time, when her ordinance will probably be modified or repealed, and a returning sense of
                    moderation, promises to the friends of Union and good order, an ascendency in the state.17
            
            The Public Lands, seem to be a never-ending source of trouble. For the last ten years, propositions
                    have been made and renewed every Session, to reduce their price, and especially in the old
                    Districts, where they have been long in market and remain unsold. Propositions too, to graduate the
                    price according to quality, and to give advantages to actual settlers, have as often been made, and
                    as often rejected. On this subject a preponderating power of the old States is against us, and the
                    policy of giving to the new States a larger percentage upon the sales, and of dividing the residue
                    of their proceeds among the several States, is the only thing practicable, either at present, or in
                    prospect. Accordingly the bill which passed the Senate last year, has again passed both Houses. It
                    gives to the new States twelve and an half per cent, upon the money received in each, in addition to
                    the five per cent heretofore received, and divides the residue among all the States, old and new,
                    agreeably to their Representative population; the whole to be applied by the Legislatures of the
                    States, to such objects as they may think proper. The quantity of 500,000 acres of land for internal
                    improvements, is also granted to such of the new S[t]ates, as have not heretofore received grants
                    for such purposes, and to such as have received in such grants, a lesser quantity, that deficiency
                    is made up. The bill expires by its own limitation in 
                  
                     17 See the introduction, pp. 326–27.
               
                     five years, when the old System of paying the money into the
                    Treasury will revive, unless other provisions be created by law. The distribution plan to be
                    commenced from and after the 21st December last.—In estimating this bill it ought to be
                    borne in mind, that in contending for that which we prefer, but have no prospect of getting, we are
                    losing every year large sums, which this bill would give us, and it is not an unreasonable
                    calculation, that this bill, will in five years, be worth to the State of Indiana, a million of
                        dollars.18
            
            Another preemption law has passed in favor of those who were prevented from making their entries, in
                    consequence of the public surveys not having been made and returned, or where the land was not
                    attached to any land district, or where the same has been reserved from sale in consequence of a
                    disputed boundary between two States, or between a State and Terri[t]ory; permitting all such, to
                    enter their lands within one year, after the surveys are made, or the lands attached to a land
                    district.
            A land office has been established for the sale of the lands recently purchased from the Indians.19
            
            No law has passed during the present Session, establishing post roads, and of course the numerous
                    applications on that subject must be deferred till the next Session.
            The treaties recently made with the Pottawattie Indians in Indiana, have been ratified, and
                    appropriations to carry them into effect, have also been made.
            Other appropriations for the continuation of the Cumberland road have been made, and of these
                    $100,000 is to be applied within the limits of Indiana. Appropriations for the thorough
                    repair of that road east of 
                        Ohio
                     have also been made, and the road east of the river has been delivered up to the States
                    of 
                  Maryland, Pennsylvania
                and 
                        Virginia
                     through which it passes for preservation and future repairs. Toll sufficient for that
                    purpose only will be collected. So much of this road as is completed in the state of 
                        Ohio
                     has in like manner been yielded to that State.
            
               
                  18 This bill was vetoed by President Jackson. See Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, III, 56–69.
               
                  19 This office was established at 
                            La Porte
                        , Indiana. See Register of Debates, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix
                        21–22 (March 2, 1833). Page numbers refer to second set of pages. See footnote 16
                        above.
            
            
            The 
                        Georgia
                     question with the im-imprisonment [sic] of the Missionaries is
                    finally settled.20 The Missionaries have dismissed their suit in the Supreme
                    Court of the 
                        United States
                     and been set at liberty. They were offered pardons after their conviction, and before
                    they were imprisoned, on condition that they would not again violate the laws of that state. This
                    course was originally accepted by all in like case offending save the two, [Samuel A.] 
                        Worcester
                     and [Elizur] 
                        Butler
                    , who rejected it, went to prison, & appealed to the Supreme Court. The law of 
                        Georgia
                    , under which they were imprisoned has since been repealed, they have dismissed their
                    suit, and have been released from prison by the Governor of 
                        Georgia
                    .—Thus has terminated this unpleasant affair; begun in rashness, continued in
                    obstinacy, but ended in peace, and having produced no other effect than an unnecessary degree of
                    excitement, which the times recently passed by were well calculated to foment and increase.
            Our relations with other governments are peaceful, and the State of Europe which for the last years
                    has been threatening a general war on that continent, is more tranquil than heretofore. 
                        Poland
                     incapable of further resistance, has settled down under the domination of Russia.21 The affairs of 
                        Belgium
                     and Holland since the capitulation of Antwerp are pretty much at rest, and hostilities
                    have ceased.22 The squadrons of our Navy are still stationed and employed in the
                    Mediterranean, the West Indies and the Pacific. Our flag is respected abroad, our prosperity is
                    unexampled at home, and while we continue to cherish and love our own government, our republication
                        [sic] free institutions, and the union of the States, we are destined to a
                    rank, highly elevated among the nations of the earth, and to become more and more conspicuous, as an
                    example, favorable to the best interests of mankind, and the liberties of the world. 
            With much respect,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            
               
                  20 See footnote 12 above.
               
                  21 The Polish nation, reestablished following the Napoleonic Wars, was a
                        Russian puppet state. The Poles had revolted in 1830, but, crushed by the Russian army the next
                        year, they were deprived of nearly all of their autonomy.
               
                  22 Following the Napoleonic Wars the Congress of 
                            Vienna
                         had united 
                            Belgium
                         and Holland to form the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Though 
                            Belgium
                         had revolted in 1830 and been recognized by the great powers, hostilities dragged
                        on because the Dutch refused to evacuate Antwerp.
            
            
            Circular Relating to the 23rd Congress, 1st Session (1833–1834)23
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, JUNE 28, 1834.
            SIR:—The history of the present Session may be given in a few words. It
                    has been little else than a scene of political warfare and strife. Less Legislative business has
                    been done than at any previous Session. The great exciting question has been the Bank and the
                        deposites.24 On this single subject, by far the greater portion of the
                    Session has been employed. It would be useless to enter into details of this matter. They would be
                    endless. Every one must, in a greater or less degree, be familiar with the subject: one, which is
                    believed to have agitated Congress, and the country more, than almost any other since the days of
                    the revolution. The questions of the Tariff and Nullification, heretofore engrossing almost entirely
                    public attention, have scarcely been spoken of, and that of the Public Lands has been wholly crowded
                    out of view by it. The Land bill is among the unfinished business of the Session.
            The fiscal affairs of the country were, agreeably to the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
                    [Roger B. Taney] in December last, in a prosperous condition. The amount of public debt remaining
                    unpaid, was, on the 1st of January last, less than $5,000,000. This is the remnant of the
                    old debt of the revolution, and the debt created by the late war with 
                        England
                    . Our chief source of revenue is the tariff, or in other words, duties collected by the
                    custom houses on imported goods: and in modifying the tariff to the diminished wants of the country,
                    the difficulty has been to know where to stop. The business of reduction has been an agreeable
                    employment, and Congress has already gone too far in reducing the tariff, in passing a second law
                    before a former one 
                  
                     23 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Republican and Banner, July 24, 1834 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 2, 1833, and adjourned June 30, 1834.
                  
                     24 President Jackson had vetoed a new charter for the Second Bank of
                            the 
                                United States
                             in 1832. During the remaining four years of the old charter Jackson, despite
                            vigorous objections from the Senate, gradually removed federal deposits from the bank and
                            placed the funds in selected state banks. In retaliation Nicholas Biddle, president of the
                            bank, allegedly manipulated the monetary system in an effort to force the government to come
                            to terms with him. See Remini, Andrew Jackson and the Bank War,
                            109–75.
               
                     had gone into operation, and at a time when the effects of
                    neither could be foreseen. This was the case last session, when a second tariff-reducing law was
                    enacted, before the law of a previous Session had gone into operation,25 until
                    it has become doubtful whether Congress will not be under the necessity of imposing additional
                    tariff duties, in lieu of those recently taken off. These reductions were made to the manifest
                    jeopardy of the manufacturers, and the manufacturing interests, have ever since, been in a depressed
                    and sickly condition. Many establishments have already ceased their operations, and their
                    proprietors will no doubt direct their capital into other channels, no longer willing to hazard
                    every thing, in the doubtful experiment, whether the manufacturing interests can live under the
                    tariff reducing law of 1833.
            The reduction of the revenue, and the possible necessity for its increase, has very much injured the
                    prospect of internal improvements. The manufacturers, while protected by a sustaining tariff, were
                    the close allies of internal improvements; for the tariff, while it protected their interests,
                    furnished the means of making roads and canals, which were also necessary to that interest, in the
                    transportation of their fabrics throughout the whole country.
            The effects of these causes have already been felt, and deeply felt, in the difficulties experienced
                    in obtaining an appropriation for the Cumberland Road. Those interested in this road, must have
                    observed difficulties, and the road will feel them in the fact, that midsummer must pass by, before
                    the work of the present year can commence, owing to the late period of the Session at which the
                    appropriation was made. It will feel them too, in the increased difficulty of future appropriations.
                    The amounts this year appropriated to the progress of the work, are $200,000 to be
                    expended in the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , $150,000 in Indiana, and $100,000 in 
                        Illinois
                    . Appropriations have also passed the House of Representatives for the improvement of
                    the navigation of the 
                  Mississippi, Ohio, Missouri
                and Red Rivers.26
            
            A bill has passed the Senate, authorizing the selection of 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal lands, in the valley of the Maumee 
                  
                     25 See footnotes 4 and 16 above.
                  
                     26 An appropriation of $50,000 was made for improvement of
                            the 
                        Mississippi, Ohio
                     , and Missouri rivers; an
                            additional $50,000 was provided for the Red River. See Register of Debates, 23 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 332–33 (June
                            28, 1834).
               
                     River, in lieu of lands sold by the 
                        United States
                    , which would otherwise have become the property of the canal, in virtue of the original
                    grant of March 2d, 1827.—This bill authorizes the selection of about 80,000 acres for the
                    use of the canal.27
            
            A bill has also passed the Senate making an appropriation of $20,000, to improve the
                    navigation of the Wabash River.28
            
            The subject of Public Lands is one of increasing importance. The large sums those lands are now
                    bringing into the Treasury, make them more than heretofore, a bone of contention. Those who would
                    destroy the tariff, and grasp at every other source of revenue, are more zealous than ever, to
                    retain their proceeds for the ordinary disbursements of Government. The old tariff States, wish the
                    Federal Government to be sustained by the duties on imported goods, and the proceeds of the Public
                    Lands distributed among all the States. Both these classes of politicians are opposed to any change
                    of the Land system; opposed to reduction of price, to graduation, and to all advantages to actual
                    settlers. The Representatives of the new States are not entirely agreed in this matter, nor have
                    they power to control it if they were. With few exceptions we all go for the graduating principle,
                    while some would carry that principle farther than others. We all go for reduction of the price, and
                    for privileges and favors to actual settlers. In the details of these principles we might not all
                    agree, but we have never yet been able to induce Congress to go with him who demanded least, and who
                    would be willing to stop first. We all think too "That in convenient time, this machinery
                    of Land Offices, &c. should be withdrawn from the states, and that the right of soil, and
                    the future disposition of it, should be surrendered to the States respectively."29—These principles embrace, it is believed, the whole land system of
                    the President, as set forth in his various measures. Most of these principles I greatly 
                  
                     27 This bill, which became law, also provided that alternate sections,
                            granted along the portion of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal that lay in 
                                Ohio
                            , would be given to that state. See Register of Debates, 23
                            Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 338–39 (June 30, 1834).
                  
                     28 This bill received a pocket veto from President Jackson. See
                            Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, III, 118–23.
                  
                     29 Since 1827 Hendricks had been demanding the cession of all public
                            lands to the states in which they were located. See Register of Debates,
                            19 Cong., 2 Sess., 49–50 (January 9, 1827); Hill, "William
                            Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: First Senatorial Term,
                            1825–1831," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXI (June,
                            1975), 148–49, 153–56, 160, 165–66.
               
                     prefer to the Land bill of Mr. Clay, but when no hope of
                    succeeding in any of them remained, I did on former occasions, as I probably would again, vote for
                    that bill.30 In doing so I have never preferred it to other propositions on the
                    subject of the Public Lands, but in doing so, I have preferred it to the system as it is, and as it
                    has been with slight alterations almost thirty years. By the present system, the monies paid into
                    the Land Offices, go into the Treasury of the U. States. By the bill all will be paid over to the
                    States; giving also the new States a preference over the old States, in this distribution of 17 1/2
                    p. ct. of the receipts into their own Land Offices, being 12 1/2 p. ct. in addition to that they
                    already receive.31 Now if we do not adopt some such regulation as this, the Land
                    system remains as it is, and we get no part of the money. I say remains as it is, for every effort
                    to change it for many years past, has been unavailing.—But if we pass the bill the system
                    in other respects, remains as it is, and the States get the money.
            The bill appropriates for five years, from and after the 31st December, 1832. The nett proceeds of
                    the Sales of the Public Lands. One year of the term had expired on the 31st of December, 1833. The
                    amount received that year is known, and the dividend of each State is a matter of easy calculation.
                    The nett proceeds is about four per cent, less than the aggregate receipts. The aggregate receipts
                    for the year 1833, are $4,939,519 53, of which sum $694,319 81 was received in
                    the State of Indiana. 17 1/2 per cent, of the nett proceeds of this latter sum is
                    $116,645 70; the amount, to which Indiana would be entitled, as a primary
                    dividend.—Deduct 17 1/2 per cent, from the nett proceeds of the aggregate receipts, and
                    $3,912,099 49 is left to be divided among the 24 States of the Union, according to their
                    respective federal representative population, of which sum, Indiana would be entitled to
                    $114,102 - 90[.] These two sums amount to $230,748 60, the amount to which the
                    State would be entitled of the monies, which 
                  
                     30 Henry Clay's distribution bill, passed at the previous
                            session of Congress, had been vetoed. See the introduction, p. 323.
                  
                     31 New states, created from the public domain, already benefited from
                            five percent of the net proceeds from land sales within their respective boundaries.
                            Congress had promised to spend two-fifths of such proceeds to build a road or roads to such
                            states; three-fifths of the net proceeds were appropriated by Congress to the respective
                            states to be spent under the direction of their legislatures for building roads and canals
                            within their borders.
               
                     have actually been received during the last year. Now on the
                    supposition that the present year, and the three subsequent years, will be as productive as the past
                    year; and the probability is that they will be more so, the dividend to which Indiana would be
                    entitled, under the five years existence of the Bill, would be $1,153,743.
            In addition to this, the Bill also gives to the State of Indiana, 115,272 acres of land, which at the
                    minimum price would be worth $144,090 00; making the whole amount, to which the State
                    would be entitled by the Bill, agreeably to the last years receipts, the sum of
                    $1,297,833 00. I make no error in estimating the nett proceeds; having the office
                    calculations before me; and the Bill now before the Senate, whatever may have been the provisions of
                    previous Bills, authorizes a dividend of the nett proceeds. I have been thus particular in stating
                    the provisions of this Land Bill, and the advantages offered by it to the State, whose interests are
                    entrusted in part to my care, knowing that a difference of opinion exists among the most honest, and
                    intelligent of our citizens, in relation to it, and believing that the subject is not generally well
                    understood. It is my firm belief, that whoever lives to the 31st December, 1837, should this Bill
                    not become a law, will see the Land System as it now is, and the monies paid into the Treasury of
                    the Union, instead of the Treasuries of the 24 States. The 31st of December, 1837, is the period
                    when the Bill would expire by its own limitations.
            The fear that the passage of this Bill would diminish the prospect of reducing the price, is not well
                    founded. The Bill itself expressly excludes such conclusion. The Bill however, is left among the
                    unfinished business of the Session.
            Another preemption law has passed, providing, "that every Settler or occupant of Public
                    Lands, prior to the passage of this Act, who is now in possession, and cultivated any part thereof,
                    in the year 1833, shall be entitled to all the benefits and privileges provided by the Act of May
                    29, 1830,"—which Act is revised, and continued in force two years.32
            
            Bills have been presented, and pressed upon the attention of the Senate, authorizing the Territories
                    of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                    , to form for themselves Constitutions and State Governments, and for the formation of
                    the Territory of 
                  
                     32
                            Register of Debates, 23 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 321 (June 19,
                        1834).
               
                    
                    
                        Wisconsin
                    ; but no laws on these subjects have been passed. The population of 
                        Michigan
                     proper is stated at about $55,000 [sic], and that of 
                        Arkansas
                    , between 40 and 50,000. The Bill to attach the Territory of the 
                        United States
                    , west of the Mississippi River, and north of the State of 
                        Missouri
                    , to the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    , will probably become a law.33
            
            The Nation has been recently called, in the death of General Lafayette, to mourn the loss of another,
                    and almost the last of the distinguished Generals of the Revolution. He died at 
                        Paris
                     on the 20th of May, and was esteemed in his own country, as well as this, as a
                    disinterested patriot, and a friend of personal and political liberty. He bore a conspicuous part in
                    the American Revolution, in which he had the rank of Major General; was the friend and companion of 
                        Washington
                    , and has been, ever since, the steadfast friend of American Liberty, and the free
                    institutions of our country. He has also been the devoted and steadfast friend of rational and
                    constitutional liberty in 
                        France
                    ; alike opposed to the despotism of the Bourbons, and the more horrible anarchies of the
                    French Revolution. At the head of the National Guards, he arrested for a time, the sanguinary
                    measures, which led Louis the XVI. to the scaffold, and established the bloody ascendancy of
                    Robespierre.—He was opposed to the unlimited power, and to the Government of Napoleon,
                    and during the period of his splender aud [sic] triumph, had very much retired
                    from public life. Subsequent to this period, and since the restoration of the Bourbons, he has been
                    a prominent actor in the scenes of his own country; and in the Revolution of 1830; in the memoriable
                        [sic] three days in 
                        Paris
                    , which deposed Charles the X., and elevated the Duke of Orleans to the Throne,34 he bore a conspicuous part. He was at that eventful period, put again at the
                    head of the National Guards, though surrounded by the most distinguished Marshals of Napoleon. In
                    1825 he visited the 
                        United States
                     on invitation of the President, and at the request of Congress. He was emphatically the
                    Nations guest, and his presence brought in review, in more vivid colors, the scene of the
                    Revolution, than all our Monuments, our Trophies, and our History could have done. He was honored by
                    the American people in life. He is 
                  
                     33 This bill became law. See ibid., Appendix 332
                            (June 28, 1834).
                  
                     34 Known as King Louis-Philippe, the Duke of Orleans reigned from 1830
                            to 1848.
               
                     no less honored in death. His death has been communicated to
                    Congress, by a special Message of the President, and resolutions have been passed by both Houses, as
                    grateful testimonials of National respect. It has also been announced in General orders to the Army
                    and Navy, and appropriate tributes of respect, are to be paid to his Memory, at every Military and
                    Naval Post, and Depot in the 
                        United States
                    , and wheresoever the American Flag shall be found connected with our Navy throughout
                    the world.
            The Session will close on the 30th of the present month.
            With much respect, your Ob't. Serv't.,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 23rd Congress, 2nd Session (1834–1835)35
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, MARCH 4, 1835.
            The session having drawn to a close, I hasten, before leaving this place, to communicate, as has been
                    my practice ever since I have first been honored with a seat in Congress, to the People of the
                    State, the leading topics and features of the session. In these communications it has not been my
                    object to enforce my own opinions, either in reference to the measures of the present administration
                    of the General Government, or the Presidential election to come, but to confine myself, chiefly, to
                    the legislative proceedings of Congress, and the condition of the various interests of the country,
                    at home and abroad. It has been my object to speak of facts, rather than to give opinions, and
                    although it is impracticable to address such letter to every individual, even of my own
                    acquaintance, in the State, yet it is intended to be considered as addressed to every citizen, and
                    shall, if possible, be put and placed in every neighborhood and within the reach and view of every
                    citizen of the State.
            Confining myself however to these objects, and from them it is not my purpose to depart, this letter
                    must necessarily be less interesting than some which I have heretofore on similar occasions written,
                    because the session has been less 
                  
                     35 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Republican and Banner, April 2, 1835 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 1, 1834, and adjourned March 3,
                        1835.
               
                     fruitful of incidents than almost any previous one of which I
                    have been a member. The political excitements heretofore numerous, and producing legislative
                    discussions and enactments of so much interest, has not so much abounded, as on former occasions.
                    The session has indeed been one comparatively of undisturbed calm and tranquillity. Few subjects and
                    few occasions have occurred to produce even animated debate. Among these may be mentioned the
                    subject of Executive patronage, on which a lengthy report was made in the Senate; and the subject of
                    our relations with 
                        France
                    , which is every day becoming more and more interesting.
            The subject of Executive patronage36 was referred to a select Committee of the
                    Senate, which made a lengthy report, the object of which was to compare the number of appointments
                    reposing on Executive power at the present time, or in the year 1833, with the number thus dependant
                    at a former period; and to compare also the expenditure of recent years, with that of former ones.
                    This comparison and this view of that sensitive subject, naturally tinctured the report, and the
                    measures proposed by the Committee, strongly with the spirit of party; and by this Committee
                    measures have been introduced, which in former years, have been repudiated and opposed by the party
                    which now sustain them. Such were the bills which passed the Senate, but which did not receive the
                    sanction of the House, on the subject of appointments to office, and of regulating the deposites of
                    the public moneys.37
            
            Another measure proposed by this Committee was, an amendment of the Constitution, for a limited
                    period, to operate till January 1843, so as to permit a distribution of the surplus revenue, which
                    before that time is expected to accumulate in the Treasury. This surplus revenue is expected to
                    accrue on account of the final extinguishment of the national debt, and will be made up of that
                    annual surplus, over and above the current expenditures, which has her[e]tofore been applied to the
                    payment of the debt. This surplus, to a considerable extent, say nine millions a year, it is
                    believed by 
                  
                     36 Rotation in office, called the "spoils system" by
                            the party not in the White House, had been elevated to a democratic political principle by
                            the Jacksonians. At best it prevented a party from remaining entrenched in the executive
                            department after losing a presidential election; at worst it was a device for rewarding
                            faithful supporters of the successful presidential candidate.
                  
                     37 See footnote 24 above.
               
                     the Committee, will be accumulating till the expiration of the
                    tariff compromise bill of 1833, which will not expire till the year 1843, and those who deny the
                    constitutional power of distributing the surplus revenue among the States, require this amendment of
                    the Constitution for that purpose. The measure, however, has very little prospect of success, for
                    those who assert the existing power under the Constitution as it is, and those who would not thus
                    tamper with that sacred instrument for any such temporary purpose, will not be
                    found voting for such amendment; and these it is believed make a large majority of both houses.
            There are, however, in this report, some curious and startling facts. The number of those dependant
                    in a greater or less degree on the Treasury of the 
                        United States
                    , are stated to exceed one hundred thousand; almost double the number so dependent ten
                    years ago. And the current expenditures of the Government are stated to have been in 1833 much
                    greater than the current expenditures in 1825. This report, and the measures by way of remedy
                    proposed, have produced animated discussions, but do not promise to be productive of any practical
                    result. The subject will probably be exhausted in ministering food to party appetite. Should the
                    revenue in coming years be found greatly to exceed the wants of the Government, the tariff will, or
                    ought to be, so modified as to protect the manufactures of the country, and let articles not
                    manufactured in the country come in duty free; thus diminishing to the amount necessary for the
                    current expenditures. But in this regulation it is to be hoped that some permanent beneficial
                    arrangement will be made for the internal improvement of the country, in its roads, rivers, and
                    canals. And it is reasonable too to hope, though there does not appear much foundation for such
                    hope, that under such circumstances, when we have more revenue than we know what to do with, and
                    when the difficulty is not, how we shall raise revenue, but how we shall diminish it, we shall
                    obtain for the new States some favorable regulation on the subject of the lands.
            To an unbiassed reader of the Constitution, one unlearned in the various constructions of that
                    instrument, it would certainly appear strange, that, with an overflowing Treasury, and one difficult
                    to diminish there should be hesitation, or difficulty, with any class of politicians, on the subject
                    of internal  improvements, which all admit the value of, and
                    which the States, however destitute of means, are prosecuting with energy and zeal.
            For the same reason, the superabundance of our revenue, it would seem at first view strange, that so
                    much disinclination should be felt, by the Representatives of the old States, to the wishes of the
                    new States, on the subject of the public lands. But this can be accounted for, by the consideration,
                    that the reduction of the price in the new States, diminishes the value of land in the old States,
                    and that every inducement to actual settlers in the new States, draws proportionally the population,
                    and diminishes the prosperity of the old States; and there appears to be as little prospect of
                    reduction of price, as any other measure proposed in relation to the public lands. The graduating
                    principle, though unquestionably reasonable and just, and especially so in districts which have been
                    long in market, is considered but the proposition in another form, to reduce the price, and has no
                    prospect of success. The bill proposing a distribution of the proceeds of the public lands for five
                    years from and after the 31st of December, 1832, has not been acted on by either house during the
                    session. The proceeds of the public lands during the last year are much greater than ever before.
            Our relations with 
                        France
                     is a vexed and dangerous subject. The history of this matter is perhaps generally
                    understood.—It is however, short, and may be stated in a few words. By treaty with that
                    Government, on the 4th of July, 1831, 
                        France
                     became bound to pay to this Government, for the benefit of citizens of the U. States,
                    25,000,000, of f[r]ancs, or $5,000,000, on account of spoliations on American commerce
                        [.]38 This sum, the Legislative Dapartment [sic] of that
                    Government has thus far refused to appropriate and pay. In consequence of this, the President of the 
                        United States
                    , in his last annual message, alluded to the subject in strong terms of reprobation, and
                    recommending the passage of law, authorizing reprisals upon the commerce of 
                        France
                    , in the event of the Chamber of Deputies adjourning their present session, without
                    appropriating money to pay this debt. The message of the President having arrived at 
                        Paris
                     before the Legislative body had determined the question of payment, a great sensation
                    seems to have been produced by it. The 
                  
                     38 These damages had occurred during the Napoleonic Wars.
               
                     French Minister has been recalled from this country, and pass
                    ports have been tendered to our Minister, Mr. [Edward] Livingston. Thus stands the case by our last
                    advices from Europe; and if the French Chambers persevere in their refusal to camply [sic] with the sol[e]mn obligations of treaty, war will in all probability grow out of the
                    case. The Senate, as early as January, unanimously determined not to legislate on the subject at the
                    present session, and the House of Representatives at a late period, have come to a similar
                    conclus[i]on. Both nations are strongly interested in the preservation of peace. A large and
                    prosperous commerce exists between them, which would be interrupted, and, for a while destroyed, by
                    a state of war. The amount in controversy, would be as dust in the ballance, compared with the
                    expenses of a war to either nation. Both Governments are powerful on the ocean; 
                        France
                     much the largest fleet, but the 
                        United States
                     the most naval efficiency and power. Nothing but the strong appetite of the French
                    people for war, and their injustice towards us on the present occasion, can lead to that
                    catastrophe. We have a large squadron in the Mediterranean, which might be endangered by a sudden
                    determination on hostilities on their part. It would be exposed to the power of their whole naval
                    force.
            A war with 
                        France
                     would be a war upon the ocean, and there exclusively, and the navy alone could
                    participate in it. In such a war the ardor and chivalry of the army, and the youth of our country,
                    could not be gratified, and there is less danger of appetite for war in our own country, than if the
                    conflict were to be carried on both by land and sea. It would especially do us in the interior much
                    evil, and could not do us any good; would destroy to a great extent the coasting trade, and impose
                    upon us the additional cost of transporting much of our produce to the eastern Atlantic cities over
                    the mountains or by way of the lakes, instead of a water communication by 
                        New Orleans
                     and around the coast.
            A few general subjects which occupied the session to a late hour, crowded out much business which had
                    matured, and which would have required but a short portion of time; and in this way more unfinished
                    business than usual has been left on the files of the session. Of this may be named the bill
                    organizing the post Office Department; the bill reorganizing the Circuit Courts of the 
                        United States
                    , which reduced the  number of Circuits in the old
                    States from seven to six, and formed two new Circuits in the valley of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , one to consist of the States of 
                  Louisiana, Mississippi
                and 
                        Alabama
                    , and the other to consist of the States of 
                  Missouri, Illinois
                and
                        Indiana;39 the bill to regulate the deposites of the public money in the
                    State banks; the 
                        Wabash
                     improvement bill;40 the bill authorizing several rail road
                    companies in the State of Indiana, to locate their roads through the public lands, granting fifty
                    feet on each side of said roads, in addition to the width thereof, with the privilege of taking
                    timber and other materials necessary in the construction of their works, off the public lands; and
                    the fixing the northern bound[a]ries of the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    .41
            
            These bills having passed the Senate, could not be reached in the House, chiefly owing to the last
                    days of the session having been spent in deliberating upon the subject of our ralations [sic] with 
                        France
                    . Other bills important to the State of Indiana, were not reached upon the orders, or
                    acted on by either house. Among these may be mentioned the bill to establish post roads, and the
                    appropriation for a harbor at the mouth of Trail Creek [at 
                        Michigan City
                    ]. In this latter case a survey had been ordered and executed, but the 
                  
                     39 The federal judiciary had not been restructured to provide circuit
                            courts for all of the new states. In 
                        Illinois, Missouri
                     ,
                            Indiana, 
                        Alabama, Mississippi
                     , and 
                                Louisiana
                             the decision of the federal district judge was final in most cases. Five times
                            President Jackson recommended reorganization of the judiciary to provide circuit courts for
                            the six western states. In 1832 he had suggested that if district courts were adequate,
                            circuits courts should be abolished; otherwise, he said, their jurisdiction should be
                            extended to all states. See Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents, II, 461, 558, 605; III, 117, 177.
                  
                     40 See the introduction, pp. 324–25.
                  
                     41 The Ordinance of 1787 had suggested the possibility of creating
                            from the Northwest Territory two tiers of states separated by an east-west line through the
                            southern tip of Lake Michigan. 
                                Ohio
                            , wanting to control the mouth of the Maumee River,
                            provided in its Constitution of 1803 that, if necessary, her northern boundary would follow
                            a line running from the southern tip of Lake Michigan in a
                            northeasterly direction in order to strike Lake Erie at the north side of Maumee Bay.
                            Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            , realizing that the 1787 line would give them no Lake
                            Michigan shoreline, requested and received from Congress northern boundaries that
                            lay north of the southern tip of the lake by ten and approximately sixty miles respectively.
                            When 
                                Michigan
                             petitioned for statehood in 1834, her boundary with 
                                Ohio
                             was described as the east-west line passing through the southern tip of
                                Lake Michigan. The controversy that ensued raised questions about
                            the entire line, dividing the upper and lower tiers, from Lake Erie to the
                                Mississippi River. See Eugene H. Roseboom and Francis P.
                            Weisenburger, A History of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 161–62; Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1
                            Sess., Appendix 1841–44 (April 19, 1816); ibid., 15 Cong., 1
                            Sess., Appendix 2544–47 (April 18, 1818).
               
                     officer entrusted with that service had not accompanied his
                    report with an estimate of the cost, and these documents not being prepared at the Department till a
                    late period of the session, the proposition was in this way thrown upon the back ground. The bill to
                    establish the Territory of 
                        Wisconsin
                     remains also on the list of unfinished business.
            The bill fixing the northern boundaries of the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , did not propose any new boundary for Indiana, but proposed to sanction the survey and
                    designation of that boundary, made under authority of an act of Congress. The northern boundary of
                    the State is fixed and settled, as permanently as the laws of Congress, and the Constitution of the
                    State can establish it; and no further legislation is necessary, except to declare that the line
                    thus run, shall be deemed and taken, as the boundary prescribed by the law of Congress and the
                    constitution of the State.
            A law has passed making further appropriation for the continuation of the Cumberland road in the
                    States of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and for the final repair of that road east of the Ohio
                    river. That portion of it is to be surrendered to the States of 
                  Maryland, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    , and all expenditure upon it, and all care over it, on the part of the Federal
                    Government will henceforward and forever cease. The road east of the Ohio river
                    has been a greater obstacle than every thing else, in getting appropriations for the road further
                    west, but this obstacle is now removed.
            A law has also passed making an appropriation for topographical examinations and surveys. This puts
                    $25,000 at the disposal of the President of the 
                        United States
                    . With the means afforded by this appropriation, the Secretary of war [Lewis Cass] is
                    directed, by a resolution of the Senate, to cause to be made the survey of a road from the Maumee
                    bay, through the northern tier of counties in Indiana to some point on the Mississippi
                        river, between Rock Island and Quincy. And
                    with the same means, Engineers will probably be detailed by the War Department, to survey several
                    other roads in the State of Indiana.
            With lasting gratitude, and profound respect for the People of the State,
            I remain their obedient servant,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            
            Circular Relating to the 24th Congress, 1st Session (1835–1836)42
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, June 30, 1836.
            ANOTHER Session of strange and peculiar character is drawing near to a close, and
                    as heretofore has been my custom, I purpose on the present occasion, to give to the People of the
                    State, a brief outline of the business transacted by it, and pending before it. It has been a
                    Session of great interest, novel in its character and incidents and calculated to produce a strong
                    and exciting action upon the body politic throughout the 
                        United States
                    .
            The Surplus Revenue, strange as it may appear, has been the most difficult question of the Session.
                    The surplus on hand, was admitted, by a report of the Secretary of the Treasury [Levi Woodbury], of
                    the 9th of June last, to be upwards of thirty-three millions. This in the vaults of the Deposite
                    Banks, was withdraw [n] from circulation, or its circulation in all respects, subjected to the
                    discretion of those institutions.—Various plans have been proposed for getting rid of it:
                    such as Distribution among the States; building Fortifications on the sea board, and ships of war;
                    and the Land Bill. These several schemes have had their advocates, but, until a late period of the
                    Session, the probability was, that the whole surplus would be expended, in building fortifications,
                    and ships of war, and in arming them. The friends of the Land Bill were not however opposed to a
                    gradual increase of the Navy and fortifications, nor to appropriations much enlarged for these
                    objects; but they contended for a distribution of the proceeds of land sales, leaving the revenue
                    from all other sources, for the current expenditures of the Government.
            I voted for the Land bill; think the distribution it proposes, the best that we in the new States can
                    ever hope to get, and believe that unless we get this, we get nothing else valuable to us on that
                    subject.—Reduction of price, and graduation, have been unsuccessfully tried for ten or
                    fifteen years. I have heretofore in letters like this, given my views in this matter, and entered
                    into calculations to show the amount which this bill, in five years, would divide to the State of
                        
                  
                     42 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Republican Banner, July 13, 1836 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 7, 1835, and adjourned July 4,
                        1836.
               
                     Indiana.43 Such however has been the great
                    increase of land sales of late, and especially within the last year, that all my calculations have
                    been left far on the back ground. The receipts from the Public Lands during the past year exceeded
                    fifteen millions, and there is good reasons to believe that during the present year, they will
                    exceed twenty millions.44 The dividend to which Indiana would be entitled of the
                    sum on hand, the 27th January last, is, agreeably to a report of the committee on Public lands,
                    $917,213 and this is little more than two-fifths of the sum which would have been
                    distributed by the bill. This is in my opinion better for us, than building ships to rot in our
                    docks and harbours, before we shall ever find use for them, for we have at present more than are
                    ever employed at the same time. It is better too than building useless fortifications, which must be
                    abandoned in a great measure to dilapidation after they are built; for unless we greatly increase
                    our Army, we shall not have men enough to garrison them.
            It is believed by many, whose opinions are entitled to great respect, that the amount which would be
                    distributed by the Land Bill, in five years, would be upwards of $50,000,000, and that
                    the surplus for distribution by the other mode, will be somewhere between thirty and forty millions.
                    The Land Bill had long been before the House of Representatives, having passed the Senate, and no
                    action upon it promising a favourable result having been had, other dispositions of the surplus were
                    proposed.
            The propositions to deposite in the State Treasuries, the surplus which shall be on hand on the first
                    of January next, leaving five millions in the Treasury of the 
                        United States
                    , has been adopted by large majorities of both Houses and received the sanction of the
                    President. From thirty-five to forty millions will in all probability be deposited in the State
                    Treasuries under that law. But the distribution of the same sum by the Land Bill, would have been
                    better for the new States by ten per cent., because by it, they would have received ten per cent, of
                    the monies received from the sales, before any general division would have taken place. By the other
                    bill no such advantage is given to the new States. This 
                  
                     43 See above, pp. 346–48.
                  
                     44 In 1836 land sales totalled nearly twenty-five million dollars. See
                            Vernon Carstensen, ed., The Public Lands (
                                Madison
                            , 1963), 253.
               
                     however can be better illustrated by figures than in any other
                    way. On the 27th of January last, agreeably to a report of the Committee on the Public Lands of the
                    Senate, there were for distribution as proposed by the Land Bill, $20,571,125. - 75[.]
                    The dividend of Indiana out of this sum, is $917,213, agreeably to the Land Bill.
                    Agreeably to the other bill it is ten per cent. less. But the Land Bill does not terminate on the
                    first of January next, as the other bill does. It distributes the proceeds of the Land sales till
                    the 31st of December, 1837, ten or fifteen millions in all probability after the other bill will
                    cease to operate on the receipts into the Treasury. In addition to this, the Land Bill contained an
                    appropriation of 115,000 acres of land in favour of the State of Indiana, which if judiciously
                    selected in the new lands, not yet brought into market, would have been worth from three to
                    $500,000. Taking then these three items, the difference in the amounts distributed under
                    the two bills; the ten per. cent., and the 115,000 acres of land, and it is a calculation perfectly
                    safe, that the difference to Indiana between these two bills, would exceed one million of dollars.
                    The time however will soon come, in which this whole matter will be told in dollars and cents at the
                    Treasury. On the first of January next it will be known how much will be deposited in the Treasuries
                    under the law just passed, and on the 31st December, 1837, it will be known how much has been
                    received from the land sales in five previous years. Besides the distributions under the Land Bill
                    were final payments to the States.—By the other bill the money deposited in the State
                    Treasuries are liable to be recalled whenever the Secretary of the Treasury shall determine that
                    such recall is necessary for the Government. Such recall however, is by no means probable. The law
                    which has just passed is worth to the State, probably more than a million of dollars.
            I voted for both bills; think the provisions of either better in all respects, than the former
                    condition of things, and have given my reasons for prefering the Land Bill. Had both bills passed,
                    the land proceeds would have first been distributed, because the Land Bill designates a particular
                    fund, and makes a final disposition of it. In that event, the other bill would have merely regulated
                    the deposites of the current revenue, for the time being, in the local Banks.
            A law has passed, fixing the boundaries of 
                        Michigan
                    , and admitting her as a State into the Union, on condition  that she call a Convention and modify her constitution as the law
                        prescribes.45 This fixes the boundary between 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , so as to include within the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , the North Cape of the Maumee Bay, and, of course, the eastern outlet of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, its points of union with the Lake. It recognises also the Northern
                    boundary of Indiana, as fixed and established by our constitution, and puts to rest the pretension
                    of 
                        Michigan
                     to a portoin [sic] of our territory in the North. 
                        Michigan
                     will then, on compliance with the requirements of the law, be entitled to seats for her
                    Senators and Representative, in the next Session of Congress.
            A law has also passed for the admission of 
                        Arkansas
                    , as a State of the Union.46
            
            The Seminole war in 
                        Florida
                     has not yet been brought to a close. It has probably been more disastrous, considering
                    the number of Indians engaged, and the force apposed [sic] to them, than any
                    Indian war, in which the country has ever been engaged. The Seminoles are a small tribe of Indians,
                    surrounded by the Gulf and Atlantic coasts on the South and East, and by 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     on the North. They inhabit the swamps and hammocks, and inaccessible fastnesses of the
                    country, and have kept in check and eluded the pursuit of armies, which in the open field could have
                    consumed them in an hour.—They are yet unsubdued, having laid the country waste from the
                    point of 
                        Florida
                     and St. Augustine to Tallahassee. They were bound by treaty to emigrate West of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , but instead of fulfilling the obligations of treaty, they have taken up the hatchet;
                    have committed many murders and will probably be nearly exterminated before they submit.
            A portion of the Creeks of 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    , encouraged no doubt by the successes of the Seminoles, have also become hostile; have
                    massacred all within their reach; broken up and laid waste a large district of country, and
                    attempted to some extent, a union and a concert with the Seminoles. A fearful retribution however
                    awaits them, unless prevented by speedy and entire submission. They have no inaccessible country in
                    which to hide themselves. These things will hasten the removal of all the Southern Indians, to the
                    districts of country prepared for them, West of the 
                        Mississippi
                    
                    
                  
                     45 See footnote 41 above.
                  
                     46 The admission of 
                                Michigan
                             and 
                                Arkansas
                             maintained the Senate's balance between free states and slave states
                            with thirteen of each.
               
                     river. The Cherokees have recently ceded the residue of their
                    country, and will remove. Whatever fate may await them beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    , it is obvious and certain, that, surrounded as they are by the whites, and refusing to
                    adopt the pursuits of civilized life, the rem[n]ants of those tribes cannot exist where they are.
            A portion of the Army, under the command of General [Edmund P.] Gaines, is employed on our Southern
                    border, with a view of keeping our Territory inviolate, and of protecting the frontiers of 
                        Arkansas
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     from the Indians, in the event of their being engaged in the war between 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Mexico
                    . This army of observation is upon the Sabine, and its presence has no doubt preserved
                    peace within our limits.47 The Indians do not appear to have engaged to any
                    considerable extent in the Texian [sic] war, though that war, has raged with
                    exterminating fury between the belligerents. That war, it is believed, is now at an end. The Army of 
                        Texas
                     has recently achieved a splendid, and in the opinion of many, a decisive victory over
                    the Armies of 
                        Mexico
                    .48 The power of 
                        Mexico
                     is, at this time entirely extinct in 
                        Texas
                    , her Armies are dispersed or annihilated; and Santa Anna, her civil as well as military
                    chief is a prisoner of war. This must be gratifying to the friends of civil and religious liberty
                    every where; and whatever may be the moral and political complexion of 
                        Texas
                     hereafter, much will have been gained by the achievement of her independence. The
                    population of these 
                        United States
                     must preponderate there, and their institutions will be assimilated to those of our
                    Government.
            The Army of the 
                        United States
                     was organized at the close of the late war with 
                        England
                     to consist of ten thousand men. It was reduced by the act of 1821 to six thousand, and
                    since that date it has been considerably increased. In 1832, a batallion of Mounted Riflemen was
                    added, which, in 1833, was changed to a regiment of Dragoons.49 At the present
                    Session another regiment of Dragoons has been authorized by law; and it is in contemplation to
                    increase the rank and 
                  
                     47 The Sabine River forms much of the boundary
                            between 
                                Louisiana
                             and 
                                Texas
                            .
                  
                     48 See the introduction, p. 328.
                  
                     49 Dragoons were trained to fight on horseback. Mounted riflemen were
                            infantry whose horses were used primarily for transportation.
               
                     file of the Artillery and Infantry. Various causes have
                    combined to produce this increase of our military force at the present time; such as the war in 
                        Florida
                    ; the rising of the Creeks; the strong detachment necessary to be kept up on the Sabine,
                    and our extensive frontier from Mackinaw to 
                        Texas
                    . This frontier is rendered doubly important by the location of the many tribes of
                    Indians on the frontiers of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                    , and indeed, upon the whole line. This location of the Indians, and our existing
                    treaties with them, by which we guarantee them peace among themselves, and protection against the
                    wandering tribes further West, has created the necessity for Dragoon service; but it will greatly
                    increase our power and control over them. It will enable our troops to find them embodied, and in a
                    plain smooth country, remote from impenetrable forest and fastnesses, such as have enabled them thus
                    far to injure and elude our troops in 
                        Florida
                    .
            But little prospect exists of removing the Miami Indians from our State, in any short period of time.
                    The Pottawattamies will, no doubt, soon be gone; but the Miamies own large and desirable
                    reservations on the 
                        Upper Wabash
                    , contiguous to the canal.50 These have become valuable, of which
                    the Indians seem well advised, and the treaty of 1834, by which they agreed to sell a part of their
                    possessions, contained provisions objected to by the President, and has never been submitted for
                    ratification. Two unsuccessful efforts have been made to have it modified, and so the matter rests.
                    Believing that time would increase rather than diminish the difficulty of treating with them, I
                    have, with others of the [Indiana congressional] Delegation, been anxious for the ratification of
                    that treaty.
            The bill making appropriations for the construction of the Cumberland road in the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , has at length become a law. The sum for the road in 
                        Ohio
                     is $200,000; that for Indiana, $250,000; and for 
                        Illinois
                    , $100,000. More difficulty and delay than usual heretofore have been
                    experienced in this matter; and it is much to be regretted that so much of the working season will
                    have passed by, before operations upon it can be commenced.
            
               
                  50 A Potawatomi removal was made two years later; the Miami remained
                        almost a decade. See Irving McKee, The Trail of Death: Letters of Benjamin Marie
                            Petit (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 1; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1941); Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (
                            Norman
                        , 1970), 190–233.
            
            
            A bill appropriating $50,000 for the improvement of the Wabash river
                    passed the Senate, at an early period of the Session, but has not yet been acted on by the House.51
            
            An appropriation of $25,000 for a harbor at 
                        Michigan city
                    , has passed both Houses, and an additional appropriation for a lighthouse at that
                    place, has also been made.52
            
            The 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canalbill has passed the Senate, and is before the House.53 It
                    authorizes the purchase of the private stock at sixteen per cent, above par, provided so much of it
                    can be procu[r]ed as to give the Government the control of the Canal. The object is to make the
                    Canal free except such tolls as shall be necessary to keep it in a state of preservation and repair.
                    The obligation of the Government to improve the navigation of the Ohio river at
                    the Falls, and to remove the obstructions there, seems to be fully admitted, and should the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal Company refuse to sell their stock, and carry into effect the objects of the
                    bill, the People of the West will have almost a guarantee that Congress will not hesitate hereafter
                    to appropriate money for the purpose of making a free canal on the other side of the river. There a
                    much better canal can be made than the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal. One that would unite 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        New Albany
                    , would be a perfect work, and be more valuable for its water power than perhaps any
                    other establishment in the 
                        United States
                    . No such appropriation, however, can be expected, until the Stockholders of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal shall have refused a liberal proposition from Congress in relation to that work.
                    Without such proposition, it would be ungenerous, if not unjust, for Congress to render that work
                    valueless, by making a free canal on the other side of the river.
            The Territory of 
                        Wisconsin
                     has recently been formed; a Governor and Judges appointed, and a Territorial Government
                    will soon be established there. It embraces all our territory from Lake
                    Michigan West, and from the Northern boundaries of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , to the British line. It includes the Mississippi river from its
                    source to the mouth of the Des Moines. A Territory, large, and some of it fertile, and 
                  
                     51 This bill did not become law.
                  
                     52 The bill that became law provided $20,000 to construct
                            this harbor "according to the plan reported to the War Department." See
                                Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xlvii-xlviii (July 4,
                            1836).
                  
                     53 This bill did not become law. See the introduction, pp.
                            324–25.
               
                     which must at no very distant day, include two or more States.
            A bill establishing many additional Post Routes has become a law. This will create, and increase,
                    mail accommodations in various quarters, and especially in the northern parts of our State.
            The question of Slavery has agitated considerably the present Session, and there is great danger that
                    it has not yet been put to rest. The Abolitionists of the North are actuated by a zeal no doubt
                    misguided, for with the question of Slavery, except in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , this Government has nothing whatever to do. Slavery in the States is a question
                    exclusively belonging to themselves. The expediency of abolishing it here was, however, the chief
                    question, and the petitioners have no right to complain of any thing, unless it be the
                    disinclination to receive their petitions, and the rejection of the prayer of their petitions
                    without consideration, or the ordinary reference to a committee.54 Slavery, it
                    must be admitted, is a dangerous and deep-rooted evil in our political system; but it is one for
                    which there seems to be no remedy, and the less the subject is agitated here and elsewhere, the
                    better it is for the peace and welfare of the Union.
            The present Congress met at a period when the Foreign Relations of the country were lowering and
                    portentous. When the country was on the very verge of a French war, which no one seemed to have
                    realized or expected, and of which the danger was not discovered until it was exhibited by the
                    Message at the opening of the Session.55 The extraordinary demand for
                    explanations on the part of the French Government, as a preliminary condition of her fulfillment of
                    the solemn obligations of a treaty, and the indignant tone, and universal determination of the
                    American People, that no humiliating explanation should be given, seemed at one time to leave little
                    hope of a peaceful termination of our difficulties with 
                        France
                    . And we are perhaps more indebted to the condition of Europe; the menacing attitude and
                    the mammoth power of Russia for the pacific disposition of 
                        France
                    , than 
                  
                     54 Petitions asking for the abolition of slavery in the 
                                District of Columbia
                             became so numerous and so controversial that they interfered with the
                            legislative activities of Congress, especially the House of Representatives. The House,
                            therefore, adopted a policy of referring all such petitions to a select committee without
                            debate. See Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 1 Sess., 2498–99
                            (February 8, 1836).
                  
                     55 See the introduction, pp. 328–29.
               
                     to any other cause. 
                  France, England
               , and 
                        Spain
                    , seem to be viewing with anxious solicitude, the present almost irresistable power of
                    Russia, and looking with much distrust and jealousy at her naval armament on the Black
                    sea. The South of Europe seems to have determined on checking the progress of Russia
                    southward, and on confining the Emperor Nicholas more to his original limits. A war cloud has been
                    gathering over Europe, and it would have been bad policy to have permitted the resources of 
                        France
                    , to be crippled or exhausted, by a causeless and fruitless war with this country at a
                    time when she is in danger of a war with Russia. This is no doubt the secret of the mediation of 
                        England
                     which was offered and accepted; whose maritime and commercial interests, would
                    otherwise have been much better consulted by war between 
                        France
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . Whatever the true motive or reason of the conduct of 
                        France
                     may have been, she has taken as sufficient explanation, the Message of the President at
                    the commencement of the present Session, and so has terminated all apprehension of a French war.
            Our intercourse with all the civilized nations of the earth, are of the most friendly character. We
                    have ambassadors and other diplomatic agents wherever the interests of the country require. Our
                    commerce has of late been greatly extended. It floats upon every ocean and sea, wheresoever the
                    enterprise and cupidity of man has tempted him to go, and Squadrons of our Navy for the protection
                    of this commerce, are cruising in the Mediterranean, the West Indies, and the Pacific
                        Ocean.
            The Session, which has been much too long, will terminate on Monday next, the 4th of July.
            With great respect,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 24th Congress, 2nd Session (1836–1837)56
            
            WASHINGTON, FEB. 14, 1837.
            THE present session so far, has been one not of uncommon interest. The great mass
                    of unfinished business, at the close of the last session, was entered upon at the commencement of
                        
                  
                     56 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, March 8, 1837 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 5, 1836, and adjourned March 3,
                        1837.
               
                     the present session, with a more than ordinary spirit of
                    industry, promising results favorable to public and private interests. Party spirit and violence,
                    had to a certain extent, spent their force in the presidential election, and the public mind as it
                    seemed to require a season of rest, so it appears to have settled down into a spirit and condition
                    of repose. The presidential election resulted in a choice of one of the candidates, not as had been
                    predicted by many, and wished by some.57 Had that election come into the House
                    of Representatives, as in 1825 the excitement would have been kept up, and the scenes of that epoch,
                    ominous as they were, to the peace and welfare of the country, might have been acted over again.58 The nation would at all events have been excited, if not convulsed, by the
                    movements of master spirits in high places acting prominent parts in the great political drama.
            The election for Vice President, did not however result in the choice of any one of the candidates in
                    the colleges of electors. Of the two hundred and ninety four electoral votes given, one hundred and
                    forty eight were necessary to a choice, and Colonel [Richard M.] Johnson of 
                        Kentucky
                     had one hundred and forty-seven: precisely one half of the whole number; the other half
                    of the votes were divided among three other candidates. This election under the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , devolved upon the senate; and Col. Johnson was elected by a very large vote of that
                        body.59 These elections being ever [sic] there is now
                    little to excite. Every man seems to be repa [i] ring to his own tent, and a calm has taken place of
                    a furious tempest, and a long political storm. The just sentiment of testing the coming
                    administration by its acts and its merits, seems generally to prevail; and the number of those who
                    have raised in advance, the standard of opposition, before any thing had been done to oppose, is
                    inconsiderable 
                  
                     57 Martin Van Buren, the Democrat candidate, had defeated William
                            Henry Harrison, the Whig candidate.
                  
                     58 In the presidential election of 1824 Andrew Jackson received a
                            plurality but not a majority of the electoral votes. Early the next year the House of
                            Representatives, fulfilling its constitutional responsibility, precipitated bitter
                            controversy by choosing John Quincy Adams, the second place candidate, over Jackson.
                  
                     59 Though Harrison and Francis Granger had carried Indiana, Hendricks
                            and John Tipton, the other Indiana senator, both voted for Johnson, Van Buren's
                            running mate. See Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana Election
                                Returns, 1816–1851 (Indiana Historical Collections,
                            Vol. XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 21–28; Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 2
                            Sess., 738–39 (February 8, 1837).
               
                     and small. If the measures of the administration of Mr.
                    [Martin] Van Buren shall be good and salutary, and promote the best interests of the country, let
                    him have the right hand of fellowship, and the fair support of the honest and the good of all
                        parties.60 If otherwise, let the country be sustained, and his
                    administration rebuked and opposed.
            The session has been a short one, and but little new business originated. It has chiefly been
                    employed in legislating upon the unfinished business of last session.
            The Treasury Circular requiring the payment of specie for public lands, will in all probability,
                    before the close of the present session, be superceded by law. A bill to that effect has already
                    passed the Senate. The object of this bill is, gradually to throw the influence of the treasury,
                    into the scale of specie circulation, in place of small bank notes, by excluding such from being
                    received in the land offices and custom-houses. It provides for the receipt of all solvent bank
                    paper of the country which shall be accredited as specie by the deposit banks. No notes are to be
                    received, or accredited by the deposite banks of less denomination than five dollars. After July
                    1839, and until July, 1841 none of a less denomination than ten dollars; and after that, none are to
                    be received of a less denomination than twenty dollars. Nor is any bank to receive of the public
                    deposites, which shall refuse to comply with these regulations. Thus will this matter hereafter be
                    regulated by law, and be taken, in a great measure, out of the control of the Treasury Department.
                    This bill has been adopted by a very large vote of the Senate, and cannot fail to remove the fiscal
                    pressure from the country, as far as that pressure has been produced, or kept in existence by the
                    operation of the Specie Circular.61
            
            The amount of Surplus Revenue in the Treasury, and subjected to the law of last session, was, on the
                    first of January last, $37,468,859. 97. Of this amount Indiana has received, and is
                    entitled to receive, $1,147,005 92. One fourth of this sum has already been paid over to
                    the State, and the 
                  
                     60 Hendricks made similar remarks about support for the new
                            presidential administration when Andrew Jackson succeeded John Quincy Adams in 1829. See
                            Hill, "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: First
                            Senatorial Term, 1825–1831," 158–59.
                  
                     61 This bill received a pocket veto from President Jackson. See
                            Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, III,
                        282–83.
               
                     residue is payable in three equal instalments, on the first of
                    April, July, and October next. The amount declared to be in the Treasury on the first of January
                    last, and subject to the disposition prescribed by the law, would have been increased between eight
                    and nine millions, had the payment of the 
                        United States
                     Bank stock been made into the Treasury previous to that day. This however was not done,
                    and that sum, with other accumulations, will remain for the action of another law, similar to that
                    of last session, which will, or ought to pass before the close of the present session.62 The Specie Circular being superseded, the banks will discount more liberally, and their
                    paper will be received into the Land Offices. These with our quota of the surplus paid over, will,
                    whether for good or for evil, enlarge the circulating medium in our State, and with it our fiscal
                    prosperity, greatly beyond what it has ever been before.63
            
            In both Houses, bills have been reported to modify the tariff, to the revenue necessary for the
                    current expenses of the Government, but there is no probability that any law will pass on that
                    subject at the present Session. It would in the opinion of many, be a violation of good faith to
                    disturb the compromise arrangement of 1833, which will not expire till 1842. Besides, no one can
                    tell what amount of revenue will then be necessary for the Government—what new
                    expenditures; what change of policy; what wars the country may be engaged in. Already have we been
                    subjected to the expenditure of millions, which at the date of that compromise, no one could have
                    foreseen, as at all probable. These have been occasioned by various causes; the miserable Seminole
                    war which still lingers; and the consequent increase of the Army; a corresponding increase of Naval
                    expenditures, induced by the troubles apparent with 
                        France
                     not long since, and the unprecedented expansion of our commerce in every direction.
                    These have required a proportionate enlargement of our Naval equipments, and our squadrons and ships
                    are cruising on almost every ocean and sea on the face of the globe. The tariff then will not
                    probably be touched at present, and the bills referred to, may be considered as feelers of public
                    sentiment, rather than movements promising immediate legislation.64
            
            
               
                  62 Congress did not enact a second distribution law.
               
                  63 See footnote 61 above.
               
                  64 The tariff was not altered.
            
            
            The Public Lands, as heretofore, have been a very fruitful source of legislative effort, and have
                    occupied a large portion of the time of the Senate, for the last three or four weeks. The President
                    in his message at the commencement of the session, had recommended the limitation of the sales to
                    actual settlers, and the subject was referred of course to the Committee on the Public Lands. The
                    Committee reported a bill in conformity to the message, with the principle of pre-emption in favor
                    of early occupants. The subject is one on which a greater variety of opinion exists than almost any
                    other. The bill was amended, and finally passed the Senate, but its fate in the House is
                        doubtful.65 It is limited to the year 1840. The land receipts of the year
                    1836, are about $26,000,000. Of this sum, Indiana has paid $4,061,510 19.
            The condition of 
                        Texas
                    , her history, civil and military, and her great exertions to secure her own liberty and
                    independence, are well calculated to excite our warmest sympathies, and to enlist for her, the best
                    wishes of the friends of civil and religious liberty every where.66 It is unjust
                    towards the brave men, who are fighting her battles, and giving her a rank and a name among the
                    Republics of the earth, to call them a band of adventurers, contending with 
                        Mexico
                    , merely for the rich domains of that fertile and delightful region. They no doubt went
                    to 
                        Mexico
                     to better their condition in life; and for the same purpose did the Pilgrims go to 
                        New England
                    . The laws of 
                        Mexico
                     invited them to the country, and as early as 1820 gave them large grants of land on
                    condition of settlement and cultivation. These laws of colonization, were enacted with a special
                    view of attracting the bold and energetic citizens of the 
                        United States
                     to 
                        Texas
                    , for the double purpose of settling the country, and defending it against the numerous
                    and warlike tribes of Indians who infested it. For the last fifteen years a large majority of its
                    inhabitants have been emigrants from the 
                        United States
                    ; schooled in our free institutions, they carried with them a love of liberty and law,
                    and were inclined to resist a despotism which governed only by the sword. The Constitution of 
                        Mexico
                    , which were a confederation of States, faintly resembling our own, was overthrown by a
                    commanding General.
            
               
                  65 This bill did not become law.
               
                  66 See the introduction, p. 328.
            
            
            The Congress of the Confederation was dissolved by a military order, and by the same process was
                    another convened; and a Government of central power established under the auspices of a successful
                    military chief. The inquietudes and remonstrances of Texian liberty, were menaced and met by the arm
                    of Mexican power, and a war of extermination waged upon the people. No friend of personal rights and
                    free Governments, can read the history of their wrongs, without pronouncing their cause to be just,
                    and their Declaration of Independence based as firmly on the rights of man, as was that of our own
                    Revolution. The bloody and exterminating cruelties of the Mexican armies at the 
                        Alamo
                     and Goliad, were gloriously and decisively reversed at the battle of San Jacinto, where
                    the whole Mexican army was annihilated, and Santa Anna, her President and General, taken prisoner. A
                    Constitution and Government similar to that of the 
                        United States
                    , is in existence in 
                        Texas
                    , and profiting by our example, she is advancing in the organization of her civil
                    departments, with a rapidity unknown to our first years of self government.—With Santa
                    Anna she has made a treaty acknowledging her independence of 
                        Mexico
                    . The ratification of this, however, depends on his getting possession again of his
                    authority at home, whether [sic] he has recently gone from this place. He was
                    kindly received by President Jackson, by whose order he has been taken to 
                        Vera Cruz
                     in a Government vessel. Our own late bickerings with 
                        Mexico
                    , little to be feared as they are, will no doubt be entirely at an end, as soon as he
                    shall have regained his authority.
            The question of the annexation of 
                        Texas
                     as a State of this Union, is one, which will no doubt be presented and pressed at no
                    distant day. It is one about which there are discordant opinions here, and every where. Whatever may
                    be thought of this question, there is probably but one opinion on the subject of her
                    independence.—Her independence of 
                        Mexico
                    , every friend to civil and religious liberty must devoutedly wish. Our Government will
                    no doubt ere long acknowledge her independence,67 and whether annexed to this
                    Union or not, she will be closely allied to us, and especially 
                  
                     67 Diplomatic recognition of 
                                Texas
                            , where slavery was a prominent institution, had been delayed because of the
                            possible effect on the election of 1836. Recognition was extended, however, on March 3,
                            1837, President Jackson's last day in office. See Glyndon G. Van Deusen, The Jacksonian Era, 1828–1848 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 109–10.
               
                     to the Southern States, in affinities and interests, and in the
                    genius and forms of her Government.
            The Government of 
                        Mexico
                     is now, and has generally been since her independence of 
                        Spain
                    , a wretched military despotism.—Revolutions only change its form; its spirit
                    and genius remain the same, and the change produced by Santa Anna, in 1834, from confederation, to
                    consolidation, tho' much to be complained of on the part of the States, which were thus
                    deprived of self government, was one li[t]tle felt or understood by the Spanish and Mexican
                    population. In 
                        Texas
                     alone the sword of liberty was drawn, for there the rights of the States, under a
                    confederation, were prized and understood.
            Our foreign relations are in a condition of prosperity and peace. With the exception of 
                        Mexico
                    , our intercourse with all the nations of the earth, is on a footing or [sic] perfect harmony and good will. Seldom has peace been more general on the earth, than
                    at the present time. A civil war it is true prevails in 
                        Spain
                    , and the affairs of Portugal are not entirely at rest. The recent expedition too of the
                    French, has retired from Algiers in disaster and disgrace. But with a few such exceptions as these,
                    a profound peace exists throughout the civilized world; the sword has returned to its scabbard, and
                    men to the arts of peace.
            Another appropriation for the Cumberland Road in the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     will, no doubt pass before the close of the present Session, and with such conditions
                    as shall cause the expenditures hereaft[e]r in Indiana to be made along the line of the road, and
                    not confined to one particular point, as was the case during the last year. Owing to that
                    circumstance, a large amount of the appropriation of last year remains unexpended. To this balance,
                    $100,000 will probably be added for our State, and the work it is hoped and believed will
                    progress rapidly during the present year.68
            
            The States of 
                        Arkansas
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    , have, at the present Session been admitted into the Union. The history of 
                        Michigan
                     in connexion with her assumption of State character, is one of entire novelty.69 She had formed her Constitution, 
                  
                     68 The Cumberland Road appropriation contained the provisions here
                            described. See Register of Debates, 24 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 31 (March
                            3, 1837). This appendix has double pagination. Page numbers refer to the second set of
                            pages.
                  
                     69 See footnote 41 above.
               
                     including within her boundaries a portion of the Territory of
                    Indiana along our whole northern line; and a portion of Territory claimed by the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , between our eastern boundary and the Maumee Bay, upon Lake Erie. With these boundaries
                    she presented herself at the last Session, and demanded admission as a State of the Union. This was
                    refused her, and a law passed, requiring her so to modify her Constitution in the article of
                    boundary, as to exclude the disputed Territory. On this subject she has held within the last six
                    months two conventions, the latter of which modified her boundaries as proposed by the law of last
                    Session, and with boundaries thus modified, she has been admitted into the Union. The number of
                    States is now twenty-six; eight of which have been admitted during the short period of my services
                    in Congress! In 1816 Indiana was admitted into the Union. I had then the honor of being her first
                    Representative. Since the admission of Indian [a], 
                  Mississippi, Illinois, Alabama, Maine
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    , and now at the present Session, 
                        Arkansas
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    , have in succession assumed the rank of Independent States. The Union has been greatly
                    strengthened and extended within that short period. It now reaches from the Bay of Fundy to the Gulf
                    of 
                        Mexico
                    . The 
                        Florida
                    's have been added by treaty, and our boundaries enlarged beyond the
                        Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Ocean. No epoch of our
                    history is better calculated to portray the future enlargement, and grandeur, and destiny of this
                    great Republic, than the last twenty years. The picture is one of dazzling national glory; and is
                    only dimmed and obscured by our own discords and the prospects of disunion.—Twenty years
                    ago, the Land Sales had for the past years, averaged less than $1,000,000 a
                    year.—Last year they exceeded $26,000,000. In 1820 the population of the 
                        United States
                     was 9,637,999 souls. In 1830 it amounted to 12,866,020, and at the present time it no
                    doubt exceeds 15,000,000.—In the course of a few ensuing years, three other new States
                    must be formed and received into the Union. One on the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                     including the present Territory of 
                        Florida
                    , and two on the Upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , in the Territory of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .70
            
            
               
                  70
                        
                            Florida
                         was admitted to the Union in 1845; 
                            Iowa
                         and 
                            Wisconsin
                         were admitted in 1846 and 1848 respectively.
            
            
            Nothing mars our view of unrivaled future prosperity, and of our march to it, so much as the
                    condition of slavery in the Southern States, and the feeling and spirit of abolition which prevails
                    in the North. This is the rock on which the vessel of the Union is likely to split. The condition of
                    slavery in the Southern States, it is admitted by all, cannot always remain as it is. The free
                    population of the South are continually draining in a greater or less degree to the North [.] This
                    process is materially affecting that condition in the South. It is giving slavery more power, or
                    rather the slave population greater comparative numbers than before. In addition to this, slaves are
                    continually crowding further to the South. Slavery has long since been wholly abolished in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and all the States further North. There is little of it even now in 
                  Delaware, Maryland,
                            Virginia
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    , will soon cease to de [sic] slaveholding States.—The
                    slave population will be crowded into the States further South, where their numbers and physical
                    power cannot fail to endanger the peace and safety of the whites. This is a gloomy picture, but in
                    the ordinary course of events, it is sure to be realized. Still the non-slaveholding States have
                    nothing to do with slavery in the Southern States. This is a matter of State regulation altogether.
                    If the Union had not been formed, could the people north of the Potomac have interferred with
                    slavery in the South? Surely not. The Union was formed without giving the Federal Government any
                    power over the subject slave [except] in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    .—Wisdom and patriotism itself, then, would say let this matter alone. Let
                    the Southern States treat this delicate and dangerous subject in their own way. Let not the States
                    and the people of the North hasten the evil day. 
                        Texas
                    , whether annexed to the Union or not, is a great slave market for the South. It will
                    induce the current of slave population there, and may divert and possibly prevent the disasters of a
                    too great accumulation of slaves in the States furthest South. This may diffuse the slave population
                    so as to diminish at all events the danger to be apprehended from it.
            A few days will terminate the present Session, and with it in all probability forever, the period of
                    my public labors in the service of Indiana. It is not for me to say in what manner I have discharged
                    the duties committed to my care. This however I might be permitted to say, and I hope I might  say it without arrogance, that in every situation of public
                    life to which I have been called, in no instance, has any consideration of personal interest, or
                    ambition, been allowed to take place of the interests of the State. However humble may have been the
                    talents and qualifications brought into her service, they have been faithfully employed in giving
                    impulse to her best interests. Others may serve her with more ability, but none with more devotion,
                    zeal and fidelity, than the humble indivi[d]ual, who owes [so much] to her partiality ond [sic] kindnes[s], and who now closes a public life, unsought, and unlooked for in
                    its commencement, of twenty-one years.71—Whatever may have been the
                    ardor and intensity of my zeal and industry in her service, and of my devotion to her interests;
                    whatever may have been the buffetings of political life and the fiery ordeal through which I have
                    passed, conscious I am, that I shall never cease to owe her a debt of gratitude, and one so large
                    that I shall never be able to pay.
            Neither prosperity nor adversity can ever eradicate these things from my mind, or separate me in
                    heart and affection from the people of the State. I have seen many days of her prosperity: in which
                    she has grown and flourished like "a green bay tree." I have seen many of her
                    important interests rising into existence. Some of them in infancy have been especially committed to
                    my care; some of these have since gained colossal size and strength, and now march forward with
                    irresistible power, overcoming by their own energies every thing that comes in their
                    way.—Such is the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, and the Cumberland Road. These were the first important public works
                    commenced in our State and they are still, and ever will be, the main arteries in our system of
                    internal improvement. Whilst I shall live to behold the waters of the 
                        Mississippi
                     united with those of the Northern Lakes thro' the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, I shall not cease to look back with pride and pleasure to the part it
                    was my lot fo [sic] bear in giving impulse to that first and most magnificent of
                    our works of internal navigation.72
                
            With great respect.
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            
               
                  71 Hendricks had been congressman from Indiana, 1816–1822;
                        governor of Indiana, 1822–1825; and senator from Indiana, 1825–1837.
               
                  72 Hendricks had been the prime mover in obtaining federal authorization
                        and support for the canal. See Hill, "William Hendricks' Political Circulars
                        to his Constituents: First Senatorial Term, 1825–1831,"
                    129–30.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Booth Tarkington. By Keith J. Fennimore. (
                        New York
                    : Twayne Publishers, Inc., 1974. Pp. 167. Notes and references, selected bibliography,
                    index. $6.50.)
            This brief volume, part of the Twayne 
                        United States
                     Authors Series, is a literary study of Newton Booth Tarkington (1869–1946),
                    whom the author asserts is in need of reassessment. Criticized because he adhered "to a
                    constant attitude toward basic aspects of literature," Tarkington was "a practical
                    idealist who envisioned a gradual merging of tempered materialism and enlightened capitalism which
                    would result in a progressively higher standard of living for all" (p. 7–8).
                    "A Howellsian Realist," he was a "conservative in a time of
                    liberalization" who ironically became "a rebel against what he considered to be a
                    distressing attack upon formalism and taste in modern literature, an alarming invasion of morality
                    during the Flapper Age, and a depersonalization of the individual in a mechanized society"
                    (preface). Author of over thirty novels, the Hoosier writer recorded late in his life that his
                    peers, perhaps understandably, judged him "a complacent old gentleman" (p. 144).
                    He had none of William Dean Howells' misgivings about lifelong adherence to the literary
                    principles of the genteel tradition and cherished an "indomitable optimism"
                    intended to "lift the human spirit" (pp. 141, 142).
            In organizing his case Fennimore stresses Tarkington's formative years, his
                    "practical idealism" after use of regional and historical romance, his reliance on
                    characterization, his special contribution to juvenile literature, and his place among American
                    writers. The author's seven chapters are divided into numerous subtopics. Such a format is
                    distracting, as is the writer's imprecise or obscure prose. The author seems to assume that
                    his audience has read much Tarkington and that the reader understands such concepts as
                    "practical idealism" (p. 59) and "selective realism" (p. 47).
                    The work, intended as a literary study and not a biography, relies heavily on secondary sources,
                    particularly one by James Woodress. More use of Tarkington papers, or at least Tarkington novels,
                    could have been made. It is distressing that the author admits that the best work on his subject has
                    already been written by Woodress, thus raising the question as to why another book is needed.
            
            What is more bothersome is the writer's uncritical account of Tarkington. Perhaps that
                    results from his feeling that the nation needs the inspirational qualities of his subject (p. 142).
                    Whether such qualities make one an artist is another matter. Tarkington rejected thorough going
                    realism because "a thing is not art if a pinch of dirt is deliberately added to make it
                    sell" (p. 133) and naturalism because it was "inimical to his artistic
                    temperament, as well as to his religious ideals" (p. 31). Whether his novels provided a
                    significant amount of realism is debatable, particularly since entertainment and humor were basic to
                    them. Tarkington's professed aversion to the writer's exploiting the public seems
                    weakened by the remark that he was "an astute judge of both the literary mart and popular
                    taste" (p. 80), and by the fact that all but one of his novels were first serialized in a
                    periodical. A millionaire from his writings, he judged "monetary success [as] the
                    justifiable product of professional craftsmanship" (p. 48). Tarkington felt a writer was
                    obliged to lift the human spirit, not to right wrongs. The frequent reference to Tarkington as a
                    craftsman also undermines the author's claim as to his subject's creativity (pp.
                    48, 78, for example).
            In sum, Fennimore presents a picture of a skilled writer who, although touching upon social concerns,
                    was neither realist nor naturalist. Tarkington is lauded because of his popular appeal, as judged by
                    book sales, as well as for that "practical idealism" which "would stand
                    us in good stead in a none-too-brave new world" (p. 142). Fennimore presents a case for his
                    subject as a talented writer who provided entertaining and uplifting literature and offered
                    occasional glimpses of the influence of industrialization and urbanization in the Middle West. None
                    of this convinces one, however, to think of Tarkington as an artist.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               The Dean: A Biography of A. A. Potter. By Robert B. Eckles. (
                        West Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University, 1974. Pp. xi, 172. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            The term "dean," as well as the educational role once identified by it, has
                    recently lost some of the aura with which it was once surrounded. This is a natural result of the
                    massive  expansion of universities and the proliferation of
                    their once simple but functional governance structure. It is clear, however, that the dean depicted
                    in this book held office back in an era when deans were truly deans.
            Andrey A. Potter served as dean of the Division of Engineering at 
                        Kansas
                     State College (Manhattan) from 1913 to 1920 and then went to Purdue University where he
                    held the position of dean of the Schools of Engineering until his formal retirement in 1953. At
                    neither institution was Potter merely a presider, office holder, or passive administrator; rather he
                    was a catalyst for building, an inspirational leader, and the personification of a gentleman
                    professor. Clearly he excelled in all three of the categories for which the performance of
                    university professionals are allegedly judged (teaching, research, and service). It is men like
                    Potter whose exemplary record gave rise to these performance criteria.
            As summarized by Professor Eckles, Potter's life and career read like a Horatio Alger novel.
                    Just prior to his sixteenth birthday the future dean journeyed—alone—to the 
                        United States
                     from 
                        Vilna
                    , Russia. His family had early recognized and nurtured his versatile interests, among
                    which were history, poetry, languages, science, and music. "He narrowly escaped becoming a
                    child musical prodigy" (p. 6), but his real lodestar was America's Benjamin
                    Franklin. When he stepped off the train at North Station in 
                        Boston
                     in 1897, he learned "that Benjamin Franklin was not in residence" (p.
                    8), but he quickly adjusted to the situation by gaining admission to "
                        Boston
                     Tech," today's 
                        Massachusetts
                     Institute of Technology. There he received a sound curricular basis for what would be a
                    remarkable professional career.
            This background and his subsequent experience with the General Electric Company in 
                        Schenectady
                     were vital components in Potter's career preparation, but these alone did not
                    create the dean. In molding his career Potter made full use of many, many talents, some of which
                    were congenital, others of which he learned and cultivated in his adopted country. He personified
                    the engineer-scientist, and at times the managerial entrepreneur. But the dean's prime
                    quality was his ability to lead and inspire through personal example. This best accounts for his
                    successes in the instructional laboratory, for his administrative effectiveness, and for the
                    deserving accolades he received from his professional contemporaries at Purdue and elsewhere
                    throughout the nation.
            
            Undoubtedly many persons have helped pave the way for Purdue University's current status of
                    greatness, but this biographical account provides convincing evidence that Dean A. A. Potter was
                    among those at the forefront of this development. And although this account is not a model of
                    biographical scholarship, it does provide interesting insights about Purdue University as an
                    evolving institution and the role that personal leadership has had in this development.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Kokomo
                        
                Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               Banks or No Banks: The Money Issue in Western Politics, 1832–1865. By
                    William Gerald Shade. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1972. Pp. 328. Tables, maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $15.95.)
            As Shade notes in his introduction, historians have presented conflicting interpretations about
                    "western banking" in the 
                        United States
                    . He suggests that Frederick Jackson Turner viewed currency inflation and wildcat
                    banking as frontier phenomenon, but later pointed out the significant increase of state banks in the
                    thirties and the antibank movement which followed in most states. In Shade's words, Bray
                    Hammond contended that "opposition to banks and monetary expansion typified the
                    agricultural West and that the push for easy money was more closely related to the needs of business
                    enterprise" (p. 13). 
                        Hammond
                     considered western emphasis on state banking monopolies immediately preceding the Panic
                    of 1837, its strong antibank sentiment in the forties, and the development of free banking in the
                    fifties "as responses to the area's changing economic structure" (p. 13).
                    More recently, Shade notes, James Roger Sharp argued "that the conflict over banks after
                    1837 reflected the true nature of Jacksonian democracy and the essential difference between the
                    parties in the following decade" (p. 14).
            Shade states: "Nowhere was the contest over banks more bitterly fought than in the rapidly
                    growing states of … 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    " (p. 11). Suggesting that before the Panic of 1837 "neither free
                    banking nor wildcat banks … were common" in the Old Northwest, Shade concludes
                    that this panic "accelerated the polarization of attitudes on the bank issue as parties
                    emerged more distinctly in the late 1830s" (p. 15). Then in the forties Democrats became
                         increasingly against banks and generally opposed free
                    banking in the fifties, while the Whigs, unable to obtain a national bank, became proponents of free
                    banking. The Republicans espoused free banking in the fifties and then secured its nationalization,
                    against vigorous Democratic opposition, with the creation of national banks during the sixties.
            Shade explains this polarization between parties in the Old Northwest on the basis of underlying
                    social and cultural cleavages. Though considering economic influences, he insists that the basic
                    "conflict" was "between the Yankee-Protestants in the Whig and Republican
                    parties" versus "an ethnically and religiously diverse" Democratic party
                    which "combined enthusiasm for cultural pluralism with vicious antiblack racism"
                    (p. 253). But Shade's evidence for this thesis is not substantial enough to be convincing.
                    To credit the triumph which free banking gained from the Indiana Constitution of 1851 and the free
                    banking law of 1852 to the Whigs and Republicans is surprising in view of the lopsided dominance
                    which the Democrats had of the convention and legislature which authorized same. Though Indiana
                    Whigs and Republicans were doubtless more homogeneous than their Democratic rivals, no Hoosier party
                    could then have garnered a viable majority from "Yankee-Protestants" nor did the
                    Democrats have any monopoly on "vicious antiblack racism." Nevertheless, this
                    volume adds much useful information and important perspectives about banking in the Old Northwest.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Henry B. Fuller of 
                            Chicago
                        : The Ordeal of a Genteel Realist in Ungenteel America. By Bernard R. Bowron,
                    Jr. Contributions in American Studies, Number 11. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1974. Pp. xxvi, 278. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $12.50.)
            Henry Blake Fuller (1857–1929) was a writer of considerable interest to anyone concerned
                    with the development of American fiction in the decades around the turn of the century. In addition,
                    Fuller's divided allegiance to Europe and America—particularly to a
                    "refined" but decadent 
                        Italy
                     and a "raw" but vital 
                        Chicago
                    —typifies the American artist's ambivalent attitude toward the
                    values of the old world and the new. Literary critics and historians like Van Wyck  Brooks, Granville Hicks, Alfred Kazin, Larzer Ziff, and Edmund Wilson
                    have found much to admire in Fuller's work; indeed, Wilson suggested that one of the short
                    stories might well be required reading for a course in American history, so concisely did it capture
                    an important shift in national attitudes. By all odds, Fuller should years ago have been the subject
                    of the full length portrait Bowron has given us here, and Henry B. Fuller of 
                            Chicago
                        
                makes an important contribution to an understanding of American literature
                    during a period of sweeping change.
            Bowron, whose research on Fuller began nearly thirty years ago, is clearly convinced of his
                    subject's importance, maintaining that among other things the 
                        Chicago
                     writer was the "first novelist fully conscious of the need to make use of the
                    post-Civil War American city as material for art—and capable of doing
                    so" (p. xv). Though he acknowledges the difficulty of providing precise biographical
                    information about the reclusive Fuller and claims that his study "will not concern itself
                    with personal history as such but with a way of life and the special quality of the literature which
                    that way of life produced" (p. xxv), Bowron nonetheless presents as detailed an account of
                    Fuller's life as is likely to appear for some time. This carefully researched
                    "personal history" is based largely on Fuller's own diaries and letters,
                    as well as on the recollections of relatives and friends. Furthermore, Bowron indicates the
                    "special quality" of Fuller's work by his critical appraisals of
                    individual titles and their relationship to the so called 
                        Chicago
                     Renaissance and to the mainstream of American literary and intellectual history.
            Since the poverty of published research on Fuller forced Bowron to concentrate on assimilating the
                    known information (widely scattered in sources spanning a century), he had little opportunity to
                    investigate the more obscure corners of Fuller's life and career. For example, nothing is
                    said of Fuller's alleged homosexuality (first mentioned by Wilson only as recently as
                    1970), nor is there much emphasis on Fuller's later years. Most of the book deals with
                    Fuller's life to 1900, with just thirty-five pages allocated to the last four decades of
                    his life—years that saw the publication of nearly half his creative output. One feels
                    that more attention might have been paid to later, frankly experimental works like the 1918 novel
                        On the Stairs or to Fuller's achievement as a  literary critic in the 1920s. But if one is inclined to object that Henry B. Fuller of 
                            Chicago
                        
                fails to break such new ground, this intelligent survey compensates with its
                    assimilation of materials—an accomplishment which will certainly provide the basis for
                    further studies of a neglected writer whose "ordeal," as Bowron shows us, was at
                    once so intensely personal and so characteristically American.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Champaign
                  -
                            Urbana
                        
                Jeffrey Swanson
         
         
            
               The Holy Experiment: A Novel About the Harmonist Society. By Lois T. Henderson.
                    Foreword by Josephine M. Elliott. (
                  Hicksville,
                            N. Y.
               : Exposition Press, 1974. Pp. 237.
                    $7.50.)
            The title calls this book a novel; the dust jacket bills it as a "fascinating historical
                    account"; the author's statement of dedication denotes it "a novel
                    … based on history." A statement in the foreword by Josephine M. Elliott,
                    archivist, Indiana State University, 
                        Evansville
                    , most aptly describes the fictionalized narrative: a "story of a sweet and
                    poignant romance" (p. 7). The author's preface asserts that the characters of this
                    story mainly "were all real people, but their lives bear the mark of fiction" (p.
                    9). In addition Henderson explains: "Several minor incidents and one major event (the
                    attempted elopement of Gertrude Rapp) are based on the author's imagination and/or the
                    faded remnants of old rumors. Almost all other events in the story are based on fact" (p.
                    9). The heroine of this story is Hildegarde Mutschler, a real person whose life is essentially
                    accurately portrayed here. The author's introduction closes by noting the significance of
                    this book about Hildegarde: "And those who loved her watched and held their breath, not
                    quite sure how she would be blown by the winds which buffeted her with such contrary
                    forces" (p. 13).
            This review quotes heavily from the book in order to demonstrate what seems to be a conflict in
                    conception and purpose. The apparatus of four prefatory statements and an afterword (p. 237) go far
                    in trying to create the impression of an historical account. This is not to minimize the amount of
                    research the author has done to establish the framework for this story, but in no way can this story
                    be considered an  "historical account of" or
                    even "A Novel About the Harmonist Society." The events of the history of Father
                    George Rapp's Harmonist Society—real and imagined—serve basically one
                    purpose, as a vehicle for the presentation of the inner conflict of Hildegarde Mutschler. Events and
                    people generally are presented as Hildegarde's perception of them and interpreted in terms
                    of her. There are glimpses of Harmonist life accurately portrayed, but this is in reality a romantic
                    tale about a young woman torn between the celibate life of the Harmonists and life with a husband
                    and children. Many women would agree with the author's (Hildegarde's) reasoning
                    and her ultimate choice. Considered in these terms the story is a success. In addition the book is
                    very readable.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Pamela J. Bennett
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln: His Story in His Own Words. Edited by Ralph Geoffrey Newman.
                            (
                  Garden City, N. Y.
               : Double-day & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. 117.
                    Frontispiece, notes, bibliographies, index. $6.95.)
            Ralph Newman has searched Lincoln's autobiographical observations, arranged them
                    chronologically, and provided transitions and notes. The result is a very brief account, revealing
                    Lincoln's genius for precise phrasing as well as his modesty, humor, and tragic sense of
                    life. Some quotations have contemporary relevance. "I thought the act of sending an armed
                    force among the Mexicans," Lincoln said of President James K. Polk, "was unconstitutional, because the power of levying war is vested in Congress, and not
                    in the President" (p. 40). After the unsuccessful contest with Stephen Douglas in 1858,
                    Lincoln announced: "The cause of civil liberty must not be surrendered at the end of one, or even one hundred defeats" (p. 49). Newman fails
                    to include Lincoln's opposition to suffrage for blacks and his parenthetical support for
                    woman's suffrage during his campaign for the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature in 1836: "I go for admitting all whites to the right of suffrage,
                    who pay taxes or bear arms, (by no means excluding females.)"*
            
            
               
                  * Roy P. Basier, ed., Collected Words of Abraham
                            Lincoln (8 vols., 
                            New Brunswick
                        , N. J., 1953), I, 48.
            
            
            Scholars will find nothing new, but general readers will be engrossed with the familiar eloquence of
                    Lincoln's sparse prose. He went to school "by littles"; his store
                    "winked out"; his marrying was "a matter of profound wonder."
                    His election to Congress, he said, "has not pleased me as much as I expected" (p.
                    39). After assuming a task "greater than that which rested upon 
                        Washington
                    " (p. 60), he wished that "war was an easier and pleasanter business
                    than it is; but it does not admit of holidays" (p. 73). Responding to a serenade after 
                        Appomattox
                    , he asked the band to play "Dixie," claiming it as "our
                    lawful prize" (p. 90). That same week, like those heroes memorialized at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , he paid "the last full measure of devotion" (p. 92).
            
               Indiana, University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Tennessee
                        : The Dangerous Example, Watauga to 1849. By Mary French Caldwell. (
                        Nashville
                    : 
                        Aurora
                     Publishers, Inc., 1974. Pp. xv, 384. Illustrations, maps, selected bibliography,
                    appendixes, notes, index. $11.95.)
            Mary French Caldwell is an enthusiastic history buff with a "lifelong devotion to her 
                        Tennessee
                     homeland" (p. ix) who has attempted in 
                  
                            Tennessee
                        : The Dangerous Example to write a popular account of the exciting early years
                    of her state's history. Regrettably, the result does not do justice to her obvious good
                    intentions.
            With the lack of discrimination that has become characteristic of the bicentennial celebration, the
                    chairman of the 
                        Tennessee
                     American Revolution Bicentennial Commission praises this book as "an eloquent
                    narrative" which was "thoroughly and profoundly researched" (p. xi). The
                    eloquence, however, would have been better ascribed to George Bancroft, long sections of whose History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , written during the nineteenth century, infiltrate 
                        Caldwell
                    's narrative at frequent intervals, as do equally lengthy selections from the
                    works of various only slightly less eloquent 
                        Tennessee
                     historians of the same century. It is unfortunate that in the writing which connects
                    the well rounded phrases of those venerable authors 
                        Caldwell
                     was unable to free her own prose from the well worn stereotypes and stock phrases of
                    historical romance. Her Indians, for example, never hide,  wait,
                    or spy; they "lurk" (pp. 72, 135, 247). They also "go on the
                    warpath" (p. 102), where they engage in "drenching the frontiers with the
                    blood" of the settlers (p. 32) and setting the South "aflame" with horror
                    (p. 249). The settlers—"hardy" (p. 22), "plain" and
                    "unassuming" (p. 3)—who find haven in "the trackless
                    west" and form "the backbone of the westward movement" (p. 16) go
                    "about the business of forming a permanent government with one hand and defending
                    themselves from the Indians with another" (p. 185), all the while observing "the
                    little amenities which, from the beginning, have made the social life of the South so gracious and
                    charming" (p. 207). As deplorable as this surfeit of cliche are the occasions when the
                    narrative stumbles into factual error (John Adams was not president during the Genet Affair [p.
                    219]), semantic error ("revolting," as in "
                        North Carolina
                    's revolting western counties" [p. 166], is not a synonym for
                    "rebelling"), and unintentional humor (the life of a man who died of knife wounds
                    "was cut short prematurely" [p. 321]).
            As for 
                        Caldwell
                    's research, it is impossible to describe as profound and thorough an effort
                    which did not extend to examining manuscript materials, scholarly journal articles, or recent
                    monographs. Of the 129 items in her bibliography, including even Parson Weems' biography of
                    George Washington, only four books (two of them 
                        Caldwell
                    's own), two collections of published documents, and a Life
                    magazine article were written after 1950. In effect this book was a quarter century old even before
                    it was published.
            Apparently assuming that general readers do not appreciate accuracy and felicity of expression, some
                    academic reviewers excuse deficiencies in scholarship, writing, and unfamiliarity with current
                    interpretations in authors writing for the mass audience. Nevertheless, readers who do look for
                    something more than exuberance and worthy motives in historical writing will find little of profit
                    in 
                  
                            Tennessee
                        : The Dangerous Example.
            
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald E. Baker
         
         
         
            
               Three Centuries of Social Mobility in America. Edited with an introduction by
                    Edward Pessen. (
                        Lexington
                    , Mass.: D. C. Heath and Company, 1974. Pp. xxii, 313. Tables, figures, bibliographical
                    essay. Paperbound, $3.95.)
            The sixteen essays in this anthology examine the past and present fluidity of the American social
                    structure. The selections are arranged by broad, chronological divisions: the colonial and
                    Revolutionary periods, the "Era of the Common Man," the "Early Industrial
                    Era" (1860–1900), and the twentieth century. The essays were written during a
                    twenty-four year span and the authors, scholars in different disciplines, employ a variety of
                    sources and methodologies.
            William Reavis and Russell Menard both examine social mobility in colonial 
                        Maryland
                    . Reavis shows that an English commoner could achieve a significant improvement in his
                    status simply by boarding a ship for the colony. "Shipboard mobility" offered an
                    easier path than a slow climb "through the ranks." Menard's study
                    indicates that until approximately 1660 indentured servants often became men of means and position
                    shortly after their contract expired. After that year, however, there was a "general
                    constriction of opportunity" (p. 31) as both population and competition increased.
            Those familiar with the editor's published works during the past decade will not be
                    surprised that he characterizes the "Era of the Common Man" as one of
                    "surprising immobility." In passages reprinted from his recent article in the American Historical Review Pessen argues that "the antebellum decades
                    were featured by an inequality that surpasses anything experienced by the 
                        United States
                     in the twentieth century" (pp. 118–19). Stuart Blumin adds credence
                    to this idea with his discovery that 
                        Philadelphia
                    's wealth distribution on the eve of the Civil War indicated "a
                    society of extreme economic stratification" (p. 91).
            Frances W. Gregory and Irene D. Neu demonstrate that the typical industrial leader of the 1870s did
                    not rise from rags to riches solely on the strength of hard work and clean living. Indeed, he
                    probably never wore rags at all. Chances were good that he had been "born and bred in an
                    atmosphere in which business and a relatively high social standing were intimately associated with
                    his family life" (p. 188). Examining the other end of the social scale, Stephan Themstrom
                         shows that intergenerational mobility among laborers in
                    late nineteenth century 
                  Newburyport, Massachusetts
               , was steady but modest. Upward
                    movement within the working class constituted the most common form of social
                    advance.
            The essays in the final section, dealing with the twentieth century, are written by sociologists.
                    Included are Gordon Lewis' examination of "The Backgrounds and Careers of Small
                    Businessmen in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               " and a summary of Otis D. Duncan and Peter
                    M. Blau's detailed analysis of occupational mobility in contemporary America.
            It is unclear for what audience this book is intended. Undergraduate history majors are likely to
                    find some of the sociologists too technical, while their peers in sociology will object to the
                    relative lack of sophistication of the historians' treatments. Graduate students and
                    researchers in the field will find the volume's utility severely limited as a result of the
                    editor's (or publisher's) regrettable decision to delete the footnotes to all the
                    essays. Still, the material collected here does provide a useful introduction to the questions which
                    have been asked regarding American social structure. Interested students may find their way to the
                    plethora of additional literature on the subject by consulting the editor's bibliographical
                    essay.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert G. Barrows
         
         
            
               Charles C. Rich: Mormon General and Western Frontiersman. By Leonard J.
                    Arrington. (
                  Provo, Utah
               : Brigham Young University Press, 1974. Pp. xvii, 386. End maps,
                    illustrations appendix, bibliography and notes, index. $7.50.)
            From his acceptance of the teachings of Joseph Smith until his death, Charles C. Rich played a
                    prominent role in the development of Mormonism. A biography of Rich was published in 1936, but it is
                    now out of print. In addition, new material relating to the life of this important Mormon leader was
                    uncovered by members of the Rich family. This prompted the author to undertake the task of writing a
                    new biography. Professor Arrington has depicted a deeply religious man who was always willing to
                    sacrifice his own welfare for the betterment of the whole Mormon flock.
            Rich emerges as an example of a dedicated leader who rarely questioned the wisdom of the dictates of
                    Brigham  Young. As chapters reveal the life of Rich, the reader
                    can observe the growing pains of the young Mormon church. From his part in the establishment of a
                    Mormon colony in 
                        California
                     to his mission to aid European Mormons, Rich made a significant contribution to the
                    eventual success of many Mormon dreams. Even the disappointment of failures seems part of a pattern
                    designed to test the mettle of this courageous frontiersman.
            The author examines the institution of plural marriage with much understanding and compassion. The
                    incredible obstacles confronting Rich as he attempted to provide for his family present a saga of
                    courage and faith. Nevertheless, the reader is left with the impression that without the help and
                    cooperation of each of his six wives, the Rich clan would have been hard pressed to maintain any
                    semblance of stability. In effect the book is also a biography of some of his wives. Each of their
                    roles, so important in the total picture of the life of this remarkable man, is brought out in some
                    detail.
            A number of illustrations bring an additional dimension to the book. Well documented, the volume will
                    be useful to the serious scholar. A reasonable price, sturdy binding, and good craftsmanship make
                    this work one which will stand the tests of time, economy, and heavy usage. Volume one of the Series
                    Studies in Mormon History published by the Brigham Young University Press under the editorship of
                    James B. Allen, this biography of Rich is a worthy contribution to the growing knowledge of the
                    leaders of the early Mormon church and their important contributions to the development of the
                    American frontier. This volume should be on the bookshelf of scholars and general readers interested
                    in the history of the Mormons in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                  
                            Missouri
                         Southern State College, Joplin Robert E. Smith
         
         
            
               Indians and Bureaucrats: Administering the Reservation Policy During the Civil
                    War. By Edmund Jefferson Danziger, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1974. Pp. x, 240. Notes, map, bibliography, index. $8.95.)
            When writing about the Civil War era, historians often focus on the war itself and neglect other
                    matters of national importance, particularly Indian affairs. This is unfortunate  because the Civil War was not only a period of strife between
                    northerner and southerner but also one between red man and white. The policy of concentrating the
                    tribes on reservations, begun in the 1850s, had not worked as well as federal officials believed.
                    The Indians feared federal motives and seethed with discontent, but most realized they were helpless
                    to stop the surge of white settlement. With the outbreak of the Civil War conditions changed. The 
                        United States
                     substantially reduced western garrisons and focused its military might on crushing the
                    southern rebellion, and many of the Indians seized the opportunity to lash out at encroaching miners
                    and farmers. This was especially true in two areas of the country—
                        Colorado
                     Territory and 
                        Minnesota
                    —where two of the most brutal massacres in 
                        United States
                     history occurred: the Santee Sioux Uprising of 1862 and the Sand Creek Massacre of
                    1864.
            In this well researched and readable book, Professor Danziger provides the first comprehensive
                    analysis of Indian affairs during the Civil War, focusing on the Santee Sioux and the Cheyenne and
                    Arapahoe, who were the victims at Sand Creek. Danziger chose these tribes to demonstrate the
                    difficulty of developing and administering an effective Indian policy that had, at once, to provide
                    for the needs of a settled, progressive, largely agricultural tribe like the Santee and also a means
                    of coping with nomadic and militant tribes like the Cheyenne, who were determined to resist the
                    continual pressure on them to live on reservations. Ironically, the policy that emerged satisfied no
                    one. The patient and peaceful Santee erupted in hopeless rage at land hungry whites and corrupt
                    traders, killing some eight hundred Minnesotans in a few days in August, 1862, whereas white
                    exasperation at controlling such free spirits as the southern Cheyenne and Arapahoe led, in 1864, to
                    the wanton murder of some 450 peaceful villagers by 
                        Colorado
                     volunteers under Colonel John A. Chivington.
            Danziger shows that despite its good intentions the Lincoln administration was preoccupied with the
                    eastern military theater. It left the administration of Indian affairs largely to an understaffed
                    and rather ineffectual Office of Indian Affairs headed by Commissioner William P. Dole, a friend of
                    Lincoln from his 
                        Illinois
                     days. Dole was a skillful administrator but too inexperienced in Indian affairs to cope
                         effectively as head of this far flung and complex
                    department. Still, "deplorable as the Indians' plight was during the early sixties
                    it would have been far worse without the special protection of the Indian Office. The office stood
                    alone between them and utter degradation and annihilation" (p. 206).
            
               National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, 
                            Washington
                        
                Herman J. Viola
         
         
            
               The Country Life Movement in America, 1900–1920. By William L.
                    Bowers. National University Publications, Series in American Studies. Edited by
                    James P. Shenton. (
                  Port Washington, N. Y.
               : Kennikat Press, 1974. Pp. 189. Notes,
                    appendix, bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            This volume surveys the activities, motives, leadership, techniques, and accomplishments of the
                    movement for uplift and efficiency of country life in America during the Progressive Era. The
                    research was based most extensively on magazine articles but also on much work with manuscript
                    collections and public papers such as the Liberty Hyde Bailey papers at Cornell University and the
                    1909 Report of the Country Life Commission.
            
            Bowers' central thesis, restated at the conclusion of each chapter on the movement, is that
                    country life reformers were victims of a characteristic American schizophrenia. On one hand they
                    looked back to the mythical virtues of an agrarian utopia, rooted in the goodness of nature and
                    productive of sturdy individualism. On the other hand, they saw the needs of scientific
                    industrialized agriculture in a market economy. Incapable of building a coherent ideology, the
                    movement foundered upon its fundamental contradiction. The thesis is not new, but Bowers pulls
                    together a good deal of information which illuminates the problem. Particularly helpful is his
                    collection and analysis of biographical data on a representative sample of country life leaders. The
                    eighty-four persons on his final list, trimmed from an original 150, were well educated,
                    comfortable, secure nonfarmers. The status and motives of these midwesterners are basically in
                    accord with George E. Mowry's 
                  
                            California
                         Progressives (1951).
            Some readers will question whether Bowers really earns the right to be so critical, and at times
                    almost contemptuous, of his double minded reformers. Should one criticize the  movement for not bringing actual farmers into leadership positions
                    without making clear what these farmers might have contributed to the movement's ideology
                    or program? Exactly how could the movement have been more creative or productive of helpful change
                    if it had abandoned the agrarian myth and had acknowledged the inevitability of industrialization?
                    When Bowers moves beyond description to criticism, the grounds for his judgments are not examined.
            The book is well organized, usually in topical rather than chronological fashion. The promise in the
                    title that the story will include the impact of World War I and the immediate postwar period (to
                    1920) is not fulfilled. The writing is usually clear but seldom vivid or distinguished. This volume
                    sketches in more completeness one significant corner of the Progressive movement, but it falls
                    somewhat short in interpretive insight.
            
               Bethel College, North Newton, Kan. James Juhnke
         
         
            
               Hutterite Society. By John A. Hostetler. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1974. Pp. xvi, 403. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    charts, tables, appendixes, selected bibliography, index. $14.00.)
            With the publication of Hutterite Society, which is the fruit of fifteen years of
                    research, John A. Hostetler, noted authority on the Amish, now also becomes the leading authority on
                    the Hutterites. For a long time to come scholars will likely consider this volume in the
                    "definitive" category.
            The author, a sociologist, gives an excellent account of the social and cultural organization of
                    Hutterite society, together with a full historical background. The latter is necessary because a
                    "knowledge of the history of the Hutterites and of how they incorporate the past into the
                    present is central to understanding" their society (p. xiii). The Hutterites stem from the
                    pacifist Anabaptist wing of the Reformation, and the characteristic which chiefly distinguishes them
                    from other Anabaptists is their emphasis on communal living.
            The author authoritatively discusses their origins in the 1520s in southern 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Austria
                     and their migrations, usually because of severe persecution, to Moravia,
                            
                  Slovakia, Hungary
               , Rumania, Russia, and finally to the 
                        United States
                    
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . During a "golden age" in Moravia in the latter half of the sixteenth
                    century they prospered and became so skilled as artisans and craftsmen, especially in pottery
                    making, that, unlike their system in North America, agriculture was only one of their many economic
                    activities. Disturbed over the curtailment of their religious liberties in Russia during the 1870s,
                    Hutterites emigrated to the area which became the state of South Dakota. In North America the
                    Hutterites prospered, and, almost exclusively through internal growth, have increased from a few
                    hundred in 1874 to twenty-two thousand today. These figures apply only to those who had revived
                    communal living in Russia after having abandoned it for several decades in the nineteenth century.
                    About an equal number of noncommunal Hutterites came and generally joined various Mennonite groups.
            Hostetler ably discusses their adaptation to the North American environment, their social and
                    cultural organizations and problems of colony living, their harassment and persecution as
                    conscientious objectors during World War I—two of them actually died as a result of their
                    treatment at 
                        Fort Leavenworth
                    —the migration of most of them to 
                        Canada
                     as a result, and the return of some of these to the 
                        United States
                     years later when a saner atmosphere prevailed.
            A number of scholars have told many parts of the story before, but none has put them together, along
                    with the sociological analysis, as completely and objectively as has this author. His indebtedness
                    to previous writers in the field and the scholarly character of his work are indicated in the
                    copious footnotes, the essay on "Hutterite Historiography," and his twenty pages
                    of bibliography.
            This reviewer has little to offer in the way of adverse criticism. Though conscious of the newer
                    trend toward emphasizing the "polygenesis" origins of Anabaptism rather than the
                    "monogenesis," he would question whether the Hutterites were as "distinct
                    historically" from the Swiss Brethren as Hostetler claims (p. 8). The statement that the
                    "council makes all major decisions" (p. 162), might be misleading. It does so, as
                    the author later points out, under the direction of the church. Excellent photographic illustrations
                    add to the value of this important work.
            
               
                  
                            Goshen
                         College, 
                            Goshen
                        , Ind. Willard H. Smith
         
         
         
            
               Progressivism and Economic Growth: The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Income Tax, 1911–1929. By W. Elliot Brownlee, Jr. National University Publications, Series in American Studies. (
                  Port Washington, N.
                    Y.
               : Kennikat Press, 1974. Pp. 154. Tables, note on sources, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            This study, which still has the flavor of the doctoral dissertation from which it sprang, concerns
                    the impact of state tax policy on the economy of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Brownlee seeks to discover whether the state income tax (passed in 1911) promoted or
                    retarded economic growth in that state. But the study's focus is not limited to an economic
                    question. It also concerns the political cauldron within which the income tax was formulated,
                    executed, and retained. The author successfully places his work within the frame of the
                    historiography of progressivism, including the ideas of Richard Hofstadter, Samuel Hays, and Robert
                    Wiebe.
            Brownlee's conclusion is that the state income tax had a detrimental effect on the growth of
                    manufacturing and made 
                        Wisconsin
                     less attractive for investment capital. In seeking to explain why the state would adopt
                    such an unbusinesslike strategy, Brownlee emphasizes two factors: the political power and
                    aspirations of the farmers and the political weakness and naivete of the manufacturers. The 
                        Wisconsin
                     farmer sought to use the state tax system to create what the author calls an
                    "agricultural service state." Using Jacksonian and populist rhetoric about
                    redistributing wealth by tax reform, the Republican farmers really sought a Hamiltonian governmental
                    order which provided aid for agriculture in the new industrial system. Brownlee's
                    conclusion on the motives of these "reformers" agrees with the findings of Hays in
                    explaining progressivism in terms of interest group behavior. The agricultural service state would
                    help the small, specialized 
                        Wisconsin
                     farmer cope with his new position within a national economy.
            The manufacturing interest could not avoid subsidizing the farmer. Numerically small and politically
                    weak, manufacturers made matters worse by demonstrating an uncompromising opposition to taxation.
                    They failed to seek out common ground with other nonfarming political factions and remained
                    isolated. In 1928 when they had some hopes of relief with the election of Walter Kohler, a
                    manufacturer, to the governor's office, the crash and depression arrived to unify all
                    progressive elements.
            
            The author contributes to the historiography of progressivism, but his conclusion that the
                    "progressive tax policy was irrational" (p. 95) appears overdrawn. The case for
                    the irrationality of the income tax rests primarily on the author's reiteration that such a
                    tax hindered economic growth in the state. So frequently does the author press this point that it
                    takes on the aroma of special pleading. Yet how unreasonable was it for the farmers to promote a
                    policy which fostered their economic growth, even if industrial development in the state was slowed?
                    Only if one accepts Brownlee's identification of economic progress with industrial growth
                    does the farm tax policy appear "irrational." The author's conclusion
                    imposes upon the citizens of 
                        Wisconsin
                     a value scheme that most of them did not share. The vast majority of citizens of the
                    state were farmers whose idea of the good state reflected their economic position. To accuse them of
                    irrationality because they did not share the vision of industrialists, who, the author admits, had
                    their own narrow view of profit maximization, seems unfair.
            The book also suffers from a number of other weaknesses. The first chapter reads like an excerpt from
                    a textbook in economics. Indeed, the entire study lacks the historical flavor which comes from
                    concentration on human beings rather than abstract groups and economic trends. The publishers ask
                    ten dollars for this book of ninty-eight pages of text. At that price at least they could put the
                    notes at the bottom of the page instead of the rear of the text.
            
               University of Miami, Coral Gables George Q. Flynn
         
         
            
               Mother Was a Lady: Self and Society in Selected American Children's
                        Periodicals, 1865–1890. By R. Gordon Kelly. Contributions in
                        American Studies, Number 12. Edited by Robert H. Walker. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1974. Pp. xx, 233. Illustrations, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            A study of Gilded Age periodicals for children, R. Gordon Kelly recognizes, tells far more about
                    adults than about young people. Self in the subtitle of this monograph refers to
                    the authors and publishers of five periodicals; Society concerns that small and
                    declining band of New Englanders trying to protect the vestiges of gentry culture against the
                    onslaughts of competitive individualism, unfettered materialism,  and urban industrial development. Kelly has analyzed some of the cultural artifacts of (to borrow
                    words and concepts from Peter Laslett) a "world we have lost."
            The loss, as Kelly knows, came a step at a time. In addition to setting the cultural and intellectual
                    fashions, seventeenth and eighteenth century gentlemen controlled money, office, and status. They
                    were far more interested in disciplining than in liberating the individual, far more committed to a
                    gospel of service than of wealth, and far more concerned to cultivate the wilderness than to
                    manufacture its resources. As founding fathers of a new republic, they favored government by the
                    elected best over rule by the well born, the well heeled, or the average man. But Americans would
                    not long forego the forbidden fruit in their gentry Eden. The glid of the nineteenth century
                    gradually replaced the enlightenment of the eighteenth. Americans increasingly reached for and
                    grasped their seemingly infinite bounty; they migrated incessantly from place to place and station
                    to station; and they came to measure worth largely by wealth. The self made man pushed aside the
                    self controlled; democracy supplanted republicanism; plutocrats superseded natural aristocrats.
                    Mostly shorn of political and economic power in post-Civil War America, the gentry remnants
                    continued to affirm a now socially desiccated culture from their embattled strongholds in the
                    nation's professions, libraries, liberal arts colleges, and publishing houses.
            Choosing to contruct his analysis of the gentry with a number of borrowed conceptual
                    tools—a definition of culture from anthropologists, an approach to imaginative literature
                    from sociologists of knowledge, an application of literary formulas from a specialist in popular
                    culture, and a particular reconstruction of American gentry values and ideas from an intellectual
                    historian—Kelly's medium affects his message. His emphases on culture, social
                    constructions of reality, social functions of literary formulas, and intellectual history all lead
                    him away from an analysis of the objective and material elements of human reality to the subjective
                    and perceptual ones. And his brevity prohibits an adequate integration of his chosen approaches let
                    alone a thorough application of each. For example, Kelly attributes the gentry's
                    concentration upon "strategies of explanation, justification, and reassurance" to
                    "several social factors"—largely associated  with the factory and the city—that threatened the ideal of
                    the gentleman in the Gilded Age (p. 147). (Kelly is, incidently, far more concerned about the gentry
                    in general than he is about the lady in particular.) But his contentions that certain late
                    nineteenth century socioeconomic factors caused expressions of insecurity rely more upon assertion
                    than documentation and pay too little attention to the pervasive sense of precariousness evident in
                    much of the writing of English and American gentlemen since at least the early seventeenth century.
            Despite a Scottish verdict of not proven for some of his suggestions, Kelly has drafted a key chapter
                    in the story of the gradual shift from an aristocratic-republican to a plutocratic-democratic social
                    order, a change that has never been sufficiently thorough to free the latter completely from the
                    former. This may explain why some children cannot find the Hardy Boys series, a contemporary
                    equivalent of Horatio Alger, in the local library.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        
                James L. Cooper
         
         
            
               Consensus, Conflict, and American Historians. By Bernard Sternsher. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1975. Pp. ix, 432. Tables, notes, index. $15.00.)
            It is a well known fact that historical interpretation moves cyclically. What was once the widely
                    accepted view of the past has been revised by the next generation, and the revisionists are soon
                    themselves revised. Such oscillations, of course, reflect another well known characteristic of
                    historiography: the contemporary view of the past derives from present values and problems as much
                    perhaps as from the historian's sources. Some degree of this relativism seems inescapable
                    and may be desirable in terms of interest and usefulness of history.
            In his new study of interpretive currents of the twentieth century, Bernard Sternsher nicely
                    demonstrates these features of the discipline. The progressive historians in the early years of the
                    century wrote about the tensions and conflicts in this country from the colonial period to their own
                    time because they were concerned about the injustice they perceived in an environment of corporate
                    power, human exploitation, and political corruption. By the 1950s, during years of affluence  and comparative stability, the fashion had shifted toward a
                    consensual perspective, with emphasis upon the "givens" of American history, the
                    middle ground of agreement, the rejjection of extremist behavior. As foreign and domestic problems
                    mounted in the 1960s and as activism, even radicalism, recruited younger scholars, the trend in
                    teaching and writing returned to the theme of conflict.
            Throughout the book Sternsher focuses upon the consensus historians, Daniel Boorstin and Louis Hartz,
                    who most systematically and effectively stated the case for American unity and moderation. In fact,
                    as the author says, the positions of the two differed in some respects. Boorstin, as an eminent
                    social historian, concluded there was little ideological conflict because America had little use for
                    ideas and reacted pragmatically to their surroundings. Hartz saw the dynamic importance of ideas but
                    felt that there was a remarkable consensus of thought on this side of the Atlantic because there
                    were no encumbrances of anachronistic feudalism or uncertainty about national ideals.
            In his discussion of conflict historians Sternsher draws upon a wide variety and a large number of
                    recent publications, many of them in related fields of social science. Merely as survey and
                    commentary, this section is valuable. Substantial space is given to the Jacksonian era, to
                    quantitative investigations of social and economic classes by Edward Pessen for example, and to
                    Pessen's findings that there were far less social mobility and political democracy than
                    textbooks depict. Another prominent topic is the New Deal, as one might expect from the biographer
                    of Rexford Tugwell. Here, Sternsher shows a scholarly movement away from the prevalent liberal
                    treatment of Rooseveltian reform toward criticism of its excessive caution and limited
                    accomplishments. He explores the work of New Left historians extensively, many of them Marxian and
                    all of them sympathetic toward the losers, the oppressed, and the agitators of the past.
            Sternsher's judgments are convincing on the whole. His verdict is negative toward Boorstin
                    because of a total retreat from theory, quite positive toward Hartz (who in many instances seems
                    vindicated by recent behavioral studies), and again rather negative toward the New Left because of
                    their propagandistic proclivities and failure to come up with attractive  alternatives. Whether or not one accepts these judgments, the book is a
                    competent foray into the philosophy of history. It may be too intricate and verbose for some tastes,
                    though that could be a congenital infirmity of such writings.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               The Letters of Bernard DeVoto. Edited by Wallace Stegner.
                            (
                  Garden City, N. Y.
               : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. xiv, 393. Notes,
                    index. $10.00.)
            Bernard DeVoto, who died in 1955, was one of the most versatile men of letters of the midcentury.
                    After twelve years of teaching English and American literature at Northwestern and 
                        Harvard
                     universities, he briefly edited the Saturday Review of Literature and
                    contributed the "Easy Chair" to Harper's Magazine,
                    making of the latter a personal forum for his views on literature and ecology. For much of his life
                    he strove to write fiction without ever achieving notable success; indeed he used pseudonyms such as
                    John August when he produced potboilers. He was also a book reviewer, a critic, an essayist, and a
                    highly successful historian. In between editorial stints and research he wrote letters, thousands of
                    them. For the present volume Wallace Stegner has selected 148 of these letters to show the facets of
                    DeVoto's character and his multiple interests.
            These are extraordinary letters by any criterion, but they are not the kind of letters that readers
                    of John Keats, Horace Walpole, or Lord Chesterfield might expect. There is much about
                    DeVoto's education here, almost in the vein of Henry Adams, but almost nothing about his
                    family or domestic life. There is little bantering or day dreaming or even humor; when DeVoto
                    attempted pleasantries, he became elephantine. Occasional autobiographical notes do intrude, to be
                    sure—his obvious chagrin when he was denied a permanent post at 
                        Harvard
                     or his constant assertion that he did not want to become a writer but hoped instead to
                    go into psychiatry.
            Instead there are amazingly long letters about how to write fiction, about accuracy in historical
                    writing, about history, and science, and about the imperative need to save the forest lands and the
                    water resources of the American West. In ordinary correspondent might dismiss these topics in a few
                    hundred words; but DeVoto wrote 3,500 words to Dale Morgan on Mormon history, three thousand words
                    to Harold  Stassen on the conservation of the public domain, six
                    pages to Mae Porter to point out how unreliable her research was, and four pages to Lawrence Kubie
                    on the psychiatric aspects of drama and fiction.
            Undoubtedly these letters were impulsive; yet, they also reveal enormous vitality, a point which
                    Stegner reiterates. They show DeVoto's interest in ideas, in clarity of expression, in
                    factual accuracy. As a letter writer DeVoto was contumacious, vehement, arrogant, and often
                    repetitious. He certainly did not blue pencil his own correspondence although he kept carbon copies.
                    Nor did he hesitate to speak bluntly and scornfully if this was his mood. Van Wyck Brooks, whom he
                    demolished in Mark Twain's America, wrote a silly book. Albert Bigelow
                    Paine's editing of Twain's work was capricious and arbitrary. Ruth
                    Suckow's novel The Folks lacked wit, subtlety, and style; and Edmund
                    Wilson, whom he admired in many ways, could also be humorless, myopic, and idiotically pedantic.
                    Moreover, he thought Thomas Wolfe was a bad novelist with a deleterious effect on younger writers.
            DeVoto knew personally many of the notable scientists, writers, scholars, and public figures of his
                    day, but he wrote extensively to unknowns as well as to celebrities. If there are letters to Adlai
                    Stevenson (whose campaign he supported), Garrett Mattingly, Malcolm Cowley, Elmer Davis, Henry
                    Seidel Canby, Hans Zinsser, Wendell Willkie, and Robert Frost, there are also letters to obscure
                    book reviewers and to earnest students asking for assistance. He gave freely of his time to anyone
                    who professed an interest in his work and showed some ability to recognize and express an idea. Some
                    of the subjects DeVoto espoused were topical and retain little interest today. On the other hand his
                    notions about the writing of fiction and history remain viable.
            Stegner has arranged the letters not chronologically but by subject clusters so that some groups span
                    twenty or more years, a plan that permits the reader to watch DeVoto's development. The
                    editing is concise and generally limited to identifications, although Stegner occasionally points
                    out inconsistencies or obvious misstatements. There are only a few minor slips: Douglas Freeman has
                    the wrong first name, Frances Densmore's last name is misspelled, and Stegner speaks
                    carelessly of the University of Indiana.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  
                John T. Flanagan
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
