
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 71, Issue 2, pages 103-204. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:71+issue:2+year:1975&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A 
                        Delaware
                     Indian's Reservation: Samuel Cassman vs. Goldsmith C. Gilbert
            Dolores M. Lahrman and Ross S. Johnson*
            
            At St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , on October 3, 1818, commissioners of the 
                        United States
                    , Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, concluded a treaty with the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians.1 In that treaty the 
                        Delaware
                     ceded to the 
                        United States
                     all claim to their tribal lands in the newly formed state of Indiana in return for the
                    promise of a "country to reside in, upon the west side of the 
                        Mississippi
                    " and a guarantee of the "peaceful possession of the same."
                    Special provisions for several members of the tribe not expected to make the trek west were made in
                    Article 7 of the treaty: 
                        One half section of land shall be granted to each of the following persons, namely: Isaac
                            Wobby, Samuel Cassman, Elizabeth Petchaka, and Jacob Dick; and one quarter of a section of
                            land shall be granted to each of the following persons, namely: Solomon Tindell and Benoni
                            Tindell; all of whom are Delawares; which tracts of land shall be located, after the country
                            is surveyed, at the first creek above the old fort on White river, and
                            running up the river; and shall be held by the persons herein named, respectively, and their
                            heirs; but shall never be conveyed or transferred without the approbation of the President
                            of the 
                                United States
                            .2
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  * Dolores M. Lahrman is assistant archivist, Indiana University
                        Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        . Ross S. Johnson is special collections librarian and associate professor of
                        library service, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 The 
                            Delaware
                         cession, part of the federal land acquisition often referred to in Indiana as the
                        New Purchase, included principally most of the territory east and south of the 
                            Wabash
                         not previously relinquished by the Indians. See Logan Esarey, A
                            History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1924), I, 260, 272, facing 375; Baynard Rush Hall, The New
                        Purchase (
                            Princeton
                        , 1916), iii-iv. The 
                            Delaware
                         dwelt in the 
                            Wabash
                         drainage area on sufference of the Miami who extended hospitality to them and other
                        Algonquin. See C. A. Weslager, The 
                                Delaware
                             Indians (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1972), 332; Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1970), 135, 147–48, 177–79.
               
                  2 Charles J. Kappler, ed., Indian Affairs: Laws and
                        Treaties (5 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1904–1941), II, 118–19. The Cassman reserve roughly
                        approximates the present area of Yorktown.
            
            
            According to 
                        Delaware County
                     historians, Samuel Cassman, one of those designated as recipient of a 320 acres, was a
                    half breed.3 Some family sources call him a full blooded Indian of the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe, but the consensus is that he had some Caucasian ancestry.4
                    Cassman family tradition indicates that about 1812 he left 
                  Montreal, Canada
               , with his two
                    brothers, 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton, who settled near 
                  Detroit,
                            Michigan
               , and became prosperous
                        farmers.5 Samuel chose to live in the area which later became 
                        Delaware County
                    , Indiana, though he may have wandered about the northeastern 
                        United States
                     for some time before settling in Indiana.
            Samuel first married a French woman whose name was Elizabeth. The marriage is thought to have taken
                    place in 
                        Canada
                    . Six sons were born of this union: Lathrup, Philander, Ethen, Hampton, Isaac, and 
                        Oregon
                    . Lathrup was born in 1808, some four years before Cassman came into the 
                        United States
                    .6
            
            After Elizabeth's death, Cassman married again.7 His second wife was
                    called Thirza. A 
                        Delaware County
                     document 
                  
                     3 See Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 266; G. W. H. Kemper, A Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 19; Frank D. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), I, 55.
                  
                     4 Cassman family data, unpublished. A compilation embracing both
                            verifiable facts and tradition was made about 1933 by Henrietta Cassman (Mrs. Charles
                            Stallard) of 
                                Lafayette
                            , great granddaughter of Samuel Cassman. It was based on reports made to her by
                            family members, reminiscences, bible entries, newspaper obituaries, and information gleaned
                            from conversations and correspondence. A family tree was developed some years later on the
                            basis of Mrs. Stallard's data by Richard L. Cassman of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , a great, great, great grandson of Samuel Cassman. Copies of the Stallard
                            compilation and of the tree are in possession of the authors, who have also questioned
                            descendants of Samuel Cassman about family matters.
                  
                     5 The presence of large numbers of 
                                Delaware
                             in 
                                Canada
                             is well documented. See Weslager, 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Indians, passim. They settled tribally in the Thames
                            River area, 
                                Ontario
                            , however, not around Montreal.
                  
                     6 Cassman family data. 
                                Delaware County
                             historians, Thomas B. Helm, John S. Ellis, and G. W. H. Kemper state that
                            Cassman's first wife was a Negro woman. They give no source for their information.
                            No mention of a Negress has been found either in documents or correspondence. The children
                            are considered Indians (heirs to the reservation under terms of the treaty), though later in
                            the 1840 census, as "free white persons." French Creoles were often of
                            mixed heritage, however, and black persons were known to have lived among friendly Indian
                            tribes and in the Moravian communities.
                  
                     7 In Our County: Its History and Early Settlement by
                                Townships (
                                Muncie
                            , n.d.), 162, John S. Ellis says that Elizabeth, "died here at their
                            home." Helm, in his History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 266, adds that she
               
                     refers to her as a "free white female."8 No children are known to have been born of this marriage. In the 1840 census
                    she is recorded as being between forty and fifty years of age, while Samuel is between fifty and
                        sixty.9 Lathrup Cassman, in a letter written in 1832, speaks of his father
                    as an old man, though he could not have been more than fifty-two if the census data are accurate.10
            
            No record has been discovered explaining the grant of land to Cassman. There is no indication that he
                    was being rewarded for a service nor that he was related to an Indian chief or scout, as is the case
                    with grants made in some other treaties, notably with the Miami. Nothing has yet come to light about
                    his parentage. Cassman is not listed among the signatories of the treaty at St. Mary's nor
                    in his pleas and petitions to government officials does he ever refer to having done the tribe or
                    the 
                        United States
                     a service.
            Though Cassman may have applied for confirmation of title to his land as early as 1820, the survey
                    stipulated by 
                  "bore him several children [sic], and while he still resided
                            upon the land he owned, she died." In Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 19, Kemper states, "after her death he married
                            again." John Johnston refers to Elizabeth's death but gives no date. See
                            below, p. Ill.
                  
                            
                        8 Certification by William Van Matre, clerk of the 
                                    Delaware County
                                 circuit court, February 24, 1832, that a deed for Cassman's
                                property "was sold and transferred by said Cassman, and Thirza his wife (a free
                                white female) …" Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I,
                                212, Bureau of Indian Affairs, National Archives Record Group No. 75. Copies of over
                                fifty pages of documents and correspondence relating to Cassman have been furnished to
                                the authors through the cooperation of Richard S. Maxwell, Natural Resources Branch,
                                Civil Archives Division, National Archives and Records Service. Record Group No. 75 (re
                                Samuel Cassman) includes: Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I,
                                210–13; II, 295–97; Bureau of Indian Affairs, Land Reserve File A
                                33, Central Correspondence Files, 1907–39, and File No.
                                91441–20–310 General Services. These papers are hereafter cited as
                                National Archives Record Group No. 75, unless otherwise noted.
                            There is a family joke about the tendency of some of the Cassman men to imbibe: they were
                                descended from an Indian woman named "Thirsty" and had been so ever
                                since. Though amusing, this is quite inaccurate. The woman's name was Thirza,
                                not "Thirsty" (though nineteenth century pronunciation may have been
                                closer to "Thirzie"). She probably was not an Indian but a white woman
                                (see note above). Moreover, the son from whom the jokesters were descended was born in
                                1815, prior to the death of Cassman's first wife. They more likely derived
                                their drinking prowess from Cassman than from his wife.
                        
                  
                     9 U.S. Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Delaware County
                            , Indiana, National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 704, Roll 78. Heads of
                            households are identified by name in the 1840 census. Other persons in the household are
                            listed by sex and approximate age.
                  
                     10 Lathrup Cassman to Lewis Cass, January 15, 1832, National Archives
                            Record Group No. 75.
               
                     the treaty was completed only in 1822.11 A
                    patent dated September 10, 1823, granted to Samuel Cassman the north half of section twenty-two, in
                    township twenty, of range nine, in the land district of 
                        Brookville
                    . It differed from the usual patent by stating that in accordance with the provisions of
                    the Treaty of St. Mary's he had "located" the land, and by repeating the
                    treaty prohibition against transfer of the property without approval of the president.12 Patents regularly stated that evidence of payment for the land had been presented.
                    Although Cassman's tract has been called the "first purchase" in Mount
                    Pleasant Township,13 no mention of payment appears in his patent.
            If Cassman selected this particular half section himself, he showed considerable perspicacity. This
                    was rich and desirable land. It is described as having the "White river crossing the
                    northwest part and Buck creek the center, in a northwesterly course, furnishing excellent water
                    power for mill sites, which were in later years utilized."14 Originally
                    a heavy growth of timber covered Mount Pleasant Township creating a rich woodland of oak, walnut,
                    poplar, ash, hickory, maple, beech, and sycamore.15 It would seem that Cassman
                    had reason to expect the possession of such land to bring him respect, comfort, and security; but it
                    soon became a source of anguish to him, partly through his own fault, but largely because of the
                    insatiable hunger of pioneer entrepreneurs to acquire and develop the wilderness lands.
            It seems that Cassman moved onto his property in 1824 or 1825, cleared land, built, and began
                        farming.16 In 1832 
                  
                     11 The 
                                Delaware County
                             Tract Book, [n.p.] (
                                Delaware County
                             Archives, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana), lists a half section of land under Cassman's name with the
                            date 1820 and a reference to the treaty, but the record is obscured by use of ditto marks
                            and the entry is in the form of two 160 acre tracts. Microfilm copy of the 
                                United States
                             Land Office Tract Book (
                                Delaware County
                             Archives), lists Cassman but records "no date" on the date
                            line. Archival materials rescued from the old 
                                Delaware County
                             Courthouse in 1966 by Dr. Althea Stoeckel and assistants, are housed in the
                            Ball State University Library and regularly serviced for the public.
                  
                     12 Deed Record Book, CCXXI, 265 (
                                Delaware County
                             Archives).
                  
                     13 Ellis, Our County, 152–53.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 162.
                  
                     15 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 266. Ellis, Our County, 152, repeats this list of
                            trees verbatim. Ample corroboration of the richness and desirability of the soils, minerals,
                            water supply, topography, and flora is found in Lewis A. Hurst and E. J. Grimes, Soil Survey of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1915).
                  
                     16 Andrew Kennedy to Lewis Cass, January 31, 1835, National Archives
                            Record Group No. 75.
               
                     Lathrup reported that he had been given eighty acres on which
                    he had built a house and made improvements before his father sold the land.17
                    The Cassman name does not appear in the 1830 census of 
                        Delaware County
                    , possibly because Cassman's land was still classified as a reservation
                    (Reserve No. A 33) at that time and, being considered Indian, the family was not enrolled among
                    citizens or taxpayers.18 The 1840 census lists three separate Cassman households
                    headed by Samuel, Lathrup, and Philander, each of whom has agriculture as his occupation.19
            
            Cassman's ambition and industry apparently did not impress some of the white settlers. An
                    assessment of Samuel Cassman, though published much later, is sweepingly denunciatory:
                    "Such facts as are known of him do not honor him in his distinction as the first recorded
                    land owner in this county. He had the Indian thirst for whisky, and had neither the thrift nor
                    industry to develop his land and become a factor of civilization."20
                    Examination of documents, however, seems to reveal the more complex picture of a bewildered Indian
                    trying to cope with official red tape, unresponsive agents, and Jacksonian policies in handling
                    Indian affairs. Cassman was hampered by his poverty, lack of education and business acumen; by the
                    white man's prejudice, greed, and impatience to possess the land; and especially by his own
                    frequent intemperance. Cassman obtained whiskey at stores kept by white men who then hypocritically
                    condemned his use of it.
            One such storekeeper was Goldsmith C. Gilbert, an energetic, shrewd trader born in 
                        New York
                     of 
                        New England
                     ancestry. He arrived in 1823 in the area which became 
                        Delaware County
                    , and eventually established a trading post along the Mississinewa
                    River. This post was burned out by a group of Indians "who had been excited to
                    riotous conduct by the Gilbert brand of whiskey. …"21
                    Compensation for the loss 
                  
                     17 Lathrup Cassman to Lewis Cass, January 15, 1832.
                  
                     18 "Your assistants will also bear in mind to include all
                            persons of a family (except Indians not taxed). …" Instructions to
                            Marshals-Census of 1830(a), in Carroll D. Wright and William C. Hunt, The
                                History and Growth of the 
                                    United States
                                 Census (
                                Washington
                            , 1900), 140.
                  
                     19 U.S. Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Delaware County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     20 Kemper, Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 19.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 104.
               
                     was made with money withheld from Indian annuities. This money
                    purportedly permitted Gilbert to begin systematically buying up Indian reserve lands, starting with
                    the tract granted to Rebecca Hackley under the treaty with the Miami at St. Mary's.22
            
            Gilbert is generally regarded as the founder of 
                        Muncie
                    .23 The two cabins he built on the site were centers for social and
                    governmental activity, and he engaged in a wide variety of activities necessary and beneficial to a
                    pioneer community. He dug a race, operated saw and grist mills, a woolen factory, a dry goods store,
                    a blacksmith shop, a distillery, and a tavern. His promise to donate land to the county was
                    influential in getting Muncietown established as the county seat. Gilbert also served in the state
                        legislature.24
            
            On August 6, 1830, Cassman with Thirza's consent sold his land to Gilbert for five hundred
                        dollars.25 Dickinson Burt, deputy recorder of 
                        Delaware County
                    , certified that the grantors acknowledged the sale to be their voluntary act and that
                    Thirza had been interrogated separately according to law concerning her voluntary role in the
                    transaction by which she relinquished her dower right in the property.26 In
                    spite 
                  
                     22 The treaty with the Miami, October 6, 1818, is found in Kappler,
                                Indian Affairs, II, 119–21. Rebecca Hackley was the
                            granddaughter of Little Turtle, the daughter of William Wells, and the widow of Captain
                            James Hackley, 
                                United States
                             Army. See Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , I, 55–56. The deed, June 13, 1831, transferring her
                            property, indicates some previous arrangement in 1826. Deed Record Book, I, 74. Difficulty
                            in securing payment resulted in a judgment in her favor. Circuit Court Record Book,
                            1829–1842, 61 (
                                Delaware County
                             Archives). Deeds recording sales of the 
                                Delaware
                             Indian reserves exist for the Cassman and the Solomon and Benoni Tindell lands.
                            Deed Record Book, I, 25, 63. On page 32 of the same deed record is found the sale of the
                            Isaac Wobby land by Gilbert, whose letter to Elijah Hayward, May 25, 1835, National Archives
                            Record Group No. 75, claims purchases including the Jacob Dick land from Thomas Dick.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, derives its name from the 
                                Delaware
                             Indians (Muncees), who had settled along White River. The
                            name had various forms: Muncey, Muncy, Munsey, Muncie. Surveyors (1821–1822)
                            indicated on the original plat an Indian settlement in the area as Munsee T. See Haimbaugh,
                                History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , I, 87–88. By the time the county was established in 1827,
                            the form "Muncietown" was commonly used. Later, the name was changed to 
                                Muncie
                            . See "An Act to change the name of Muncietown," Indiana, Local Laws (1844–45), 247.
                  
                     24 At the close of the 1843–1844 session, Gilbert became
                            ill. He died in Pendleton, January, 1844, and was buried in 
                                Muncie
                            . For brief biographical data and a portrait of Gilbert see Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , facing 130.
                  
                     25 Deed Record Book, I, 25. The transaction also appears in the Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I, 210–11. Since much land in 
                                Delaware County
                             was being sold at the government land office for $1.25 an acre at
                            the time, the price of $500 for Cassman's three hundred twenty acres
                            does not seem unreasonable.
                  
                     26 Deed Record Book, I, 25; Land Volume of Indian
                            Deeds, I, 211–12.
               
                     of the resounding terminology of the documents emphasizing the
                    completeness and irrevocability of the transfer, the sale still required the approval of the
                    president for legality.
            Concern felt by the Cassman heirs, none of whom had signed the deed, began to surface.27 Gilbert had paid only a part of the purchase price in chattels and had mortgaged the
                    property for three hundred dollars to be paid to Cassman within eighteen months.28 In the fall of 1831 Lathrup Cassman wrote to John Johnston, who had been Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and later at 
                  Piqua, Ohio
               , the following letter asking for advice and
                    assistance.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Muncy Town
                           
                                    Oct. 23rd 1831
                                
                        Mr John Jonson Sir Being informed that my Father has Contracted the Land away that
                                    Goverment Donated to my Father and his Heirs and it is Contrary to there will that
                                    it Should be Disposed of as ther is Diferant Heirs that will be likely to Sufer if
                                    it is Put out of there hands and as I am not a quainted with the Propper Agent that
                                    acts at this time I wish you to forweed this letter to him, and it is my wish as one
                                    of the Heirs that you will not Rattify the Sale of the Land to Goldsmith C. Gilbert
                                    from my Father and I and all the Rest of the Heirs are intirly unwilling to Sign our
                                    Wright [over?] and we now luck [look] to the Agent to Se us Rited you [know] the
                                    Citizans of 
                                        Delaware County
                                     would be very glad to git the Property out of our hands if they Could
                                    and they will be very apt to Do it if the Agent Dos not Protect it for us you Mr
                                    Jonson will Due me a grate Kindness to con duct this letter to the Agent Acting in
                                    your Place as Soon as Posible and then Send me a letter on the Subject as Soon as
                                    Posible I will in form the Agent that there is one of the Heirs that is a criple and
                                    will be likly to Suffer if the Land is Sold from Her
                        
                                    Lathrup Cassman29
                           
                                
                        to John Jonson and & Agent
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  27 Some satisfaction by the heirs seems to have been important to the
                        transaction. See below, Lathrup Cassman to Elbert Herring, April 24, 1833, p. 115. Just exactly
                        what legal claim Cassman's heirs had in the case, however, is not clear. The treaty
                        specified that the land could pass only to the heirs without presidential approval, but did not
                        state what claim the heirs actually had. The 
                            Delaware County
                         records seem to indicate that each case was handled separately on its own merits.
               
                  28 Deed Record Book, I, 182. There are references in correspondence to
                        items in kind received by Cassman from Gilbert. See below, pp. 117, 119.
               
                  29 Lathrup Cassman to John Johnston, October 23, 1831, National Archives
                        Record Group No. 75. The crippled girl has not been identified. Lathrup Cassman in a letter to
                        Lewis Cass, January 15, 1832, below, p. 112, says that she is about twenty years old and has
                        never walked. A Janet Cosman is listed as owner of eighty acres in a compilation from a scarcely
                        legible Federal Land Sales, state of Indiana record on microfilm, Ball State University Library.
                        Her land is located within Cassman's half section. Her residence is given as
                        "same as
            
            
            
               LEFT
                        TO RIGHT: SEYMOUR LIPPERANT; HIS
                        WIFE, ELIZABETH O'HALLORAN
                            LIPPRANT; FRANCES CASSMAN
                            O'HALLORAN, ELIZABETH'S MOTHER; CECILIA LIPPRANT. THE
                        THREE
                        FEMALES
                        REPRESENT
                        THE 2ND, 3RD, AND
                            4TH
                        GENERATIONS
                        OF
                        SAMUEL CASSMAN Courtesy Dennis Head
            
            Johnston took the trouble to add a note to this letter before sending it to the War Department. He
                    showed a fatherly concern for the family's problems, but he had recently been a victim of
                    President Andrew Jackson's spoils system and no longer had authority to do more than make
                    recommendations. After a summary reference to the treaty provisions concerning Cassman's
                    grant, Johnston continued: 
                  
                     
                        During my Agency application was several times made to me to procure the Presidents
                                    consent, which I always declined on account of Cassman's intemperate habits
                                    and inability to manage money or property, 
                              Samuel Cosman" who in turn is listed as having his residence
                                            "located under 7th art. of Treaty with Delawares." October
                                            3 [or 13], 1818, has been uncritically entered in the "date of
                                            sale" column in both cases. In this and subsequent documents the
                                            editor has made an attempt to reproduce the text as closely as possible to
                                            the original. Complete consistency of interpretation in spelling,
                                            capitalization, punctuation, and spacing, however, has not always been
                                            possible. The editor has been as consistent within each document as it
                                            allows. Due to the frequency of run on sentences and the absence of
                                            punctuation, liberties have been taken with spacing and use of dashes to
                                            indicate what seems to be the end of a sentence. Needless repetition of
                                            words or authorial flourishes have been deleted. Brackets have been used
                                            around words and letters where such are absent from the text but are needed
                                            for clarity. Words or letters bracketed with a question mark indicate that
                                            they were unclear in the text.
                           
                            and from a desire to have the Land
                                    devolve to his children. I have little doubt the Sale alluded to within is a
                                    fradulent one in all its material features, and should not be approved by the
                                    Executive Cassman's [first] wife is dead, and has several children born in
                                    lawful wedlock. Some of them must be now of lawful age.30
                        
                        This letter with these remarks are submitted respectfully to the War Dept. and not
                                    sent to my successor, he being unacquainted with this business
                        John Johnston late Indian Agent in 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Indiana
                        Upper Piqua Novr. 24. 1831.
                        I am under the impression that Gilbert kept a whiskey establishment on the frontier
                                    and sold Liquor to the Indians. Cassmans family has long resided on the Land and
                                    still reside on it, and have made considerable improvements. J. J.31
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Early in the following year Lathrup Cassman wrote to Lewis Cass, secretary of war, at the suggestion
                    of John Johnston, as he said: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Muncy town
                           
                                    January 15th 1832
                                
                        (Dear Sir)
                        You having the manedgement of Public affares I wish to inform you of my Situation my
                                    Father being one of the York Indians32 and having had one half
                                    Section of Land Donated to him and his Heirs by Goverment at the Trety at St Marys
                                    My Father gave me Eighty Acres of the land to Settle on and i had Built a House and
                                    made Some other Impruvement on the land and then my Father Sold the lot I had Settle
                                    on to Samuel McClure33 and Goverment Failed to make him a rite
                                    and Sence that time my Father has sold the other Three Eighty acres lots ot [to]
                                    Goldsmith C Gilbert and I understand that he has sent on to Goverment for a Deed and
                                    I wish to inform you that the Heirs are all 
                              
                                 30 By 1830 Cassman had remarried. Johnston would not
                                            likely have been regularly briefed in Piqua concerning his former charges.
                              
                                 31 Johnston's note and its postscript were
                                            written on the reverse of Lathrup Cassman's letter to him, cited
                                            above, p. 109.
                              
                                 32 No identification of "York
                                            Indians" has been made, though numerous reference works have been
                                            consulted. The authors are grateful to Richard S. Maxwell, National Archives
                                            and Records Service, Laurent Chateâuneuf, Indian and Northern
                                            Affairs, 
                                                Ottawa
                                            , and C. MacKinnon, Public Archives of 
                                                Canada
                                            , for assisting in the search, though fruitless, through sources
                                            available to them. There is another reference to "York
                                            Indians" in a statement by John Tipton concerning Solomon
                                            Tindell's property that he was not the agent for "the 
                                                Delaware
                                             or York Indians." Deed Record Book, I, 64.
                              
                                 33 McClure has not been identified. Possibly he was
                                            the same Samuel McClure forbidden to provide whiskey to Indians on August 4,
                                            and September 29, 1827. See Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker,
                                            eds., The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXIV-XXVI, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1942), I, 757, 793–94. Several other references to
                                            a McClure are found in the 
                                                Tipton
                                             papers but no mention of Cassman in relation to them.
                           
                                     intirely unwilling to Sell for this Reson the
                                    Heirs are all farmers and wish to make there liven in that way Except one girl that
                                    is a Criple She is about Tweely [twenty] Years Old and has Never walke[d] a Step in
                                    her life and must Suffer if the Land is Sold from us there fore we luck [look] to
                                    you for Protection we Wrote to John Jonson on the Subject and he Instructed me to
                                    write to you I do not wish to defraud Gilbert the Contract betwene my father and
                                    Gilbert is as folows to wit one Wageon and Three Yoake of Oxen at two Hundred
                                    Dallars the Property was at a very high Price and the Balence to be Paid in Eighteen
                                    Months and is Not Due34 We Dont wish to take any advantedge of
                                    Gilbert he cen have the Property at any time that my Father got of him my Father is
                                    giting old and is not Capable of making Contracts for him Self in conciquence of his
                                    being Subject to Intoccication35 not Such as would be for the
                                    benifit of his Heirs as he has sold lots the Land and we are Destitude of home and
                                    we wish Instructions from you to now [know] if we would be Safe in going on the land
                                    or not or any other Precedings that would be nesesary on our Part as the Nabors I
                                    think are [will?] that we Should hold our Land (You will Pleas to write an answer to
                                    my Request as soon as Posible as we are Destitde of a home)
                        
                                    I am with Respects your Humble Servent
                                    Lathrup Cassman36
                           
                                
                        Gov Cass
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  34 Gilbert's note was nearly due, since it was given August 7,
                        1830. Deed Record Book, I, 182. Though the witnesses to Cassman's deed had on the
                        previous day signed the statement that Samuel and Thirza had "five hundred dollars to
                        them in hand" from Gilbert, this seems to have been only in the form of the barter
                        Lathrup mentions and a promissory note.
               
                  35 Though Cassman's habitual intoxication is well attested, there
                        is little evidence that he became unruly, so as to get into trouble with the law, unless perhaps
                        the sale of land to McClure or later references to a judgment in McClure's favor
                        represent satisfaction for damages rather than payment for goods. Lathrup Cassman himself was
                        indicted for disturbing a religious worship, motion not sustained. Circuit Court Record Book,
                        1832–1834, September term, 1832. Lathrup and Ethen Cassman with three other persons
                        were fined one dollar each for an "affray committed" on December 9, 1837.
                        "A list of Fines by William Jones," covering criminal cases, April 30, 1838 (
                            Delaware County
                         Archives). Surprisingly Samuel Cassman's name is affixed to a testimonial
                        of "good moral character" in favor of a tavern keeper, along with the
                        signatures of William Van Matre and a dozen other subscribers. Petition to the board of justices
                        of 
                            Delaware County
                        , March 2, 1830, 
                            Delaware County
                         Archives.
               
                  36 Lathrup Cassman to Lewis Cass, January 15, 1832. The Cassmans still
                        addressed Cass as "Governor." He had been governor of 
                            Michigan
                         Territory from 1813 to 1831 before becoming secretary of war. See Louis Martin
                        Sears, "Cass, Lewis," Dictionary of American Biography (22
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1928–1958), III, 562–64; Robert Sobel, ed., "Cass,
                        Lewis," Biographical Directory of the 
                                United States
                             Executive Branch, 1774–1971 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1971), 48–49. Cass seems to have referred the letter to Elbert
                        Herring, commissioner of Indian Affairs, since Lathrup Cassman later, in writing to Herring,
                        April 24, 1833, refers to a reply from Herring of February 11, 1832, to his letter of January
                        15. See below, p. 115.
            
            
            While the Cassmans were seeking assistance in their dilemma, Gilbert was trying to bring the
                    transaction to a legal conclusion. Documents were forwarded to 
                        Washington
                     in an effort to establish the regularity of the proceedings. A certification by William
                    Van Matre, clerk of the 
                        Delaware County
                     circuit court who had been recorder at the time of the sale, was added to a copy of the
                    deed. Van Matre testified to the terms of the transfer and stated that he was "well
                    acquainted" with Cassman and his wife and knew "that they rank in point of
                    inteligence [sic] and education with the mediocrity (at least) of our society (in
                    general)" and that Cassman was "received in our Courts on equal privileges with
                    all others accept in giving testimony against white persons."37
            
            At this point in the controversy evidence reveals the involvement of John Tipton. A major general in
                    the Indiana militia before becoming Indian agent, 
                        Tipton
                     served in that post from 1823 to 1831. Described by a biographer as a "typical
                    frontier politician, a hard-drinking, hard-hitting Indian fighter and an adroit land
                        speculator,"38
                    
                        Tipton
                     was currently 
                        United States
                     senator for Indiana.
            In a letter to 
                        Tipton
                    , February 29, 1832, Dickinson Burt recalled their meeting at Gilbert's
                    establishment on 
                        Tipton
                    's return from the Jackson inaugural, and begged to explain the role Burt
                    played in the Cassman land transaction. Secretary Cass may have asked 
                        Tipton
                     to inquire into the circumstances surrounding the sale which had taken place while 
                        Tipton
                     was in charge of Indian affairs in Indiana. In any case Cass had received Lathrup
                    Cassman's letter by February 4, 1832, as shown by the War Department's received
                    date written on the reverse, and about two months earlier he had heard from John Johnston.
                    Burt's letter justified his acknowledgment of the deed as deputy recorder in the absence of
                    the recorder as provided by law. The need to expound this small point of Indiana law to Senator
                    Tipton seems questionable unless Burt had been grilled concerning the dissatisfaction of the Cassman
                    heirs. Burt attested that Cassman, his wife, and the two oldest heirs were well pleased 
                  
                     37 Deed certification by William Van Matre, February 24, 1832, Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I, 212. Dickinson Burt, Van Matre's
                            deputy, had actually recorded the Cassman sale, as stated in the letter cited below, p. 114.
                  
                     38 Glen A. Blackburn, "
                                Tipton
                            , John," Dictionary of American Biography, XVIII,
                            564.
               
                     with the bargain at the time of the sale and proceeded to
                    choose animals and equipment from Gilbert's stock. He concluded with a thrust at some
                    unidentified interference from "some persons in this place," to which he
                    attributed the trouble regarding the land.39
            
            On April 2, 1832, 
                        Tipton
                     transmitted the Cassman deed to Elijah Hayward, commissioner of the General Land
                    Office, for approval by the president,40 and on the same day declared: 
                        I was personally acquainted with Samuel Cassman and consider him capable as men generally are
                            to preserve property, the price paid for the within mentioned land is a fair consideration
                            for it, and I respectfully recommend its approval 2nd April 1832
                        John Tipton41
                  
                     This endorsement by 
                        Tipton
                     of the Cassman sale is particularly interesting since he had earlier declined to
                    support a similar sale declaring he was not the agent for the 
                        Delaware
                     or York Indians.42
            
            Nearly eleven months passed before further action toward finalizing the transfer was recorded. Then
                    Elijah Hayward addressed President Jackson a letter which briefly reviewed the facts of the treaty
                    reservation and the sale of Cassman's land for five hundred dollars acknowledged in the
                    proper form. Since Tipton had certified the fairness of the price and Cassman's competency,
                    Hayward recommended approval.43
            
            In the first Land Volume of Indian Deeds, just below 
                        Tipton
                    's endorsement, is a two line entry: 
                        Approved this 27th of February 1833
                        Andrew Jackson44
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  39 Dickinson Burt to John Tipton, February 29, 1832, John
                            Tipton Papers, II, 536–37. A note below this letter mentions another, no
                        longer legible, to 
                            Tipton
                         from Gilbert, March 1, 1832, concerning the sale.
               
                  40 John Tipton to Elijah Hayward, April 2, 1832, National Archives Record
                        Group No. 75.
               
                  41
                        Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I, 213.
               
                  42 This statement was in relation to the sale of Solomon
                        Tindell's reserve to Gilbert in 1829. Later, learning that Tindell had left for
                            Green Bay, 
                            Tipton
                         reversed his decision and in "justice to Mr. Gilbert" certified
                        that Tindell had been satisfied with the price paid. Deed Record Book, I, 63–64.
               
                  43 Elijah Hayward to Andrew Jackson, February 26, 1833, National Archives
                        Record Group No. 75.
               
                  44
                        Land Volume of Indian Deeds, I, 213.
            
            
            One might suppose that the president's approval wrote finis to the Cassman
                    land story, but not so. About two months later Lathrup Cassman, having heard indirectly that the
                    land had been transferred, sought advice from the commissioner in the Indian Office: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Munceytown
                           
                                    April 24th 1833
                                
                        The Hon Elbert Hering
                        Sir
                        In your letter to me of the 11th Feby 1832 in answer to mine of the 15th Jany upon
                                    the subject of the half section of land granted my father and his heirs by the
                                    treaty of St Maries you say that land by the peourpious [purpose] of the treaty was
                                    never to be conveyed without the consent of the president and that that consent will
                                    not be given without the heirs will join in the transfer Mr Gilbert I understand a
                                    few days ago stated he had a letter from the department inclosed him by 
                                        Tipton
                                     that the transfer to him was approved by the president now the object
                                    of this communication is to know if this statement be true and to know wheather the
                                    department has any new evidence to in duce a change and to know what further is
                                    necessary to be done by the heirs to prevent the rattification of the transfer if is
                                    not done an answer is respectfully requested
                        
                                    I am very respectfully your obt servt
                                    Lathrup Cassman45
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Since apparently his son did not receive a reply to this letter, Samuel Cassman himself, in his
                    tortuous hand and phonetic spelling, addressed a pathetic plea to Secretary Cass: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    1833 October 3th
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Delaware County
                                  State of indiana at Munce town
                           
                                
                        Dear Honorable sur governnor Cass at Conggrass i take thes opertunyte to inform you
                                    of my sitauatoin i hope these fu lines well find you in good helth i am sic and in
                                    destress and now ho shall i cry to you i beg of Mr jonson to intersede for me and
                                    with the consent of the commisners of the united staes got me a pese of land on
                                    whaite river and you was one you made thes reseve it was not to be dis poset of no
                                    way with out the aprebation of the presedent of the Unite Staes thes tock all my
                                    right of dessposeing of the land in any way to an at vantege you cept [kept] the hol
                                    power in your own hands for what so that soch yankkey as Mr gilbert need not take
                                    the at vantege of weakeness of poore he has not only yanked me but the hole united
                                    stetes he give Mr tipton the rite to helpe him Blind the hol Congress i never sent
                                    to the presed praying for his apprabation to sel god help the presedent to consider
                                    the poor and needy and the hole Conggress Consider gilbert has worke aginst me in
                                    Congress with out my nowing he has take en the at vantege of me and the Conggess has
                                    let him & had i none it 
                              
                                 45 Lathrup Cassman to Elbert Herring, April 24, 1833,
                                            National Archives Record Group No. 75.
                           
                                     i could of aske some gentleman to of interseded
                                    for me as Mr gilbe[rt] ded if I had not so much monney as Mr. gilbert the jenerl46 and gilbert both have got welththy of the indaans Mr. gilbert
                                    took the at vanteg of me when i was sick of fever I was not at myself he charge me
                                    dubble press for the propety and what he ded let me have he took back o marcy marcy
                                    where shall I go for help I rote to jenrel when he set as agent47 my son rote to the secatary at Conggress and no help is found here I am
                                    sufring noble governner you fare supttuously avry day like the rich man48 here i am on bred and water I cry unto you for assistance how
                                    shall I persue for jestes is there aney way pese to tell me the jenrel never new me
                                    nor the land he never was to look over the land to give a correct valley [value] of
                                    the land how he has rong poor creyter as well as me thare is the propety of the
                                    wedow hackley49 now worth 01 000 dollors and got for [9?]
                                    hun[red?] and stell thay ar both50 embetterd enemas to the
                                    indaans the indevedauals that he has cheat be Soloman tendel dick51 thes gilbert Well the governver Cass job ess to send to the agent at
                                    logansport not to give up that deede till i am presant satisspide plase derect a
                                    leter to muncy town
                        
                                    Samuel Cassman52
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            There is in this letter a direct contradiction of 
                        Tipton
                    's statement that he was personally acquainted with Cassman. It seems unlikely
                    that Cassman would have been unaware of having known and been known by the Indian agent. Personal
                    acquaintance is a two way street. Cassman, in his naïveté, seems not to have
                    realized that President Jackson, for whom he begged God's help to consider the plight of
                    the poor, was politically committed to effecting the removal of Indians from the lands east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and had at his beck a number of like minded men.
            Possibly, Cassman's letter in his own behalf helped to slow down the legal processes, since
                    about sixteen months later a long explanatory plea on behalf of the Cassman heirs appeared in the
                    form of a letter addressed to Secretary Cass 
                  
                     46 "jenerl" and "jenrel" in
                            context, seem to refer to 
                                Tipton
                            .
                  
                     47 No letter from Samuel Cassman to John Tipton has been found among
                            the published 
                                Tipton
                             papers, nor in the correspondence re Samuel Cassman furnished to the authors
                            from the National Archives.
                  
                     48 The reference seems to be to the parable of the rich man and the
                            poor man named Lazarus, Luke 16: 19–21. This and the preceding reference to God
                            ("god help the presedent") suggest that Cassman had some acquaintance with
                            Christian teaching. His expressions occasionally take on a psalmodic quality.
                  
                     49 Rebecca Hackley.
                  
                     50 Probably Tipton and Gilbert.
                  
                     51 Solomon Tindell and Jacob Dick, 
                                Delaware
                             who received land grants by the treaty of St. Mary's along with
                            Cassman, October 3, 1818.
                  
                     52 Samuel Cassman to Lewis Cass, October 3, 1833, National Archives
                            Record Group No. 75.
               
                     by a young lawyer, Andrew Kennedy, concerning the contest for
                    Cassman's land. He stated that the heirs were six in number, three of age and three minors.
                    "Those kind of contests," he said, "are attended with much trouble, and
                    offten I fear, with much injustice to the heirs of those men to who the aborigenese of our country
                    have saw fit to make donations." He told Cass that he was omitting the terms of the treaty
                    since the secretary was perfectly acquainted with the matter. Cassman, he said, took possession of
                    his land in 1824 or 1825 and remained in quiet possession of it until 1829 when one Samuel McClure,
                    having some claim against Cassman agreed to settle it in consideration of an eighty acre lot of
                    Cassman's land. Though no deed to McClure has been discovered, Kennedy stated that a deed
                    was executed and that McClure tried to obtain a patent for the land, but failed. McClure then
                    relinquished the land and took Cassman's note for the amount owed, with Goldsmith C.
                    Gilbert offering security.
            Kennedy thought that Gilbert bought the remaining two hundred forty acres of Cassman's land
                    in the meantime, though no evidence of such a transaction has been found. He also stated that
                    Gilbert agreed to pay Cassman six hundred dollars for the property, half the amount in chattels,
                    namely: three yoke of oxen, three log chains, and a wagon; and the remainder in the form of a
                    promissory note.53 He continued with an accusation suggesting doubledealing on
                    the part of Gilbert when Cassman offered for sale the oxen, chains, and wagon which had been
                    delivered to him and executed as his property. Before the day of the sale, Kennedy said, Gilbert,
                    fearing he would not get a patent for the land, disavowed the contract and reclaimed the farm
                    equipment which he eventually used to pay his own debts. Besides that, Gilbert also advertised and
                    forewarned the public that he would not pay the amount of his note to Cassman. That note, Kennedy
                    said, 
                        is now in the hands one of the heirs, unpaid!! Gilbert has paid the note to Mcclure on which
                            he was security amounti[n]g to 125$ he has 
                        
                           53 Kennedy's letter is the only source which quotes
                                    this higher price. It may be that he simply misstated the facts in his enthusiasm to
                                    espouse the Cassman cause. Kennedy served in the state legislature and in Congress.
                                    See Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                        1774–1971 (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1971), 1223; Helm, History of 
                                            Delaware County
                                        
                           , 219.
                     
                             likewise let Cassman have one Milch Cow worth
                            10$ one [hog?] worth 6$ which from what I can learn amounts to the sum
                                total of all he has paid, for the whole 1/2 section which he now
                            claims!! the Land is worth at least 2000$. It is said that
                            Gilbert says! that he has paid the amount that he agreed, to wit 600$ G[ilbert]
                            charging- Cassman some 4 or 5 Dollars per day for his team of oxen!! at the time they were
                            in his possession, before he (Gilbert) [probed?] them away!! A shame! That
                            this is the true cituation of the matter there can be abundent proof
                            adduced! Lathrup & Ethen, Cassman sons & heirs, of the old man have been
                            & still are in the possession of the Land; Gilbert however, tells them that
                            Government has made him a pattent for the whole amount of the land. …
                     Kennedy pointed out that the Cassman heirs were anxious to know whether they were to be
                    deprived of the right to be heard in the matter by government officials, "unaided as they
                    are by great men to advance their interests." He further stated that they had reason to
                    believe they had been wronged by the representations of General John Tipton, but that the government
                    would do them justice if the facts were made clear. Kennedy signed the letter "on behalf of
                    Cassmans heirs."54
            
            Kennedy's letter may represent some of the interference Dickinson Burt hinted at in his
                    letter to 
                        Tipton
                     and to which Gilbert alluded in his complaint of the delay in processing the land
                    transfer: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Muncietown 
                                    Delaware county
                                  Indiana
                           
                                    May 25th 1835
                                
                        Honl. Elijah Hayward
                        Sir—
                        Having some years back made purchases of some Indian Reservations in this
                                    neighborhood and having as far as I am acquainted made every necessary statement to
                                    the proper departments requisite to the approval of my titles I have thus taken the
                                    liberty of requesting you to inform me if you know why my papers have not been
                                    forwarded, I had understood from Genl. Tipton more than a year past that the
                                    Presedent had approved of them, but if he has they have not came to
                                    hand—One of my purchases that is from Samuel Cassman, I have understood
                                    some persons unfriendly to me, have interfered in and no doubt have made
                                    misrepresentments of the purchase—
                        I am fully prepared to make satisfactory proof of the fairness of the purchase and
                                    payment, if that should be any obstacle with the Department … My claims
                                    are for one Section purchased from Rebeca Hackley, one half section from Isaac Wabby
                                    one half section from Thomas Dick, 1/2 Section from the Tindals & 1/2
                                    Section from Samuel Cassman, as this 
                              
                                 54 Andrew Kennedy to Lewis Cass, January 31, 1835,
                                            National Archives Record Group No. 75.
                           
                                     last is the only purchase that I know of any
                                    interference in—I request you to retain my papers if in your possession
                                    until I can be fairly heard [in?] the question—You will confer a peculiar
                                    favour on me by answering me on this subject as soon as convenient—
                        
                                    Yours respectfully
                                    Goldsmith C. Gilbert55
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Noteworthy is Gilbert's confidence that he could prove, against Cassman's denials
                    and with the mortgage by now long overdue, that he had paid enough for the land. Since, according to
                    Andrew Kennedy, Gilbert had charged Cassman a specious per diem "rental" for the
                    oxen which he later reclaimed, he may now have calculated, given the lapse of time, that the family
                    actually owed him "rent" for the land on which they were still living. Though
                    Gilbert's letter was answered on July 3, as noted on its reverse, the case was not yet
                    settled. 
                        Tipton
                    , writing to Cass in the following spring in reference to a trip made by Colonel Abel C.
                    Pepper to look into some agency business, commented: 
                  
                     
                        The case of Gilbert and Cassman was of long standing, involves property now of considerable vallue. the parties are pressing for a decision, the
                                    duties assigned Col Pepper were necessary and proper and might be performed at such
                                    place as Col P deemed most convenient to all parties, and I hope that no objection
                                    will be set up to his claim when all the facts are understood.
                        
                                    Yr obt Servt
                                    John Tipton56
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Whatever the duties and place referred to, Pepper was able to report success to Commissioner Ethan A.
                    Brown, General Land Office, with regard to the Cassman-Gilbert controversy. When it is recalled that
                    Pepper superintended the harsh removal of Potawatomi (and other Indians from Indiana as well as
                    tribes from 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ) during his tenure as assistant and then full Indian agent from 1829 to 1839, his
                    mediation resulting in a substantial payment to Cassman seems the more surprising.57 When forwarding papers finalizing the Cassman-Gilbert negotiations, 
                  
                     55 Goldsmith C. Gilbert to Elijah Hayward, May 25, 1835, National
                            Archives Record Group No. 75.
                  
                     56 John Tipton to Lewis Cass, April 17, 1836, John Tipton
                                Papers, III, 261.
                  
                     57 For references to Pepper's role in Indian removal see
                            Irving McKee, The Trail of Death, Letters of Benjamin Marie Petit (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 18–25.
               
                     Pepper included a covering letter in which he expressed his
                    feeling that the compromise agreed upon had done "ample justice to Cassman."58
            
            In one of the forwarded documents Cassman acknowledged receipt of 
                        an additional consideration of the Sum of twelve hundred dollars from Goldsmith C Gilbert,
                            for the Reserve half section … containing 320 acres, In consideration whereof I
                            do hereby with-draw all manner of contest and claim whatever to said land and authorize and
                            request the commissioner of the land office to deliver over to said Gilbert said deed with
                            the approval and ratification of the Presedent of the 
                                United States
                            . Witness my hand and seal, this 27. July 1836
                        Samuel Cassman Seal
                        Witness Present
                        O H Smith59
                  
                        Wm Saxon
                    
            
            This surprisingly large sum seems to represent recognition of the increased value of the land during
                    the years intervening since Cassman's negotiations with Gilbert in 1830. Kennedy was of the
                    opinion that the land in 1835 was worth at least two thousand dollars.60 To
                    assure the heirs' satisfaction with the arrangements, Cassman's receipt also
                    contained the following appended declaration: 
                        We the undersigned heirs at law of the above named Samuel Cassman do certify that we were
                            present at the receipt by said Cassman of the said twelve hundred dollars and that we join
                            him in the request that said deed may be given over to said Gilbert, discharged of all claim
                            whatever of [said] Cassman and his heirs. Witness our hands & Seals
                        Witness Lathrup Cassman Seal
                        his
                        O H Smith Ethen X Cassman Seal
                        Wm Saxon mark
                        his
                        Philander X
                        mark Cassman Seal
                    
            
            
               
                  58 Abel C. Pepper to Ethan A. Brown, August 8, 1836, National Archives
                        Record Group No. 75.
               
                  59 Enclosures received with letter, Abel C. Pepper to Ethan Brown, August
                        8, 1836. Oliver Hampton Smith, a lawyer, served in the 
                            United States
                         Congress as representative, 1827–1829, and as senator,
                        1837–1843. See Newton D. Mereness, "Smith, Oliver Hampton," Dictionary of American Biography, XVII, 330–31. Smith purchased the
                        "Cassman Reserve" from Gilbert, October 29, 1836, for $1500. Deed
                        Record Book, II, 167. He laid out the village of Yorktown in the northwest quarter of section
                        22. Plat date, November 5, 1836. Deed Record Book, II 351. The Cassmans seem to have felt some
                        gratitude to him. A son born to Philander Cassman in 1840 or 1841 was named Oliver H. Smith may
                        have allowed the family to live on the land for a time after the sale.
               
                  60 Andrew Kennedy to Lewis Cass, January 31, 1835.
            
            
            At this time Cassman also obtained a settlement for the outstanding promissory note for three hundred
                    dollars, signed by Gilbert as part of the original land sale negotiations of August, 1830. The note
                    would have come due eighteen months thereafter. No interest charge nor overdue penalty had been
                    specified in the note, so that payment of the principal alone was now certified by Cassman. Only one
                    sum was acknowledged, though both a mortgage and a note are mentioned: 
                        I have recd from Goldsmith C Gilbert a full and entire satisfaction for the amount specified
                            in a mortgage executed by him to me on the North half of section No 22. in Township No 20. N
                            of Range 9. East, and also the full amount of a note I hold against said Gilbert for the sum
                            of three hundred dollars, which note is now in the hands of the Indian Agent Abel C Pepper
                            Esq. Witness my hand & Seal 27 July 1836.
                        Witness present
                        O H Smith Samuel Cassman Seal61
                  
                    
            
            The document contained no reference whatever to farm animals and equipment Cassman and Gilbert had
                    originally agreed upon as part of the settlement, most of which, Kennedy said, Gilbert had
                    subsequently reclaimed. In his final statement Pepper declared that "the enclosed
                    compromise having taken place between Goldsmith C. Gilbert and Samuel Cassman it is presumed that
                    there will be no more required by the department. Mr Gilbert will therefore await the receipt of the
                        deed."62
            
            One might be inclined to marvel here at the nobility of the officials who saw to it that the poor
                    Indian received his due, but had Cassman not been so persistent he would have lost all to the white
                    man's ambition. In writing to Cass, Cassman showed some familiarity with the parable of the
                    rich man "faring sumptuously." Perhaps he had also heard the one about the
                    impoverished widow who kept pleading with the judge until he did her justice, not because he was a
                    godly man, but because of her importunity.63
            
            Several property transactions recorded between 1837 and 1840 suggest that Cassman may have shared the
                    twelve hundred 
                  
                     61 Enclosures received with letter, Abel C. Pepper to Ethan Brown,
                            August 8, 1836. Thirza, though living at the time, does not figure in this transaction. Her
                            name appears in a later land sale, January 1, 1838. Deed Record Book, III, 20.
                  
                     62 Enclosures received with letter, Abel C. Pepper to Ethan Brown,
                            August 8, 1836.
                  
                     63 Luke 18: 1–8.
               
                     dollars with his sons.64 In 1840 the
                    Cassmans were still living in 
                        Delaware County
                     in three separate households. Lathrup later departed for 
                        Iowa
                    , where, as an old man in 1889, he wrote to the "War Department"
                    asking for a copy of his father's grant.65 In 1843 Philander moved his
                    family by covered wagon to 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     and established a home directly north of 
                        Lafayette
                     and west of the Indiana State Soldiers' Home site where the Soldiers'
                    cemetery is now located.66
            
            As for Samuel Cassman, after Thirza's death in probably the early 1840s, he is said to have
                    spent some time at the Mississinewa Reservation near Peru, Indiana.67 According
                        
                  
                     64 The following transactions appear in the 
                                Delaware County
                             Archives deed records. On January 27, 1837, Christopher Wilson sold to Samuel
                            Cassman for $300, eighty acres in section 34. Deed Record Book, II, 590. On
                            January 1, 1838, Samuel and Thirza Cassman sold to Stephen Ellis the same tract for
                            $300. Deed Record Book, III, 20. On June 19, 1837, O. H. Smith sold to Hampton
                            Cassman for $50 lots 139 and 140 in 
                                Yorktown
                            , and on September 7, 1837, Hampton Cassman sold the same lots to Stephen Grimes
                            for $55. Release of all right and claim was signed by Samuel Cassman. Deed Record
                            Book, II, 432, 489. On August 1, 1838, O. H. Smith sold to Hampton Cassman for
                            $50 lots 149 and 150 in 
                                Yorktown
                            , which lots the latter sold to John F. Longley, October 4, 1839, for
                            $75. Deed Record Book, III, 286; IV, 415. On October 16, 1840, Philander and
                            Katharin (Catherene) Cassman of 
                                Delaware County
                             sold to Andrew Schoot of 
                                Tippecanoe county
                             for $150 forty acres in section 34. Deed Record Book, VI, 15.
                  
                     65 Lathrup Cassman to the War Department, n.d., National Archives
                            Record Group No. 75. This letter was sent from 
                                Sioux City
                            , received by the Office of the Secretary of War, November 9, 1889, and referred
                            to the commissioner of Indian Affairs two days later. It was a simple, rambling, repetitious
                            request for a copy of the terms of the New Purchase treaty and was answered on December 2,
                            1889. Lathrup Cassman died at 
                        Leeds, Iowa
                     , in 1892, at about 84 years of age.
                            He had married twice and had ten children, three of whom died young. Cassman family data,
                            unpublished.
                  
                     66 Lathrup and Philander married sisters, Ella and Catherine (Katie)
                            Patterson, of St. Mary's, 
                                Ohio
                            . Philander and Katie had five children. Philander helped build the first wooden
                            bridge across the 
                                Wabash
                             at 
                                Brown
                             Street in 
                                Lafayette
                            . He died in 1851, two days before his thirty-sixth birthday. His brother,
                            Ethen, married, had five children, and died at 
                        Memphis, Tennessee
                     , of
                            yellow fever in 1857; Hampton, unmarried, lived in 
                                Tippecanoe county
                            , and died of cholera in 1849; Isaac, unmarried, a soldier in the Mexican War,
                            died of consumption in 1851; 
                                Oregon
                            , married, had four children, lived in 
                                Tippecanoe county
                            , and died in 1861. Cassman family data, unpublished.
                  
                     67 Ellis, Our County, 162; Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 266, says Cassman "removed to the Indian Reserve, in Howard
                            or 
                                Miami County
                            , Indiana, where he mingled with the tribes among whom his former associations
                            had been. He wandered away from that resort after the death of his second wife.
                            …" In 1970 Richard S. Maxwell made a special search of relevant
                            reservation and annuity payroll records in the National Archives but did not find the
                            Cassman (Casman, or Cosman) name there. In an interview, October 14, 1973, with William
                            Francis Hale (Miami Chief Mongonza), one of the authors was permitted
               
                     family tradition, corroborated by 
                        Delaware County
                     historians, he went hunting on a wintry day and failed to return. His body was later
                    found frozen in the hollow of a tree where he must have taken refuge. This was in 
                        Madison county
                     in 1849.68 Though he died tragically alone, this Indian,
                    "a large man, about six feet tall," was brought down, one might philosophize, more
                    fittingly perhaps by nature's severity than had he died peacefully in his bed.69 Though labeled a drunken Indian he had for a time sobered the established
                    powers, themselves intoxicated by a land grabbing passion. A man of peace, he with his sons had been
                    victorious in a skirmish on Buck Creek where the quill in the hands of the scarcely literate was
                    proved to be mightier than the arrow had been to win the Indian his rights in Indiana.
            
               to examine his portfolios of documents for evidence of Cassman's presence at the
                        Mississinewa Reservation, but was unable to find him among those enrolled. Cassman may have been
                        there as a transient, not a resident among the Miami.
               
                  68 Cassman family data, unpublished. See also, Ellis, Our
                            County, 162; Haimbaugh, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            
                  , I, 55; Helm, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            
                  , 266; Kemper, Twentieth Century History of 
                                Delaware County
                            
                  , 19.
               
                  69 Cassman family data, unpublished.
            
         
         
         
            William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: First Senatorial Term,
                        1826–1831*
            
            Edited by Frederick D. Hill**
            
            The Indiana General Assembly elected William Hendricks to the 
                        United States
                     Senate on January 12, 1825. Hendricks had won his last congressional reelection in 1820
                    by a margin of more than ten to one and had been elected governor in 1822 without opposition, but
                    his senatorial election was close. He trailed his leading opponent, Judge Isaac Blackford of the
                    Indiana Supreme Court, by one vote on each of the first two ballots, but he was elected on the
                    fourth ballot 32 to 30.1 When Governor Hendricks resigned in February, 1825, a
                    month after being elected to the Senate, he had served only a little more than two years of the
                    three year term to which he had been elected.2
            
            Senator Hendricks arrived at 
                        Washington
                     on March 3, 1825, to attend the inauguration of President John Quincy Adams and to sit
                    in the special session of the Senate, which convened the next day to act on the new
                    president's appointments.3 This time he was no stranger on
                        Capitol Hill. Eight 
                  
                     * An introduction to the political career of William
                            Hendricks and a discussion of political circulars and their use by Hendricks and others were
                            included in the first installment in this series. See Frederick D. Hill, [ed.],
                            "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: Congressional
                            Period, 1816–1822," Indiana Magazine of History, LXX
                            (December, 1974), 296–309.
                  
                     ** Frederick D. Hill is professor of history at
                            Indiana Central University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana
                                Election Returns, 1816–1861 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 127; ibid., 73–74. Returns from
                                    
                        Knox, Monroe
                     , Scott, and 
                                Washington
                             counties, being from the Corydon Indiana Gazette, August 31
                            and September 17, are unofficial. Ibid., 138.
                  
                     2 William Hendricks to Secretary of State William W. Wick, February
                            12, 1825, William H. English Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     3 William Hendricks to Dennis Pennington et al.,
                            September 26, 1828, 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, October 15, 1828.
               
                     of the senators had sat with him in the House of
                    Representatives between 1816 and 1822.4
            
            When Congress convened in regular session in December, Hendricks quickly went to work on behalf of
                    his constituents. At his suggestion the Senate created a Select Committee on Roads and Canals. The
                    next day he was made chairman of the committee, and ten days later he moved that the committee be
                    instructed to study federal aid to Indiana to build a canal connecting the 
                        Wabash
                     and Maumee rivers.5 At the beginning of each
                    session of Congress from 1825 to 1829, Hendricks moved the creation of this select committee; and
                    each time, the committee was created and he was made its chairman. Then in January, 1830, Roads and
                    Canals was made a standing committee, and the next winter Hendricks was again its chairman.6 During this initial senatorial term he also served four sessions on the
                    Standing Committee on Contingent Expenses of the Senate; four on Military Affairs; and three on
                    Indian Affairs.7 But his energies were devoted primarily to internal
                    improvements and the work of the Committee on Roads and Canals.
            Senator Hendricks was a diligent legislator, voting on more than ninety-five percent of the roll
                    calls during his first term. Though he maintained his freedom of action, and no faction could
                    legitimately claim him as a partisan, he usually acted with the majority.8 He
                    voted with them on about seventy-five percent of the procedural questions and about sixty-five 
                  
                     4 James L. Harrison, comp., Biographical Directory of the
                                American Congress, 1774–1949 (
                                Washington
                            , 1950), 110–35, 143–49.
                  
                     5
                            Senate Journal, 19 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 124), 32–33,
                            38, 55 (December 12, 13, 22, 1825).
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 32–33, 38 (December 12, 13, 1825); ibid., 19 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 143), 35 (December 13, 1826); ibid., 20 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 162), 36 (December 13, 1827); ibid., 20 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 180), 30 (December 15, 1828);
                                ibid., 21 Cong. 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 191), 24, 90 (December 9,
                            1829, January 18, 1830); ibid., 21 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 202), 6
                            (December 7, 1830).
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 19 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 124), 32 (December 12, 1825);
                                ibid., 19 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 143), 30 (December 11,
                            1826); ibid., 20 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial 162), 28, 29 (December 10,
                            11, 1827); ibid., 20 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 180), 22, 23
                            (December 9, 1828); ibid., 21 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 191), 23
                            (December 9, 1829); ibid., 21 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 202), 6
                            (December 7, 1830).
                  
                     8 This was a period of transition from the nonpartisan "era
                            of good feeling" to the partisan Jacksonian era, and national parties were just
                            beginning to reemerge. Senators and representatives were sometimes described as Adams-
                                Clay
                             men or Jackson men, but many defied classification. New majorities, therefore,
                            based on shifting alliances, often had to be mobilized issue by issue.
               
                     percent of the amendments proposed. On passage of bills
                    Hendricks voted with the majority about eighty-five percent of the time. He and James Noble, the
                    other senator from Indiana, frequently disagreed on procedural matters and sometimes opposed each
                    other in substantive debate. But they stood together on about eighty-five percent of the roll call
                    votes in which both participated.9
            
            Few problems of national importance are resolved quickly, and the political circulars that Senator
                    Hendricks wrote during his first term show the persistence of many questions that he had treated
                    while in the House of Representatives. Proposed changes in public land policy and the proper
                    relation to Latin American republics continued to receive detailed coverage; internal improvements
                    and Indian affairs became major issues and were reported in depth; and the controversial tariff
                    question was occasionally reviewed.
            Congress had ended credit sales of public lands in 1820 and the next year had passed a comprehensive
                    relief law to lighten the burden of purchasers already in arrears and to hasten liquidation of the
                    accumulated indebtedness. At that time Hendricks believed this law to be broad enough to satisfy
                    completely the need for relief.10 He was mistaken, however, and Congress
                    repeatedly extended the deadline for claiming benefits under the law and liberalized its terms.11
            
            By the middle of the 1820s western states were dotted with unsold tracts of public land because
                    settlers moving westward bypassed areas that seemed less fertile or were less readily accessible to
                    purchase what appeared to be choice land. Bills that provided for pricing public land according to
                    its desirability, measured by the length of time it had been on the market and remained unsold, were
                    being introduced at every session of Congress. The most popular graduation proposal would have
                    reduced the price of land already on the 
                  
                     9 These statistics were compiled from roll call votes recorded in the
                                Register of Debates, 19–21 Cong. (March 4, 1825-March 3,
                            1831).
                  
                     10
                            Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2578–80 (April
                            24, 1820); ibid., 16 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 1795–98 (March 2,
                            1821); see Hill, "William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his
                            Constituents: Congressional Period, 1816–1822," 335–38.
                  
                     11
                            Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2591–92 (April
                            20, 1822); ibid., 17 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 1408 (March 3, 1823); ibid., 18 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 3219–20, 3231–32
                            (May 18, 26, 1824); Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix
                            xii-xiii (May 4, 1826); ibid., 20 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxiii (May 23,
                            1828); ibid., 21 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xiii (March 31, 1830); ibid., 21 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 17 (February 25, 1831).
               
                     market to one dollar per acre on March 1, 1827, and continued
                    to reduce it twenty-five cents per acre each year. If any remained unsold after one year on the
                    market at twenty-five cents per acre, it would be ceded to the state in which it was located. Most
                    congressmen from the thirteen original states were opposed to graduating the price of public lands,
                    however, and no such law was enacted at this time.12
            
            During the 1827 debate on graduation, Hendricks labeled the current public land policy unjust and
                    offered an amendment that would have limited graduation to lands in the territories and ceded all
                    other public lands to the states in which they were located. Though he had earlier supported the
                    prohibition of slavery as a condition for the admission of 
                        Missouri
                     to the Union, Hendricks now denied the power of Congress to condition the admission of
                    a state by retaining title to public lands located therein. He took his stand on the Ordinance of
                    1787, which provided for the admission of new states "on an equal footing with the original
                    States in all respects whatever," and on the Constitution, into which he read the same
                        idea.13 Federal control of public lands in the states and tax exemption for
                    these lands while public and for five years after they passed into private hands, he said, were
                    "contrary to the spirit of the Constitution." According to him "rights of
                    soil and taxation are inseparable from the sovereignty of every independent state."14 The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Indiana Republican credited Hendricks with originating the cession concept and
                    along with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Journal applauded his initiative and diligence. Despite the efforts of
                    Hendricks and others, however, his cession proposal was repeatedly rejected by Congress.15
            
            In his circulars Hendricks usually alluded to the international scene. At various times he mentioned
                    revolutions in Europe or the possibility of war there, and he applauded any 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 19 Cong., 2 Sess., 39–52 (January 9, 1827).
                  
                     13 Henry S. Commager, ed., Documents of American
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 131, 144.
                  
                     14
                            Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 2 Sess., 49–50 (January 9,
                            1827); ibid., 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 151, 155, 162–65 (January 28,
                            1828). For Hendricks' arguments see below, pp. 148–49,
                            153–56, 160–61, 165–66.
                  
                     15 Editorials, 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, January 7, February 25, March 18, 1829; ibid., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, March 20, December 20, 1828. See Malcolm Rohrbough, Land Office Business: The Settlement and Administration of American Public
                                Lands, 1789–1837 (
                                New York
                            , 1971) for full coverage of public land policy.
               
                     trend toward political liberalism. Concern was evident,
                    however, only if the situation seemed to threaten American commerce. Then he would comment on the
                    presence of naval squadrons in the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, or elsewhere to protect that
                        trade.16
            
            The most controversial and time consuming diplomatic question that came before the Senate between
                    1825 and 1831 was the matter of delegates to the Panama Congress. In 1822 the 
                        United States
                     had been the first nation outside Latin America to recognize the new republics there.
                    Three years later these republics invited the 
                        United States
                     to send delegates to a congress scheduled to convene in Panama in June, 1826. Though a
                    majority of the senators favored this mission, antiadministration forces in the Senate delayed
                    confirmation of the proposed delegates, and the congress adjourned before they arrived.17 On every roll call during the controversy, Hendricks took the stand he felt
                    would expedite the mission, because he believed in the wisdom of a friendly policy toward neighbors
                    and saw prospects of a growing commerce with them.18
            
            Though 
                        Spain
                     no longer exercised authority on the western continents, political conditions in her
                    former colonies were a disappointment to friends of republican government. According to Hendricks,
                    the minority in these new republics had not learned to submit to the majority, and the result was
                    military despotism.19
            
            As Americans settled the interior, they found natural waterways to be a valuable but inadequate means
                    of moving people and goods. Streams were seldom close enough, and rapids and other obstructions
                    often hindered navigation. Improvement of transportation was possible through clearing rivers,
                    building roads, and digging canals, but western states, deprived of public lands and the privilege
                    of taxing public and newly sold lands, lacked the resources to do the job. As chairman of the Senate
                    Committee on Roads and Canals, Hendricks welcomed responsibility for screening proposals for federal
                    aid and recommending appropriations.
            
               
                  16 See below, pp. 151, 161–62, 172–73.
               
                  17
                        Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., 148–51 (March 14, 1826).
                        See George Dangerfield, The Awakening of American Nationalism,
                        1815–1828 (
                            New York
                        , 1965), 248–57, regarding the Senate's treatment of the
                        president's appointees.
               
                  18 See below, pp. 141–43.
               
                  19 See below, p. 172.
            
            
            The Cumberland Road, begun at 
                  Cumberland, Maryland
               , in 1811, was opened to the
                        Ohio River in 1817. In 1825 construction began between the river and
                            
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               . In 1827 surveyors located the route in Indiana; in 1829 an
                    appropriation was made for construction there; and a few months later work was begun.20 Many eastern congressmen, desiring to keep expenditures for the road low, disputed its
                    need, expressed concern over depletion of the two percent fund, and repeatedly questioned its
                    constitutionality. Hendricks insisted that the road had "increased the wealth of the
                    country to an amount far greater than the sums that had been expended in its construction";
                    and he contended that if Congress had not the constitutional authority to appropriate funds for
                    Cumberland Road construction, neither had it the constitutional authority to bargain for tax
                    exemption for public and recently sold lands in the new states with the promise of using two percent
                    of the net proceeds of land sales in each new state to build roads to that state.21 Despite eastern resistance, Congress made regular appropriations for continued construction
                    of the Cumberland Road.22
            
            Another project vital to many Indiana settlers was the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. In 1824 Congress had granted a right of way one hundred eighty feet
                    wide and authorized the state to build a canal connecting the 
                        Wabash
                     and Maumee rivers, ultimately to create a waterway between the
                        Ohio River and Lake Erie. The General Assembly did not accept the grant,
                    however, because there was no way to finance construction.23 In 1826 Hendricks
                    laid before the Senate a bill that would have given Indiana a strip of land three miles wide on each
                    side of the proposed canal to finance its construction. The bill that became law the next year
                    granted alternate sections in a strip ten miles wide.24
            
            During debate Hendricks attempted to answer all constitutional arguments against federal aid to this
                    project. 
                  
                     20 Lee Burns, The National Road in Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. VII, No. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 216–20.
                  
                     21
                            Register of Debates, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 118–19 (January 23,
                            1828).
                  
                     22 See Philip D. Jordan, The National Road (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948) for a popular account of the construction of this famous road and life
                            and work along it.
                  
                     23
                            Annals of Congress, 18 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 3252–53 (May
                            26, 1824); Senate Journal, 19 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 124), 153
                            (February 20, 1826).
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, March 21, 1826; Register of Debates, 19
                            Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix xix-xx (March 2, 1827).
               
                     Citing the Ordinance of 1787, which provided that "the
                    navigable waters leading into the 
                        Mississippi
                     and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways,
                    and forever free," he contended that by this provision the "portage, between the
                    navigable points of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Miami of Lake Erie [Maumee River], is declared to be a common
                    highway," and the national government had assumed responsibility for maintaining and
                    developing it.25
            
            Hendricks attributed passage of the canal bill at this time to the fact that Indian titles to land in
                    the area had been extinguished, and surveys had shown the canal's feasibility. Others gave
                    considerable credit to him. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, "The faithful exertions of Mr. H. to promote" the 
                        Wabash
                     canal and "every other work calculated to add to the glory and advantage of
                    the country at large, has excited feelings of gratitude, deeply implanted in the hearts of his
                    fellow citizens." Later an anonymous commentator gave Hendricks credit for developing the
                    plan to grant the state alternate sections in a strip five miles wide on each side of the canal to
                    finance construction; and he also credited him with steering the 
                        Wabash
                     canal bill through Congress in 1826 and 1827 with the help of Representative Daniel
                    Webster from 
                        Massachusetts
                     and Speaker of the House John W. Taylor from 
                        New York
                    .26
            
            When Hendricks entered the Senate in 1825, Indians still held the greater part of Indiana north of
                    the Wabash River plus several tracts south of it. The next year the Potawatomi
                    and Miami tribes relinquished an estimated three million acres lying north of the 
                        Wabash
                     and extending from the Tippecanoe River to the 
                        Ohio
                     line.27
            
            In 1828 Hendricks believed that the Potawatomi were ready to give up another large area in
                    northeastern Indiana. When Congress appropriated funds for treating with several tribes for the
                    cession of lands in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , he asked the executive department to include Indiana land in the negotiations though
                    it was not mentioned in the appropriation 
                  
                     25 Commager, Documents of American History, 131; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 20, 1827.
                  
                     26 See below, p. 146; editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 27, 1827; communication, August 22, 1842, in 
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, September 7, 1842.
                  
                     27 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 111–15. See below, pp. 145–46.
               
                     bill. The president instructed the commissioners to do so, and
                    a tract of 1,200,000 acres, lying east of the headwaters of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Kankakee rivers, was acquired. Pride broke through
                    Hendricks' usual cloak of modesty, and he said privately, "The instructions too to
                    the commissioners for the purpose of this purchase emanated from the War Dept. at my special request
                    which makes it not the less satisfactory to me."28
            
            Friction between white men moving westward and Indians whom they encountered was not a new problem,
                    but it was becoming an acute one in the South. The westward migration of cotton planters was
                    creating irresistible pressure for more land, and fearing "degradation and
                    extermination" of the Indians, President James Monroe in 1825 suggested removal as a way to
                    "not only shield them from impending ruin, but promote their welfare and
                    happiness." He intended to compensate them generously for their property; grant them
                    adequate lands beyond the reach of encroaching white men; and establish for them a suitable system
                    of government. In 1828 President John Quincy Adams also recommended Indian removal, which he
                    believed would "do justice to those unfortunate children of nature" and
                    "secure to the members of our confederation their rights of sovereignty and of
                        soil."29 The Indian Removal Act of 1830, which was passed early in
                    Andrew Jackson's administration, authorized the president to grant western lands to the
                    eastern tribes in exchange for their lands east of the Mississippi River. The
                    struggle was not over, however, because some southern tribes were still proud enough and strong
                    enough to resist; but the die was cast.30
            
            Hendricks consistently supported the acquisition of Indian lands, but his reasons for doing so were
                    not always the same. The Indians in Indiana, he seems to have believed, should as a matter of course
                    surrender their lands to facilitate internal improvements and make room for settlers. The 
                  
                     28 John Quincy Adams, Memoirs: Comprising Portions of His
                                Diary, 1795–1848, ed. Charles Francis Adams (12 vols.,
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1874–1877), VIII, 19; William Hendricks to Edward Tiffin, October
                            16, 1828, Edward Tiffin Papers (Western Reserve Historical Society, 
                                Cleveland
                            ).
                  
                     29 James D. Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), II, 281, 416.
                  
                     30
                            Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxxii-xxxiii (May 28,
                            1830). See Arthur H. DeRosier, Jr., The Removal of the Choetaw Indians (
                                Knoxville
                            , 1970) for the development of this removal policy that became the national
                            pattern.
               
                     southern Indians, however, were to be transported west of the
                        Mississippi River by the national government to protect them from imminent
                    violence and bloodshed at the hands of encroaching white men, encouraged by their state governments.
                    Hendricks disapproved of the Indian policies of those southern states and insisted that the
                    president had authority to use military means to protect the Indians from them, but he doubted the
                    wisdom of doing so. "This is a crisis which has never arisen in the government,"
                    he said. "When it shall come it may emphatically be said that the days of the republic are
                        numbered."31
            
            Imports duties were a primary source of federal revenue, and the nation's tariff policy
                    became more controversial in the twenties. Despite the impending liquidation of the national debt
                    and reduced need for revenue, the northern, middle, and western portions of the country favored
                    raising rates to protect domestic manufacturing from foreign competition. Most southerners, however,
                    being exporters of raw materials, favored tariff reduction. The tariff question got caught up in the
                    political controversy between Jacksonians and Adams-
                        Clay
                     men, and the Tariff of 1828, called by some the "tariff of
                    abominations," satisfied no one. A moderate protectionist, Hendricks played no prominent
                    role in this legislation. He believed, however, that after the national debt had been paid custom
                    duties just high enough to cover current expenses, including internal improvements, would provide
                    adequate protection for domestic manufacturing.32
            
            Hendricks was a diligent senator who gave careful attention to the requests of his constituents and
                    defended the interests of the state of Indiana as he understood them. New states had no heritage of
                    sovereign status and were indebted to Congress for their existence. Under the terms of their
                    admission they were dependent on that body for Indian removal, the availability of land for
                    settlement, and money for the construction of internal improvements. Like many a westerner,
                    therefore, Hendricks looked more often to 
                        Washington
                     than to his state capital for power and resources, and in that sense he was a
                    nationalist. In such matters as prohibition of slavery in territories and new states, construction
                    and maintenance of internal improvements at federal expense, and 
                  
                     31 See below, pp. 139–40, 169–70,
                            176–79.
                  
                     32 See below, pp. 159–60. See Dangerfield, The
                                Awakening of American Nationalism, 279–83, for a brief treatment of this
                            unpopular tariff.
               
                     appeal of certain state supreme court decisions to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, he was a loose constructionist, advocating the supremacy of national
                    power over state power. And he often urged the exercise of that superior power to promote the
                    development of the West.
            In another sense Hendricks may be described as a states rights advocate. Concerned about
                    Congress' retention of public lands in the West in general and Indiana in particular, he
                    read those portions of the Ordinance of 1787 and the Constitution, which deal with the admission of
                    new states, like a strict constructionist. He concluded that the admission compacts were
                    unconstitutional because Indiana and other new states had not been granted sovereignty over all land
                    within their borders; and he launched a campaign to obtain the cession of all public lands to the
                    states in which they were located.
            Hendricks' apparent ambivalence on the matter of nationalism vs. states rights is, however,
                    probably an illusion. Doubtless he favored Indiana, the West, and the nation in that order and
                    supported the exercise of power at whatever level appeared most advantageous to Indiana and the
                    West.
            Hendricks' Circulars*
            
            Circular Relating to the 19th Congress, 1st Session (1825–1826)1
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, May 13, 1826.
            SIR,
            It has been my practice ever since I have been honored with a seat in Congress, at the close of every
                    session, by a short letter, to distribute among the people, such information as I was enabled in
                    that way to communicate, and which would, in my opinion, be useful or satisfactory to them. This
                    practice originated in the opinion, that as the people are 
                  
                     * The editor has attempted to reproduce these circulars as
                            closely as possible to the form in which they were originally published. Vagaries of
                            spelling, capitalization, and paragraphing have been followed exactly as in the original
                            text. In some instances stray marks or imperfections in the original have made it impossible
                            to ascertain whether or not commas or periods are used, and in these cases the editor has
                            made what seems to be the correct punctuation. Letters and words have been put in brackets
                            in two cases: where the letters were omitted in the
               
                     deeply interested in public affairs, so have they a right to be
                    informed concerning them, and, that it is the duty of the representative to give such information,
                    as often as it may be convenient for him so to do. In this view of the subject, I have thrown
                    together on the pages of a common sheet, some of the outlines of business which has occupied the
                    present session, and will endeavour to give them as general circulation as possible.
            The session has been one of much length, of considerable warmth, of discussions of many important
                    subjects, some of which are specially interesting to the Western country. Among these may be classed
                    the question of internal improvements, which has excited, and must continue to excite, much interest
                    in Congress. The new states are not the owners of the soil within their geographical boundaries.2 They are deprived of this great source of revenue, which in several of the old
                    states, has, in peace and in war, sustained their treasuries, and enabled them to engage in works of
                    this character. They are of necessity driven to Congress instead of their own Legislatures, for a
                    participation in the proceeds of the Public Lands, and they must ever continue, while in this state
                    of dependence, to urge this subject upon the attention of the General Government. The present
                    Administration has taken a stand more favourable to the new states, in relation to the power of
                    Congress 
                  spelling of the word; and where the print was too faint or fragmented and therefore not
                            legible. A [sic] has been used to indicate errors only if it was felt that
                            confusion might result over whether the mistakes were editorial, authorial, or
                            typographical. Otherwise incorrect and phonetic spellings have been retained as found.
                            Obvious repetition of the same word in the text has been deleted. The spelling of Indian
                            names has followed that in the original text. When names first appear in the text,
                            identification of persons or places has been made in either brackets or footnotes. In cases
                            where geographic locations, acts of Congress, or other types of potentially unclear
                            references are made, bracketed information has been added to clarify the text. These
                            circulars are printed in full, except for deletions made for land bills which Hendricks
                            included in the circulars. For these a summary and citation for each bill have been
                            provided. These circulars are taken from photocopies of the originals.
                  
                     1 This circular is reprinted from a broadside in the John Tipton
                            Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). This session of Congress convened December 5, 1825, and adjourned May 22,
                            1826.
                  
                     2 When new states were admitted to the Union, the 
                                United States
                             typically retained ownership of all public land within their respective
                            boundaries and prohibited its taxation while public and for five years after it passed into
                            private hands. For the terms of Indiana's admission see Annals of
                                Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 1841–44 (April 19, 1816).
               
                     to construct roads and canals, than any former one.3 Former Presidents had generally denied that power, and had, in, various forms,
                    given much effect to their opinions, even to the placing of their veto on bills.4 This question has still to struggle in every movement, against the settled opposition of the
                    great mass of the southern states, and those from the north, who believe that Congress has no
                    constitutional power over the subject.
            The southern states generally deny the power of the General Government to construct roads and canals.
                    They deny all power which is not so plainly laid down in the constitution, as to put at defiance,
                    contradiction, and doubt. Their policy is to make the General Government weak, and the state
                    Governments strong; and this policy seems to be based on the great question of slavery, on which the
                    states are unfortunately separated, by opinions and interests, strong and inflexible. The southern
                    states seem to fear, that if power is admitted to exist in the Government of the Union, that the
                    power of Legislation on the subject of their slaves, will finally be assumed, and that, in this way,
                    the wealth and political condition of the slave-holding states may be totally changed. Their fears
                    are certainly groundless, but they nevertheless exist.
            As much however, if not more, has been done in favor of this great interest of the country, during
                    the present session, as at any previous one. The construction of the Cumberland road between 
                        Wheeling
                     and 
                        Zanesville
                     will progress the present year, $110,000 having been appropriated for that
                    purpose. The location of that road will also be extended westwardly from 
                        Columbus
                    , the ensuing summer. The commissioner employed by the General Government has recently
                    been here. He will commence his operations in a few days; will spend some time in the final location
                    of a section of the 
                  
                     3 President John Quincy Adams favored direct expenditures of federal
                            funds and federal aid to state and private enterprise for constructing and
                            maintaining' internal improvements. See James D. Richardson, ed., A
                                Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), II, 388–89.
                  
                     4 President James Madison vetoed a bill that pledged funds, accruing
                            to the 
                                United States
                             from the national bank, to the building of roads and canals. President James
                            Monroe vetoed a bill providing that tolls be collected along the Cumberland Road to finance
                            maintenance of that road. In each instance the president considered the bill
                            unconstitutional. See Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
                            I, 584–85; II, 142–43.
               
                     road east of 
                        Zanesville
                    , and in a reconnoissance of a new route between that place and 
                        Columbus
                    , after which he will proceed westwardly; will reach Indiana the ensuing summer, but
                    will perhaps be unable to complete the location through that state during the present year.5
            
            A bill to connect by Canal communication the navigable waters of the 
                        Wabash
                    , with those of the Miami of Lake Erie [Maumee River] at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , was reported at an early period of the session. It proposed to give to the state of
                    Indiana a quantity of land equal to three sections on each side of the Canal, along its whole line,
                    from one end thereof to the other, for the purpose of aiding the state in constructing the Canal.
                    This bill, owing to the pending mass of business, the magnitude of the appropriation which it
                    proposes, and the constitutional question of the power of Congress over the subject of internal
                    improvement, will not become a law during the present session. The partial discussions however,
                    which have taken place in the Senate on the merits of this bill, are by no means discouraging. The
                    objection too, which is based on the want of a survey of the route, will probably be removed before
                    the next session.
            We must hope for its success at a future day. Few subjects of magnitude are ever matured during the
                    same session at which they are introduced, and however reasonable and right this and other measures
                    may appear to us, who know the situation of our country and its fair claims, we have the arduous
                    task of convincing others, who know nothing about our country, of the justness of those claims. We
                    must not ask too much lest we get nothing, nor must we ask to many things at once, lest we weary
                    those who have the power of giving.
            It is the intention of the War Department to detail an Engineer of the 
                        United States
                     to survey Canal routes in our state, during the present year. He will be specially
                    directed to make surveys and estimates of the White Water Canal,6 and of the 
                        Wabash
                     Canal, as soon as the extinguishment of Indian title on the northern margin of that
                    river will make it advisable that the work be commenced. He will also be 
                  
                     5 The Cumberland Road was routed through 
                        Richmond, Indianapolis
                     , and 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     6 The Whitewater Canal was intended to pass through the eastern tier
                            of counties and connect the Cumberland Road and the Ohio River.
               
                     instructed to repair to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     during low water next fall, and make minute surveys and estimates of the route of a
                    Canal on the Indiana side.7 This has never yet been done by an officer of the U.
                    States, of course no survey of that route, clothed with official authority or certainty, has ever
                    been submitted to the general Government.
            An inland coastwise navigation is contemplated by the friends of internal improvement, to progress
                    southwardly from 
                        Boston
                     to 
                        Florida
                    , and the survey of a Canal route across the Peninsula of East 
                        Florida
                    , has been authorized during the present session. The survey of the 
                        Florida
                     coast will also be extended [westward] along the sounds and inlets of the coast to the
                        Perdido,8 under the authority of the Secretary of War. The value of this
                    inland navigation must be apparent to all. It will save our immense coasting trade from the dangers
                    of the open sea, and afford it protection from an enemy in time of war. It will also give to that
                    trade the advantages of cheap and expeditious transportation. To the Western country, this inland
                    navigation along the coasts of the Gulph of 
                        Mexico
                    , through the Canal of the Peninsula, to the Atlantic markets, will be most valuable. It
                    will open to our produce more extensive markets, and give great facilities in approaching them. An
                    appropriation has been made in aid of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     canal company,9 and an appropriation will probably, before the
                    rising of the session, be made to the Dismal Swamp canal.10
            
            A bill for the relief of Bigger's rangers has at length passed the Senate, and is before the
                    House of Representatives. It authorises full pay to that company as [dis]mounted rangers, for the
                    time they were dismounted, and full pay as mounted rangers from the 13th March 1814, to the 24th of
                        
                  
                     7 Hendricks had been unsuccessfully promoting a canal to bypass the
                            Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             on the Indiana side of the river for almost a decade. For a survey of his long
                            term efforts on behalf of such a canal see Frederick D. Hill, "William Hendricks:
                            Indiana Politician and Western Advocate, 1812–1850" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 1972), 42–46, 87–92,
                            163–64, 220–24.
                  
                     8 The Perdido River is now the western boundary
                            of 
                                Florida
                            .
                  
                     9
                            
                                Kentucky
                             had chartered this company in 1825, and now Congress appropriated
                            $100,000 to purchase up to 1,000 shares of its stock. See R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 436; Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix xiii (May 13, 1826).
                  
                     10 Congress appropriated $150,000 to purchase up to 600
                            shares in the Dismal Swamp Canal to be built in southeastern 
                                Virginia
                            . See Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xx (May
                            18, 1826).
               
                     the same month. It also gives them pay as dismounted rangers,
                    from the period last mentioned, to the 16th of May following, the time they were at home. What its
                    fate may be in the House of Representatives, is not yet known.11
            
            A bill has passed the Senate, appropriating money to defray the expenses of a treaty with the Indians
                    in our state, for the extinguishment of their title to the residue of the 
                        Wabash
                     lands, and as much of the country towards the Southern bend of Lake
                    Michigan as can be procured. Should the appropriation be made, a treaty may be expected
                    next fall.12
            
            The finances of every nation, in every age of the world, have always been, and must ever continue to
                    be, a most important interest. On this depends their prosperity in peace, and their energy in war. A
                    nation great in resources, and having those resources under their own control, are capable of
                    sustaining great emergencies, and of pressing forward in rapid strides of improvement to wealth,
                    intelligence and respectability. The revenues of a nation should be unembarrassed with debt, and
                    equitable in their assessments upon the people. They should be expended with economy, and industry
                    should not be burthened with dispensable contributions upon the people.
            The revenue of the 
                        United States
                     is principally derived from the customs; a tax on foreign goods imported, and the sales
                    of the public lands. It has always been embarrassed, and the general burdens increased by a national
                    debt. This debt had its origin in the Revolutionary war, a war into which the colonies were plunged
                    without any preparation, and which the condition of the country was unable to furnish the means of
                    carrying on during its progress. A necessity existed to substitute credit for capital, and a
                    national debt was the consequence. The payment of this debt was very properly assumed by the
                    Government after the peace, and it would have tarnished our national character, if so important a
                    mean by which our liberties had been achieved, had not been provided 
                  
                     11 This company of Indiana militia, commanded by Captain James Bigger,
                            had not been paid in full for its federal service during the War of 1812. The compensation
                            formula enacted was complex and different from that described here. See Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxxv (May 20, 1826).
                  
                     12 Congress appropriated $15,000 for the expense of this
                            treaty. See Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxii (May 20,
                            1826).
               
                     for at the close of the war.13 This debt in
                    1791, amounted to $75,000,000, and previous to the late war [War of 1812] it had been
                    reduced to about $43,000,000. The last war added to that sum upwards of
                    $100,000,000, but by every fiscal exertion, based on an unparallelled revenue from the
                    customs, for several years, immediately succeeding the war, it was in October last reduced to about
                    $80,000,000. The revenue is at present in a prosperous condition, and perhaps no other
                    interest is so well calculated to show the vast resources of the country; for it is estimated that
                    this 80,000,000, will be paid in less than ten years, by the ordinary application of the means now
                    in existence, and of the system now in successful operation.
            The current expenditures of the government for the year 1826, including the army, navy, pensions and
                    civil list, will amount to little more than ten millions. For the same year we pay ten millions for
                    the principal and interest of the public debt, and the revenue to be received is estimated at
                    twenty-five and a half millions. The tariff which was adopted two years ago, a measure having for
                    its object the protection of our manufactures, and from which so much evil was predicted, has had a
                    beneficial effect. On some articles on which the duties were raised, there has been an increase of
                    importations; and the increase of our exports, is not only evidence of our national prosperity, but
                    is flattering to our national pride. The gross amount of Custom House duties during the last fiscal
                    year, is stated at six millions greater than in any year since the excessive importations of
                    1815-'16.
            The perplexing question with the Creek nation of Indians, and with the state of 
                        Georgia
                     on the same subject, has finally been put to rest. The treaty of the Indian Springs,
                    which was ratified on the 7th March, 1825, had been negociated with that portion of the Creek
                    nation, which was headed by the celebrated chief Gen. [William] M'Intosh; but had not been
                    finally agreed to by the residue of the tribe. M'Intosh had been friendly to the whites,
                    through the late Creek and Seminole wars. He had headed his party in several campaigns under General
                    [Andrew] Jackson, and had been a most efficient 
                  
                     13 The new government, established in 1789 under the 
                                United States
                             Constitution, had funded the debt incurred by the "national"
                            government during the Revolutionary War and assumed the outstanding state debts incurred in
                            the cause of independence.
               
                     partizan warrior against the hostile Creeks. He was justly
                    esteemed as the friend of the white people. But that spirit of revenge, which is so great an
                    ingredient in the Indian character, still existed against him. He had not been forgiven by the
                    nation, for the part he had taken in their recent wars, however great his apparent influence among
                    them. A large majority of the nation disagreed to the treaty, and shortly after its signature, put
                    him to death. It was impossible that the treaty of the Indian Springs could ever be carried into
                    execution. This was foreseen early last summer, and large deputations of both parties were by the
                    President, invited to repair to the City of 
                        Washington
                    , where they have been all winter. Another treaty has been negociated with them, and
                    ratified by the Senate. The policy of the government is to remove them west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , whither they will generally go. This measure seems necessary for their preservation;
                    for surrounded by the increasing settlements of 
                  Georgia,
                            Alabama
               , and 
                        Florida
                    , they must finally become extinct. They cannot, and will not adopt for their
                    subsistence agricultural pursuits, and their country is to limited for them to live by the chase.
            Another land bill has recently passed, extending the provisions of former relief laws to the 4th day
                    of July, 1827. In relation to interest, it is more favorable than the acts of 1824. The law itself
                    will be more satisfactory than any thing I could say about it. It is as follows:14
            
            The bill to graduate the price of Public Lands, has not yet been acted on, and the important change
                    it proposes to make in the land system, will probably prevent its passage during the present
                    session. The passage of some bill, to reduce the price of inferior lands in old settlements, is
                    equitable, and is demanded by the situation of the country. Of the success of such bill, there is,
                    perhaps at no very distant day, 
                  
                     14 See Register of Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix xii-xiii (May 4, 1826) for the relief law here omitted. In 1820 Congress had
                            discontinued the credit sale of public land at two dollars per acre and instituted a cash
                            price of $1.25 per acre. In 1824 persons still in debt for land purchased on
                            credit were permitted to relinquish part of their land and pay for the remainder at
                            $1.25 per acre by applying the payments previously made. The 1826 statute
                            extended this privilege to 1827; it authorized for one year the redemption of lands subject
                            to foreclosure and already forfeited lands at $1.25 per acre; and it extended a
                            similar discount to purchasers who had received extended credit under the relief law of 1821
                            but were not then in arrears.
               
                     good prospect; but the subject at present is likely to remain
                    on the list of unfinished business.15
            
            A bill has passed the Senate, giving, under certain conditions, to relinquishers of lands, the
                    original price of which was less than five dollars per acre, the right of becoming purchasers of the
                    same, at private sale, at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.
            The question of sending ministers to the Congress of South American Republics assembled at 
                        Panama
                    , has been a fruitful source of discussion, and of discord, during the greater part of
                    the present session. Our Government had been respectfully invited to send ministers, with the
                    express understanding, that these ministers would not be expected to share in any deliberations
                    which might "in the least compromit the present neutrality of the 
                        United States
                    ." That invitation had been accepted by the President, in the spirit in which
                    it had been given.16 I voted for this mission in every shape and form in which
                    it was presented to the Senate, viewing as I still do, this proposition, to be nothing more than a
                    continuance of that kindred and friendly policy, towards our republican brethren of the South, which
                    originated in the House of Representatives about seven years ago, and which finally triumphed by an
                    almost unanimous vote, on the question of recognizing their independence of 
                        Spain
                    . In 1820 and '21, various propositions were submitted to the House of
                    Representatives, favourable to the cause of the patriots, and their success in the struggle in which
                    they were then engaged. In favor of those propositions at that day, I cheerfully recorded my name;
                    and in 1822, when the question of recognizing their independence was presented by President Monroe,
                    had also an opportunity of giving a similar vote. The same arguments which were then used against
                    those measures, have been used on the present occasion. A fear of the displeasure of 
                        Spain
                    , and the Holy Alliance of Europe, was the sound of the opposition to the South American
                    cause at that 
                  
                     15 Congress passed neither the graduation bill nor the one mentioned
                            below that would have permitted the repurchase of relinquished land under certain
                            conditions.
                  
                     16 On December 26, 1825, President Adams nominated Richard C. Anderson
                            of 
                                Kentucky
                             and John Sergeant of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             as emissaries to the Panama Congress, but it was the middle of March before the
                            Senate approved their nominations. See Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                                Presidents, II, 318–20; Register of Debates, 19 Cong.,
                            1 Sess., 151 (March 14, 1826).
               
                     day. It is so still. In 1822, the Spanish Cortes expressly
                    declared, that they would "regard at any epoch, as a violation of treaties, the
                    recognition, either partial or absolute, of the independence of the Spanish Provinces."17 Our Government at that time was not intimidated, but pursued its own course.
                    This course has resulted in much political prosperity to the republics of the South. We have not
                    been, as was predicted, involved in war, on account of our policy then adopted. There is, in my
                    opinion, no danger of any such result at the present time.
            The Congress of Panama presented an occasion, which should not have been passed by unheeded. The
                    agents of 
                        England
                    , and in all probability of other European nations, will be at that Congress. It is a
                    theatre worthy of their notice; and shall we fold our arms in indifference, and talk about
                    jeopardizing our peaceful relations with 
                        Spain
                    ? Is a growing incalculable commerce, with more than twenty millions of people, on our
                    own borders, unworthy our attention? Are the productions of so large a country of the torrid zone,
                    unimportant in the great estimate of our foreign commerce?
            The revenues drawn from South America, and 
                        Mexico
                    , have sustained the Spanish monarchy for ages, under the most oppressive and despotic
                    system of Government. In 1809, that revenue in 
                        Mexico
                     alone, amounted to twenty millions. The three fourths of their exports have been, and
                    will no doubt again be the products of their mines; and that country whose merchandize is the
                    precious metals, may be said to command the resources of the World. Let the mines of the south be
                    closed against Europe, and in what condition would be their circulating medium? Where would be the
                    paper system of 
                        England
                    ? Take away our own supplies of the precious metals of the south, and where would be our
                    own paper system? The natural direction of the commerce of those countries is that of the gulph
                    stream; our own harbours and commercial cities. It would naturally come to the mouths of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and meet and mingle with our commerce there. The agricultural productions of the west
                    would find their best markets in the south. But neglecting this important interest it may take a
                    different direction. The commerce of 
                  
                     17 Report of the Commission of the Cortes on the Affairs of Spanish
                            America, February 12, 1822, in Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix 2128.
               
                     these Republics will in all probability, in a very short time
                    be worth more to us than that of all the world besides. Nor can we look with indifference on their
                    political condition. We cannot it is true make common cause with them against 
                        Spain
                    . This is not our policy. But there is such a thing as social and fraternal feeling
                    among nations, as well as individuals. It is easier and more agreeable for nations governed by the
                    same description of laws, and the same forms of Government, to keep up friendly and commercial
                    relations, than for nations differing in these respects; and especially as in the present case,
                    where they have passed through the same struggles and conflicts for their liberties. And if there be
                    any political society for us, it must be with the Republics of the south. The Republics of ancient
                    times have long since passed away; they have been overthrown by their own dissentions, or deluged by
                    the wars which have so often agitated Europe. There is now no Grecian republic, no Roman
                    commonwealth, no republican States General of Holland, no national assembly of 
                        France
                    . We can associate with republics in no other quarter of the Globe. The present however
                    is an important era in the political history of the World. A greater number of nations are now
                    governed by the elective and representative principles than at any former period of which history
                    gives us any information.
            These friendly feelings however towards the patriots of the south ought not to induce us to change
                    our national policy. This policy is peace, commerce and friendship with all nations, entangling
                    alliances with none. There are many causes of war, which might exist between them and other nations
                    with which I would not interfere.
            I would not go to war in the belligerent struggles between 
                        Spain
                     and her former Colonies. I would not, though the Holy Alliance should march combined
                    Europe against the Republics of the South, unless that combination assumed the attitude of a war
                    against Republican principles. But in that event I would join the coalition of the South American
                    States, I would assume the attitude of a belligerent in the great cause of republics. The civil as
                    well as the military Departments of the Government should be summoned to the occasion. I would put
                    in requisition our 74's,18 and every thing 
                  
                     18 These warships, armed with seventy-four guns, were the big
                            battleships of that day.
               
                     else which could float upon the water, and would estimate the
                    fleets and armies of the Holy Alliance as inimical to the liberities of the world. Such a cause
                    would be worthy of a great effort. It would demand that effort though it should be the last. It
                    would be our own cause as well as that of South America; for a coalition of emperors and kings
                    against the liberties of the world, would never sheath its sword at the Isthmus of Darien or the
                    confines of 
                        Mexico
                    . It would justly view this Government as the pernicious example which had excited
                    rebellion in the provinces of 
                        Spain
                    , and be satisfied only, when it had prostrated the liberties of these U. States.
            The session will close the 22d of the present month.
            With much respect, Your obedient servant,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 19th Congress, 2nd Session (1826–1827)19
            
            [
                        Washington City
                    , March 1, 1827]
            The present session of Congress has so far progressed, and is likely to terminate, without having
                    been employed on many subjects of great importance to the nation at large. More tranquility has
                    existed, and a greater degree of harmony and good feeling has prevailed, than at the last session.
                    It has not, however, been without a sufficient degree of excitement to produce variety and novelty,
                    and to keep all the materials of the political system in healthful activity. The foreign relations
                    of the country have made a less considerable figure, than at the last session. We have, however,
                    been drawn into commercial difficulties with Great Britain on the subject of her colonial trade, and
                    Mr [Joel] POINSETT, our Minister to 
                        Mexico
                    , has been appointed to the Congress of American Nations, instead of Mr. ANDERSON.20
            
            The Bankrupt Bill was introduced at an early period of the session, and after able and lengthy
                    discussions, was negatived 
                  
                     19 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Palladium, March 24, 1827 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 4, 1826, and adjourned March 3, 1827.
                  
                     20 This assembly is usually known as the Panama Congress. Richard C.
                            Anderson, who was also 
                                United States
                             minister to the Republic of 
                                Colombia
                            , had died en route from Bogota.
               
                     by a considerable majority in the Senate. It may be considered
                    at rest for years to come.
            A Bill to increase the tariff on woollen goods imported, also attracted much attention of the House,
                    passed that body, and is now before the Senate. It embraces the principal article of British
                    Manufacture imported into this country; one which, more largely than any other article, puts the
                    balance of trade against us. The want of time will probably prevent its passage in the Senate.21
            
            A Bill has passed the Senate, repealing in part the duty on Salt. It proposes to diminish the duty
                    one-half the present year, and altogether the next. This duty produces a revenue, amounting to near
                    $700,000 per annum; a sum almost as large as that derived to the Government from all the
                    public lands. It is chiefly paid near the seaboard, for nature seems to have furnished the great
                    interior of the country with the means of manufacturing this article. The people on the seaboard
                    procure that article now as cheaply as it can be manufactured in the interior, and the repeal of
                    this duty would materially depress the manufacturers, as well as injure the Treasury.
            The Session, although productive of few measures of national character, has been one of great
                    importance to our State. The treaties concluded on the 
                        Wabash
                     near the mouth of Mississinowa in October last, required the sanction of the Senate.
                    They had extinguished the Indian title to a district of country of great value, in extent about
                    3,000,000 of acres, including the whole valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    , from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . But these treaties looked in some degree to the Internal Improvement of the State. In
                    the one, provision had been made for a road from Lake Michigan, by 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to the Ohio river, and the other contemplated the location of a
                    canal along the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    . The constitution requires a concurrence of two thirds to the ratification of a treaty,
                    and more than one third of the Senate are opposed to the constitutional power of Congress to
                    construct roads and canals. These treaties were pending in the secret sessions of the Senate till
                    the 23d of January. They are, however, ratified as they were signed, with the exception of one
                    clause, in reference to the road from the Lake to the Ohio river.
            
               
                  21 No tariff law was enacted at this time, and the duties on wool and salt
                        remained the same.
            
            
            By the treaty with the Potawatamies, a strip of land had been granted to the U. States for the
                    location of the road, and one section for every mile, from Lake Michigan to the 
                        Ohio
                    , had also been granted for making the road. The last provision of the grant authorized
                    the General Assembly of the State of Indiana to locate the road, & apply the sections, or
                    the proceeds thereof, to the making of the same, and put the grant at their sole disposal.22 This latter clause was stricken out on the ground that it was not competent
                    to the treaty-making power to transfer any portion of the Public Lands to the State: that this power
                    could only be exercised by Congress. By striking out this clause, the grant was retained, but the
                    agency of the State in the execution of the grant was taken away. A bill was accordingly reported,
                    authorizing the State to do precisely what the treaty intended it should do. This bill has already
                    passed both Houses.23
            
            The 
                        Wabash
                     Canal bill has passed both Houses, and become a law. It was reported on the 23d of
                    January, immediately after the advice and consent of the Senate to the ratification of the treaties
                    had been obtained. It proposed to give the State, for canal purposes, six sections in width, along
                    the line of the canal, but was amended before its passage, and grants, by alternate sections, the
                    one half of five sections on each side of the canal; being the one half of ten miles wide, instead
                    of the whole of six miles wide. The grant is liberal, and will, no doubt, if judiciously managed,
                    make the canal. A similar bill was reported to the Senate at the last session; but, at that time,
                    there had been no extinguishment of Indian title—no surveys of the route. The bill,
                    however, was not rejected. It remained on the list of unfinished business at the close of the
                    session. The debates on this bill, at the last session, shewed the great necessity for the
                    extinguishment of Indian title on the 
                        Wabash
                    , and of a survey of the route; and accordingly the Secretary of War [James Barbour],
                    was strongly solicited by the whole delegation from the State, to detail an Engineer of the 
                        United States
                    , for the 
                  
                     22 One of the commissioners treating with the Indians was Governor
                            James B. Ray of Indiana.
                  
                     23 Because he suggested in 1818 the construction of a military road
                            from the Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             to the southern tip of Lake Michigan, Hendricks is
                            credited with having originated the 
                                Michigan
                             Road idea. See Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            1113–14 (March 6, 1818); Geneal Prather, "The Struggle for the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX (March,
                            1943), 6.
               
                     purpose of making surveys, plans, and estimates of canal routes
                    in Indiana. In this request, the 
                        Wabash
                     canal, the White Water canal, and an union by canals of the waters of the 
                        Wabash
                     with Lake Michigan, were named. An Engineer was accordingly
                    detailed; but owing to the sickness of the hands, and the death of the Engineer, the work was
                    retarded early in the season, and is not yet completed. The Secretary of War will again be requested
                    to direct the continuation and completion of these surveys the ensuing season. Such progress,
                    however, had been made in the survey of the 
                        Wabash
                     canal, as to determine its practicability. It is ascertained that the summit level
                    between the waters of the 
                        Wabash
                     and those of the Lake is only 25 feet above the low water of the Miami, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    : that a cut of twelve or fourteen feet on the summit is all that will be required, and
                    that a short feeder from the 
                        St. Joseph
                    's will supply this summit with a sufficiency of water. The ascertainment of
                    these facts have been of great utility in the passage of the canal bill through the Senate, and will
                    forever put to rest all doubts about the practicality of the work.
            The Cumberland road will progress westwardly the ensuing season. $170,000 is appropriated
                    to complete its construction to 
                        Zanesville
                    , and to progress with its location through the States of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , to the seat of Government of 
                        Missouri
                    . West of 
                        Zanesville
                    , having passed the broken country of 
                        Ohio
                    , it is expected to progress with more rapidity, and with much less expense. An
                    appropriation of $30,000 has also been made, and put at the disposal of the President,
                    for the surveys of roads and canals, in the various States and Territories.
            A bill has been reported to the House of Representatives, but at too late a period to become a law,
                    authorizing "in all cases where public lands have been purchased and reverted to the 
                        United States
                     for failure to pay the purchase money, or have been sold by the 
                        United States
                     by reason of such failure to pay," the Register of the Land Office where the
                    entry was made, to issue to the person legally entitled, a certificate for the amount so paid, which
                    shall be received in payment for other lands.24
            
            A Bill has again passed the Senate, giving, under certain conditions, to relinquishers of land, the
                    original price of 
                  
                     24 No changes in public land policy were made at this time.
               
                     which was less than six dollars per acre, the right of becoming
                    purchasers of the same, at private sale, at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.25
            
            The bill to graduate the price of public lands is yet among the orders of the day, and has not been
                    finally acted on by either House. Nor is there any probability that it will become a law in any
                    shape, during the present session. It proposes a great change in the land system of our country, and
                    presents a fit occasion for an attempt, at least, to make that change valuable to the new States. It
                    has long been my opinion, that the public lands, of right, belong to the States in which they lie;
                    that the new States are unjustly deprived of their public domain, by the compacts with the Federal
                        Government,26 which ought never to have been entered into; and that this,
                    being an unnatural state of things, cannot last.
            Impressed with this belief, and unwilling that the occasion should be lost, when this bill received
                    the partial consideration of the Senate early in January, I proposed, in the form of an amendment,
                        that the public and unappropriated lands, within the limits of the new States,
                        should be ceded and relinquished, in full property, to the several States ni[sic] which they lie.
               27
            
            The abstract proposition had frequently been mentioned, in debate, and in the form of resolutions,
                    but it had never before been submitted to the Legislative consideration of Congress. The opinion it
                    expresses has been gaining ground 
                  
                     25 This limited preemption concept, giving settlers who still occupied
                            land that they had purchased and then relinquished the privilege of repurchasing it at the
                            minimum price rather than at public auction, could not be delayed much longer. Preemption as
                            a "squatter's" right was not obtained until 1841.
                  
                     26 To use Indiana as a typical example, as a condition of admission to
                            the Union the state agreed to a compact providing that public land located in the state
                            remained the property of Congress and would be exempt from state taxation while public and
                            for five years after passing into private hands. In return Indiana received some salt
                            springs; land grants for education and for the seat of government; and five percent of the
                            net proceeds from the sale of public lands in Indiana after December 1, 1816, for building
                            roads and canals. Three fifths of this money was to be spent by the legislature to improve
                            transportation within the state; two fifths was to be spent by Congress to build roads to
                            the state. See Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix
                            1841–44 (April 19, 1816).
                  
                     27 According to the Ordinance of 1787, Congress would retain title to
                            the public lands within states created in the Old Northwest, and those states could neither
                            tax such lands nor interfere with Congress' disposal of them. See Henry S.
                            Commager, ed., Documents of American History (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 131.
               
                     for years past, and it appeared to me, that the time had
                    arrived when it should be made. Whatever the fate of this proposition may be, there can be little
                    doubt of its justice and expediency, both in reference to the new States, and to the Union. Of its
                    success in any short period of time, no one ought to be sanguine. The new states have as yet no
                    controlling influence or numbers in the councils of the nation. In submitting this proposition I
                    have discharged in part, a duty to the State; a duty which will demand my un-remitted exertions,
                    while any reasonable prospect of its success shall remain. The new states were guarantied admission
                    into the Union, "on an equal footing with the original states, in all respects
                    whatever;" & it is in vain to pretend that this equality exists,
                    while they are deprived of their public lands; while in seventeen States, the waste and
                    unappropriated lands belong to the States, and in seven States these lands belong to the Federal
                    Government. It is mockery to tell the new States that they are equal in sovereignty to the old
                    States, while they are deprived of the first object of sovereignty: their public domain. The day
                    must come, and I hope it is not far distant, when this proposition will prevail.
            Of the Congress of Panama, which excited so much attention during the last session, and to which it
                    was determined to send ministers, but little as yet is known. Its organization did not take place
                    till the 15th of June last, and the time and place were alike unpropitious for the meeting. One of
                    our ministers, Mr. Anderson,28 died on his way to Panama; and so far advanced
                    was the season, before Congress had determined on the mission, and passed the necessary
                    appropriations, that the departure from the 
                        United States
                     of Mr. Sergeant,29 our other minister, was not directed by the
                    President until the ensuing autumn. In addition to the advanced season of the year it was reasonable
                    to expect that the Congress would have closed its first session before he could have arrived. These
                    circumstances have deprived the Government of the 
                        United States
                     of the means of knowing as much about that Congress as it would be satisfactory and
                    perhaps important to know.
            
               
                  28 See footnotes 16 and 20 above.
               
                  29 See footnote 16 above.
            
            
            This much, however is known, that the assembly was formed of the plenipotentiaries of
                            
                  Peru, Mexico
               ,
                    Central America, and 
                        Colombia
                    . The republic of Chili did not send her ministers, her attention being too much
                    occupied with the war in that quarter, which had not then terminated. Buenos Ayres [
                        Argentina
                    ] had shown no inclination to send her plenipotentiaries; and the independence of Upper 
                        Peru
                     or Bolivar [
                        Bolivia
                    ] had not been fully established. Political agents from 
                        England
                    , and from the Netherlands, attended at 
                        Panama
                    ; one of which returned home, and the other has already repaired to the place assigned
                    for the meeting of the next session of the Congress. Various causes, and especially the
                    unhealthiness of the place, rendered it advisable to terminate its session as speedily as possible;
                    and accordingly, on the 15th of July, it adjourned, to meet at Tacubaya, in the neighborhood of
                    Mexico [City], where its subsequent sessions are to be held.
            Com. Porter,30 now in the Mexican service, and in the command of her Naval
                    forces, has been cruising in the West India Seas. The Spanish Naval armament in
                    those seas is greatly superior to that which they have been in the habit of keeping there, and their
                    defences on the shores of those Islands are more formidable than usual. Whether these military and
                    naval preparations on the part of old 
                        Spain
                    , are intended merely to defend her insular possessions in the West Indies, or whether
                    another attack on the Republics of the South be meditated, is not known; nor is it ascertained
                    whether the armament under Commodore Porter was intended as a descent upon 
                        Cuba
                    , or to keep in check the Spanish squadron, and annoy the Spanish commerce in the West
                    Indies.
            Perfect tranquility has not, during the last year, prevailed in all the Republics of the South.
                    [Simon] Bolivar had long been absent from 
                        Colombia
                    . He had led the victorious armies of the revolution in Chili and 
                        Peru
                    ; had fought and triumphed at 
                        Ayachuco
                    , and had seen the last struggle of the power of 
                        Spain
                     on the continent, at the Garrison and the Castle of Callao.31 A
                    period and an absence of five years, had set in motion the discordant elements of his own country,
                        
                  
                     30 Commodore David Porter had resigned from the 
                                United States
                             Navy after being court martialed for violating international law while trying
                            to suppress piracy in the Caribbean Sea.
                  
                     31 Ayachuco is in the mountainous interior of 
                                Peru
                            ; Callao is on the coast near Lima.
               
                     and disunion and anarchy prevailed at home. But his presence
                    instantly restored order and harmony, and he was hailed with enthusiasm, as the saviour of his
                    country. He has on this recent occasion given additional pledges to surrender the extraordinary
                    powers, with which he is clothed by the constitution, as soon as the emergencies of the occasion,
                    and the liberties of his country will permit.
            Another speck of War has recently appeared in Europe. The Emperor of the Brazils, who had fallen heir
                    to the crown of Portugal, by the death of his father, the reigning king, had abdicated the throne of
                    that kingdom, in favor of the present Queen; and, as a last testimonial of his affection for the
                    Portuguese nation, had given them a Constitution similar to that which had recently existed in 
                        Spain
                    . The Spanish monarchy, alarmed at the re-appearance of liberal principles in Europe,
                    attempted to put down by military force the constitution of Portugal, as that of 
                        Spain
                     had recently been put down by 
                        France
                    , and that of Naples by 
                        Austria
                    . In this state of affairs, application was made by the reigning dynasty of Portugal to 
                        England
                    , her ancient ally, for aid in repelling the armies of 
                        Spain
                    . This aid was promptly afforded, and this war, about which much speculation for a
                    moment existed, is likely to terminate without any considerable agitation in Europe. 
                        France
                     and other powers seem to have approved of the interposition of 
                        England
                     and 
                        Spain
                     herself will, in all probability submit to the demands of her adversaries, and leave 
                        England
                     without pretext for invasion of her insular possessions in the West Indies.
            The affairs of 
                        Greece
                     are in a wretched condition.32 The war still rages, and is most
                    sanguinary and cruel in its character. The political condition of the country is almost hopeless,
                    and, without the interposition of some of the great powers of Europe, there is but little prospect
                    of its independence. Fortunately, however, for the cause of liberty and humanity, this interposition
                    will probably take place. Recent advices from Europe state that 
                        England
                    , Russia, and 
                        France
                    , have peremptorily demanded of the Grand Seignior the independence of 
                        Greece
                    . 
            [WILLIAM HENDRICKS]
            
               
                  32 The Greek revolt against Turkish overlords had been in progress since
                        1821.
            
            
            Circular Relating to the 20th Congress, 1st Session (1827–1828)33
            
            
               
                  
                            Washington City
                        , May 20, 1828
            SIR:
            The present session, greatly protracted as it has been, and largely participating in the political
                    struggle of the time, is about coming to a close. Though much of its time has been spent in useless
                    debate, it has been engaged in, perhaps as many subjects of national importance, as any other since
                    the close of the late war.
            The tariff, a subject of deep interest to the different sections of the country, has occupied its
                    time, and distracted its counsels, more than any other. This subject, which had attracted much
                    public attention for the last year, was early presented to both Houses by petitions, memorials and
                    resolutions, from almost every city and village from 
                        Maine
                     to 
                        Louisiana
                    . Those of the northern, middle and western states, were almost unanimously in favour of
                    increased duties on importations of foreign goods, whilst those of the Southern states, were perhaps
                    more nearly unanimous in opposition to this policy. It has been the complaint of the friends of
                    domestic manufactures, that this interest has, during the present session, been partially at least,
                    in the hands of its enemies, and deeply affected by the political question, which unfortunately
                    divides and distracts the body politic.34 It was said, that a majority of the
                    committee on manufactures, if not altogether opposed to a tariff, were at least lukewarm towards the
                    measure. Whatever the fact may have been, the offspring of their deliberations, after unusual delay
                    in the collection of testimony under authority of the House, was a bill, which seemed to please no
                    one, and which, if not framed for that purpose, was calculated to produce its own destruction, by
                    being offensive to all. This bill however, after passing the House of Representatives, was much
                    amended in the Senate, and has at length become a law.35
            
            
               
                  33 This circular is reprinted from the 
                            Madison
                        
                        Indiana Republican, June 18, 1828 (Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        ). This session of Congress convened December 3, 1827, and adjourned May 26, 1828.
               
                  34 The presidential campaign of 1828 was intensely partisan as the
                        followers of Andrew Jackson revived the charge that the House had chosen John Quincy Adams over
                        Jackson in 1824 because of a "corrupt bargain" between Adams and Speaker of
                        the House Henry Clay, whom Adams then appointed secretary of state.
               
                  35 The tariff of 1828 was often called the "tariff of
                        abominations."
            
            
            A country extensive and populous as ours is, and so abundant in resourses [sic],
                    covering almost every degree of latitude in the temperate zone, is well prepared to put its domestic
                    commerce in place of foreign traffic, and to put the balance of foreign trade largely in our favour,
                    instead of being as at present, greatly against us. That is a bad policy which operates as a
                    perpetual drain of the circulating medium from any country.—Wherever this state of things
                    exists, the policy of the country must be radically wrong, and must, if persevered in, ultimate in
                    destruction.
            Another law for the relief of purchasers of the public lands, has passed during the present session.
                    It is no doubt intended to close the old credit system, and to terminate the relief measures, and it
                    is greatly to be desired, that all interested should avail themselves of its advantages. It may be
                    very difficult, if not impracticable, to procure the passage of any subsequent law on this subject.
                    A copy of the act will no doubt be acceptable. It is as follows:36
            
            A bill has again passed the Senate, giving under certain restrictions, preemption rights to those who
                    have relinquished lands under the provisions of the several acts for the relief of purchasers of
                    public lands, and authorizing such persons to purchase the same at private sale at a fixed price.37
            
            A law has passed authorizing the re-payment of forfeited monies to purchasers of the public lands, as
                    well in case where the one twentieth part of the purchase money was deposited in advance, as in
                    cases of entire instalments. For this purpose certificates are to be issued by the Registers of the
                    Land Offices where the payments were made, in favour of those entitled to receive, and these
                    certificates are receivable as cash in all land payments.
            The future disposition of the public lands in the new states, is a subject of much embarrassment.
                    This question has in various forms occupied the time of the present session, without producing any
                    practical result whatever. The bill to graduate their price, and to cede the refuse to the several
                    states in which they lie, was finally negatived in the Senate, and the question is at rest for the
                    present session. The recent discussions however, of the various land propositions, will in all
                    probability put the whole subject fully before the 
                  
                     36 See Register of Debates, 20 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix ix (March 21, 1828) for the relief law here omitted. This statute extended the
                            relief laws of 1824 and 1826 to 1829. See footnote 14 above.
                  
                     37 This bill did not become law at this time.
               
                     people, and may be expected to excite for it an interest, which
                    will not permit it to sleep, but which will promise at a future day, some change beneficial to the
                    new states.
            The course I have taken on this subject, is probably known to all. It has long been my opinion, that
                    the public lands of right belong to the several states in which they lie, and that but for the
                    compacts entered into with the federal government, previous to their admission into the Union, they
                    might constitutionally have taken possession of them, in virtue of state sovereignty, and their
                    equality with the original states. In accordance with this opinion, I did at the present session, as
                    I had done at the last, propose a direct cession of these lands to the states in which they lie;
                    giving to the new states, unconditionally, all the public lands to which the
                    Indian title is extinguished, and that subject to the Indian title, on condition of extinguishing
                    that title at their own expense; an expense averaging heretofore from two to five cents per acre.
                    This proposition was on the table of the Senate the greater part of the last session, but no
                    opportunity was afforded for its discussion until the present session; and the bill to graduate the
                    price of the public lands to which it was offered as an amendment, although reported for five
                    successive years, never met the final consideration of the Senate, until a few weeks ago.
            The public lands, especially of every new state, are the primary interest of that state, and reason
                    as well as justice would surely say, that based as our institutions are, on the public will, that
                    public will should control that interest. The Legislatures of the new states are, in my opinion,
                    much better qualified to make proper disposition of the public lands, than is the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    . They are better acquainted with the condition of the people, their wants and their
                    wishes. The states would better know how to graduate, and when to give pre-emption rights and
                    donations to actual settlers. Under the auspices of the State Legislatures the lands of inferior
                    quality, would be given to actual settlers who might be unable to purchase, and prosperous and
                    compact settlements would be formed, in districts of country, which under the present system are
                    almost wholly neglected.
            The bill to graduate which had been long before the Senate, and had from various circumstances
                    excited a considerable interest in its favour, was all that had prospects of success at the present
                    session, and of course the proposition  above referred to, was
                    not pressed to a final decision; no vote was taken on it. The bill to graduate proposed to cede to
                    the states such lands as could neither be sold in a given time for twenty five cents per acre, nor
                    given away to [a]ctual settlers; but this section was stricken out, and the bill as amended and
                    finally voted upon, proposed a graduation of prices down to twenty five cents per acre, falling
                    every two years twenty-five cents; & selling at prices somewhat reduced, to actual settlers
                    one quarter section each. I voted for the bill and was anxious that it should pass, as the best that
                    could at the present be done, and as a step towards my own proposition, to which I have little doubt
                    the matter must ultimately come. The graduation bill was rejected by a vote of 21 to 25 in the
                    Senate. Two Senators were absent who would in all probability have increased the majority against
                    it.
            The condition of the public lands in the new states, is one which cannot last. Equality with the
                    original states, was guarantied to them on their admission into the Union, and their inequality is
                    too grossly manifest, to be unobserved by an intelligent people. It is not satisfactory to be told,
                    that many of the old states had no public lands at their disposal, those lands having passed from
                    the British crown to individuals before the revolution; for such states, though they may not have
                    had the primary disposal of the soil have always had the power over it in the form of taxation. The
                    sovereignty and Independence of a state, is indeed better consulted, by the soil being in the hands
                    of patriotic industrious citizens, than in the hands of its own Government; but the people are mere
                    tenants, whose soil is neither in their own hands, nor that of their Legislature; and the Government
                    is any thing else than independent, whose soil is owned by, subject to the jurisdiction and at the
                    disposal of any other Legislature than its own. A respectful and persevering assertion of our right
                    to the public soil, as incident to the sovereignty and equality of the states, is in my opinion, the
                    attitude the new states should assume on this subject. While divided among themselves they cannot
                    expect success. Any thing short of this attitude, acknowledges inferiority and independence
                    [dependence]. So doubtful at least is the argument of constitutional power in the federal
                    Government, to hold the lands within the limits of the states, that the compacts with the new
                    states, not to interfere with the primary disposal of the soil, and not  to tax the public lands, seem to be chiefly relied on; as if power
                    could be acquired by compact, which was not given by the constitution, and as if compacts made by
                    60,000 people before they were admitted into the Union, could equitably be binding in all future
                    time upon millions.
            The present condition of the public lands must forever keep the new states, not only dependent on the
                    federal Government; but absolutely poor. By the operation of the land offices, the country is
                    drained almost of its last dollar, and this must continue as long as the public lands belong to the
                    Union. It is a singular fact, that on the seaboard, in the commercial cities there has been for
                    years past, a redundancy of capital. It has been seeking investment, at four and a half and five per
                    cent, while in the North Western states there is scarcely any circulating medium at all.
            A appropriation of $500 for surveying the obstructions to the navigation of the
                        Wabash river, between its mouth and Eel river, has
                    passed. A bill for the continuation of the Cumberland road through the state of Indiana,
                    appropriating $50,000 to cut the timber off and dig down the banks, has also passed the
                    Senate, and should the time of the House permit, it will no doubt become a law.38 A further appropriation of $175 000 has been made, for the completion of that
                    road to 
                        Zanesville
                    , and to continue its location to the seat of Government of 
                        Missouri
                    ; also an appropriation of $30,000, for continuing the surveys under the act
                    of 1824.
            In addition to the appropriations already mentioned, that of $1,000,000 payable in five
                    years, to the stock of the Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     canal company has passed the House of Representatives.39 The work
                    to which this is a subscription, is one of the greatest importance to the Western country, and
                    especially to that portion of it bordering on the Ohio river. This canal will
                    terminate at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and unite the navigation of the 
                        Ohio
                    , with the tide waters of the Potomac at this City.
            The army of the 
                        United States
                     consists of 6,000. These are stationed at about forty posts, embracing an extensive
                    line of Western and North Western frontier. The preserva tion 
                  
                     38 This bill did not become law at this time."
                  
                     39 Congress authorized the purchase of 10,000 shares of stock in this
                            canal over a five year period. See Register of Debates, 20 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix xxvii (May 24, 1828).
               
                     of public property, and the occupancy of posts in the vicinity
                    of the various Indian tribes, necessarily distributes this force into small corps, requiring a
                    greater proportion of officers then would be necessary if embodied in the field. A less army than
                    that in actual service, would, in the opinion of many military men, be insufficient for the
                    necessary purposes of the Government even in time of peace. I voted however for the reduction of the
                    army in 1821, to its present establishment, and was then, as I still am of opinion, that it might
                    have been further reduced.
            The whole Naval force of the 
                        United States
                     authorized by law previous to the 3d of March, 1827, consisted of 12 ships of the line,
                    exclusive of 2 on Lake Ontario, 1 frigates of the first class, 3 of the second
                    class, 16 Sloops of War, 4 Schooners and three other vessels. Some of these are yet on the stocks,
                    but this whole force is in condition, to be put into active service in a short period of time,
                    should [t]he exigencies of the country so require. By act of the 3d of March, 1827, a further
                    appropriation of $500,000 per annum for six years for the gradual increase of the Navy
                    was made, and under this act, timber has been procured, for the construction of 5 ships of the line
                    five frigates and five Sloops of war.
            Of the vessels of the Navy there are now in commission, one ship of the line, 3 frigates of the first
                    class, 2 of the second class, 10 sloops of war and 4 schooners. These are stationed in squadrons in
                    the Mediterranean, the Brasils, the West Indies and the Pacific, for the protection of our commerce,
                    which the enterprize of our citizens has carried into every ocean and every sea.
            The war between Buenos Ayres and the Brasils, and the protracted contest between the Republics of the
                    South and Old 
                        Spain
                    , have been fruitful sources of piracies, and have largely contributed to the necessity
                    of our armaments on the coasts of South America and the West Indies, and the lawless and sanguinary
                    struggle between the Greeks and the Turks, has produced the like necessity, for an imposing squadron
                    in the Mediterranean, for the supression of piracy and the protection of our commerce there.
            The foreign relations of our country are as tranquil as at any period since the late war. Questions
                    how ever of some embarrassment exist, in relation to boundary, between the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain, on our North Eastern and  North
                    Western coasts. To attempt a history of these disputed points, would be too long for this letter.
                    Suffice it to say, that difficulties heretofore insurmountable have prevented the designation of our
                    North Eastern boundary between the 
                        United States
                     and the British provinces, and the progress of settlements on both sides, have led to
                    collisions of an unpleasant character[.] The State of 
                        Maine
                     has been considerably agitated, on account of the violation of her Territory and the
                    mal-treatment o[f] her citizens by British Subjects. The same difficulty of boundary ex[i]s[ts]
                    Westward of the Rocky Mountains[.] On this subject a temporary compromise was
                    effected by convention of 1818. Which expires by its own limitation in ten years from its date. By
                    this convention it was agreed that no exclusive jurisdiction should be exercised by either party;
                    but that the citiz[ens] of the 
                        United States
                    , and the subjec[ts] of Great Britain, should have equal rights on the disputed
                    Territory. The convention has been renewed for an indefinite period of time, which how ever may be
                    terminated, by either giving twelve months previous notice to the other party. This question of
                    boundary heretofore has been, as at present it is, the basis of unyielding objections on the part of
                    many members, to the proposed occupation of the mouth of the Columbia river, a
                    measure not likely to be adopted, until all questions of boundary in that quarter be settled. The
                    session will terminate on the 26th of the present month.
            With great respect,
            Your obedient Servant,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 20th Congress, 2nd Session (1828–1829)40
            
            
               
                  
                            Washington City
                        , March 6, 1829.
            Sir: At the close of another session of Congress, I again address you. A stormy and unprecedented
                    period has just passed by, upon the history of which it is not necessary to enter.—The
                    [presidential] contest is over, and the intelligence and patriotism of the people, have commanded a
                        
                  
                     40 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, April 2, 1829 (Archives Division, Indiana State Library). This
                            session of Congress convened December 1, 1828, and adjourned March 3, 1829.
               
                     promp[t] acquiescence in the declared public will. The session
                    has been one of more than ordinary good feeling, and apathy, rather than excitement, seems to have
                    seized the body politic. If the vessel of state shall be held in the same direction, her onward
                    voyage will be equally prosperous, and should the present administration pursue the policy of the
                    past, on the subject of internal improvement and the tariff, all who really went for measures, more
                    than for men, will rejoice in the prosperity of the country, no matter who administers its affairs.
            A law has passed appropriating $50,000 to the Cumberland road in Indiana.41 An appropriation too of $100,000 has been made for the progress of this road
                    westwardly of 
                        Zanesville
                    , in the state of 
                        Ohio
                    , and the work may be expected to be in progress, during the present year, on the
                    greater part of the whole line, from 
                        Zanesville
                    , to the eastern boundary of 
                        Illinois
                    . An appropriation of $100,000 has also been made for repairing this road
                    east of 
                        Wheeling
                    .
            The financial affairs of the nation, are at this time, as they have been for years past, in a most
                    prosperous condition. During the last four years, there has beon [sic] paid on
                    account of the national debt, $45,303,642 26, and should the same fiscal prosperity be
                    continued to us which has existed the last year, the debt will in effect, be entirely extinguished
                    in little more than four years. The whole remaining debt, exclusive of the Bank stock item of
                    $7,000,000, was, on the first of January last, $51,362,135 78, and of this the
                    13,000, 000 dollars of the old Revolutionary three per cents, will probably be redeemed much below
                    par; so that the actual debt now existing, is little more than the amount paid in the last four
                    years; and the best wish, the warmest friend of President Jackson can feel or utter, is, that his
                    administration may extinguish the debt, during the presidential term for which he is elected. This
                    would be a civic wreath, no less durable, than the laurels that already encircle his brow. Then will
                    the public lands in the new states be released from the heavy weight of the national debt, and their
                    pledge to that object, which has heretofore set like an incubus on the new states, will cease to
                    exist. Then it will be in the power of the General Government to diminish the public revenue from
                        
                  
                     41 This was the first appropriation for Cumberland Road construction
                            in Indiana.
               
                     25 to 10 or 12 millions, which will still be necessary for the
                    current expenditures including internal improvements, and this amount can be so imposed, as
                    sufficiently to protect the primary manufactures of the country. The high duties at present imposed
                    on articles not manufactured at home, may then be totally abolished. The burdens on the shipping and
                    the commerce of the northern states, and on the agriculture of the south, may then be lessened, if
                    not entirely removed; and then, nothing deserving the name of excuse, will remain, to justify
                    Congress, in refusing to acknowledge the sovereignty of the new states, in and over their
                    unappropriated lands.
            The subject of public lands is one of much embarrassment even at the present day: nor is that
                    embarrassment likely to be diminished; while the title and disposition of them, remains in the hands
                    of the Federal Government. A large portion of the time of Congress is already employed, in
                    legislating on this subject for the new states under the present system, and for many years past,
                    have the tables of both Houses, been burdened with propositions looking to a change of system. Among
                    these propositions, that of graduating the price according to the quality, has been presented to the
                    Senate for the last six years. The graduation bill has been frequently discussed in the Senate, and
                    was, at the previous session pressed to a decision of that body. The result was unfavorable. The
                    members from the new states seem less inclined than heretofore to press this bill, and more
                    inclined, to assert THE
                    RIGHTS
                    OF
                    THE
                    NEW
                    STATES, TO
                    THEIR
                    OWN
                    SOIL as incident to, and inseparably coenected [sic] with state
                    sovereignty.
            Resolutions asserting in the strongest terms, the rights of the new states to the unappropriated
                    lands within their limits, have, during the present session, been received from the legislatures of
                    several of those states. 
                        Louisiana
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Alabama
                    , have taken the same grounds; 
                        Illinois
                     has presented a memorial, the spirit of which is very much the same, and 
                        Tennessee
                    , for the last two sessions, has had a bill before the House of Representatives, for the
                    cession of her unappropriated lands to that state. 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     have as yet made no expression on the subject. The greater portion memorialized
                    Congress to pass the graduation bill. 
                        Ohio
                     has of the public lands which are of any value in that state have  passed into the hands of individuals, or are covered with military
                    districts, leaving her with little interest to contend for; so that it would not be surprising, if 
                        Ohio
                     should feel lukewarm, or go into the ranks of the old states on the subject.
            By a recent treaty with the Potawatamie Indians, held at the big St. Joiephs, in September last,
                    their title to a tract of country, of considerable extent in Indiana, was extinguished. It includes
                    the country watered by the Elk Heart and other tributaries of the St. Josephs, and is supposed to be
                    in extent about one million of acres. This treaty has been ratified. An appropriation for its survey
                    is made, and some of these lands will no doubt be brought into market the ensuing year. It is said
                    to be a delightful region of country and that the tide of emigration to it has already set in.
            A bill authorising the occupancy of the mouth of the Oregon or
                        Columbia river, gave rise to considerable debate in the House of
                    Representatives. It was supported as a measure necessary for the protection of the fur trade, for
                    the prevention of British encroachments south of the line, and as a measure necessary to ensure us a
                    fair participation in the commerce of the South Sea. It was resisted as a measure likely to produce
                    collisions with the British and Indians in that quarter; on account of the worthlessness of the
                    country, compared with the expenditure necessary for keeping up an establishment there, and on
                    account of the bad policy of settling a colony, or establishing a territory, requiring protection at
                    so great a distance; but above all, on account of the delicate nature of the unsettled question of
                    boundary westward of the Rocky mountains. It was negatived in the House of
                    Representatives where it originated. A bill for the establishment of a Territorial government west
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    , passed the House of Representatives, but was not finally acted on by the Senate.
            The foreign relations of the country are in a condition gratifying to the friends of peace. We have,
                    to be sure, pending negotiations, on questions of boundary and commerce with Great Britain, and of
                    spoliations with 
                        Denmark
                     and 
                        France
                    .42 But these threaten no inquietude to the country; and the wars of
                    Europe, between Russia and 
                        Turkey
                    , and between the latter power and the Greeks, have little or no 
                  
                     42 The spoliation claims were for damage done to American shipping
                            during the Napoleonic Wars.
               
                     effect on our commerce, remote as those theatres of war are
                    from the Atlantic ports of Europe. We have indeed been under the necessity for years past of keeping
                    a strong squadron in the Mediterranean, for the protection of our commerce, and the suppression of
                    piracy there; but this, [i]ndependent of the wars of the Grand Seignor, would in all probability
                    have been necessary, to protect our commerce against the pirates which continually infest those
                    seas.
            The war between the Turks and the Greeks, probably owing more to the destruction of the Turkish fleet
                    at Navarino, than to any other cause, has for some time past, been totally suspended.43 It has left 
                        Greece
                     in a wretched condition. Her cities pillaged burnt, and the country depopulated by
                    famine and the sword. Her commerce and marine swept from the Ocean.—Her agriculture
                    almost wholly destroyed, and the nation reduced to the extreme of human suffering and calamity.
            The war between Russia and 
                        Turkey
                     has been in existence during the greater portion of the last year; but, unlike the wars
                    of Napolean, those two powers have had half a million of men in the field without producing any
                    considerable advantage on either side. A few weeks or months at most was sufficient for Napoleon to
                    march his armies into any portion of Europe, whithersoever he inclined to go, and with him a single
                    battle would often terminate a compaign [sic] and fix the destinies of Kingdoms.
                    In the present war, there is little of the spirit, which triumphed at Marengo, at 
                        Austerlitz
                     and at 
                        Jena
                    ; which conducted the French Armies in 
                        Italy
                     and on the Rhine.
            The Legislative Session adjourned on the 3d of the present month; but the Senate have been detained
                    on account of the appointments necessary to organize the new administration. These are Mr. [Martin]
                    Van Buren, of 
                        New York
                    , Secretary of State, Mr. [Samuel D.] Ingham, of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Secretary of the Treasury, already appointed. It is understood that Mr. [John H.]
                    Eaton, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , and Mr. [John] Branch, of 
                        North Carolina
                    , are to be Secretaries of 
                  
                     43 In August, 1827, 
                        England,
                                    France
                     , and Russia had offered mediation to
                            the Greeks and Turks, but the Turks refused. In October, while the allied fleets were
                            intercepting supplies bound for the Turkish and Egyptian fleets at Navarino Bay in
                            southwestern 
                                Greece
                            , hostilities broke out, and the Turkish and Egyptian fleets were destroyed. See
                            L. S. Stavrianos, The Balkans since 1453 (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 289.
               
                     War and the Navy, and Mr. [John M.] Berrein, of 
                        Georgia
                    , Attorney General. Other executive business will probably be presented to detain the
                    Senate a few days.
            With much respect, your obedient servants
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 21st Congress, 1st Session (1829–1830)44
            
            WASHINGTON CITY, MAY 13, 1830.
            
               Dear Sir: Heretofore, it has been my practice, at the close of every session, to
                    address, a letter to the people of the State. This has been done, as on the present occasion, with
                    the view of communicating a short history of the most important business of the session. It is my
                    purpose to give this letter a general circulation, and I hope to succeed in sending it into every
                    settlement and neighborhood of the State, that every citizen who may think worth while, to hear or
                    examine its contents, may have an opportunity of so doing.
            It is often pleasant to take a retrospect of by-gone days, and in political affairs, as well as every
                    thing else, prosperity is well calculated to please. In no portion of our political history since
                    the close of the revolution, is this retrospect more agreeable, than in that which has transpired
                    since the close of the late war. During the whole period of that war; a war of brilliant
                    achievements on the land, the ocean and the lakes, Indiana, though not a borderer of the principal
                    enemy, was a frontier State, and suffered much from the hordes of savages on her northern frontier.
                    In many places the settlements had extended but a short distance from the Ohio
                    river; and pickets, block-houses, and forts, were to be seen, as the nucleus of every
                    neighborhood, from the Great Miami to the 
                        Wabash
                    . In 1810, the census of the Indiana Territory amounted to 25,000 souls. The
                    disturbances which led to the campaign on the 
                        Wabash
                    , had for some time been brooding, and a state of inquietude and alarm existed on the
                    frontier. In 1811, the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought, and a more bloody field was neither lost nor won during the war. Victory
                        
                  
                     44 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat and State Gazette, June 3, 1830 (Archives Division,
                            Indiana State Library). This session of Congress convened December 7, 1829, and adjourned
                            May 31, 1830.
               
                     was indeed achieved, and the enemy driven into the more remote
                    forest; yet panic and consternation prevaded [sic] the settlements. Many
                    settlements were entirely broken up, and the Territory, no doubt for some time after, diminished in
                    population. This state of things however, was not of long duration, for in 1815, a census was taken
                    with a view to a state government, and the population was found to be upwards of 60,900. In 1820, it
                    was upwards of 147,000, and in 1830, there is good reason to expect, it will approach 400,000.45
            
            In June, 1816, the convention met, and the Constitution was formed, and in the December following,
                    Indiana was admitted into the Union. Since that period, the Indian title has been extinguished to 7
                    millions of acres, much of which has been brought into market, and such has been our natural
                    advantages, the salubrity of our climate, the fertility of our soil, and the great value of our
                    navigable rivers, that a tide of emigration has rolled in upon us, probably unknown to any other
                    portion of the Union.
            Since that period too, some of the primary interests of the country have experienced much change. The
                    price of the public lands has been reduced, and a system of internal improvements created, of
                    incalculable advantage to the Union, and especially to the Western States. In 1820, the price was
                    reduced from two dollars per acre to one dollar and twenty five cents, and the credit
                    repealed.—Th[us the] relation of debtor and creditor bet [ween the] government and the
                    citizens, was prospectively done away[.] The debt had already swollen to more than
                    $22,000,000. It had become alarming; and in 1821, the relief system was adopted[.] Time
                    was given from two to eight years, according to the various classes, for the payment of this debt. A
                    deduction of 37$ per cent was allowed on cash payments, and a relinquishment of lands at
                    their original prices was also authorized. Various amendatory laws have since been enacted in
                    pursuance of this system, until the debt is chiefly extinguished. For the cases which yet remain,
                    another law has been enacted during the present 
                  
                     45 In 1815 the population of Indiana Territory was 63,897. See William
                            Hendricks to Jonathan Jennings, February 24, 1816, in Annals of Congress,
                            14 Cong., 1 Sess., 460–61 (January 5, 1816). The population of Indiana was
                            147,178 in 1820 and 343,031 in 1830. See U.S. Bureau of the Census, Historical
                                Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                , Colonial Times to 1957 (
                                Washington
                            , 1960), 13.
               
                     session; the first section of that law is the one which most
                    interests our country. It is as follows;—46
            
            A bill has passed the Senate reducing the price of lands which have been in market since the 30th day
                    of June, 1827, to one dollar per acre; and in favor of actual settlers, on one quarter of section
                    each, to seventy-five cents per acre. This, should it become a law, will give accellerated motion to
                    the settlement of the new States; will give great advantages, beyond what has ever been given before
                    to actual settlers, and will put the public lands more than heretofore, within the means and power
                    of the poor. Bills to vest in the State of Indiana certain lands whithin [sic] the
                    limits of the canal grant, and establish a land office in the 
                        St. Josephs
                     and 
                        Elk Hart county
                     including the North-western portion of the state, have also passed the senate.47
            
            A bill has passed the Senate granting townships of land, in aid of seminaries of learning, for
                    education of the deaf and dumb, to such States as have not heretofore received them.48 Those granted to the old States are to be selected in the territories: those to the new
                    States, within the new States. If, fortunately for our State, no such seminary shall be found
                    necessary, the assent of Congress will be readily obtained, for its application to other objects of
                    education[.] The township [f]or Indiana, and none other, will be selected in our state.
            On the subject of the public lands generally, my opinion is well known, and remains unchanged. I
                    believe that they constitutionally, and of right, belong to the several states in which they lie,
                    and that this disposition of them, is not only reasonable and just towards the new states, but
                    essentially necessary to the Union. They are a bone of contention in the councils of the nation. The
                    old states cling to them in the spirit of colonial monopoly a[n]d power, and the new states are
                    contending for them as a necessary appendage of their 
                  
                     46 See Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix xiii (March 31, 1830) for the relief law, section one of which was quoted by
                            Hendricks but is here omitted. The first section of this statute offered three alternatives
                            to purchasers who had accepted extended credit under earlier relief laws but whose lands had
                            later reverted to the government for nonpayment. Prior to January 1, 1831, they could draw
                            scrip, receivable for the purchase of certain other lands, in the amount actually paid for
                            the relinquished land. Until July 4, 1831, they could either retain the land under the right
                            of preemption by paying the current minimum price of $1.25 per acre or make the
                            remaining payments at the same rate.
                  
                     47 None of these bills became law at this time.
                  
                     48 This bill did not become law at this time.
               
                     sovereignty and independence. The peace and safety of the Union
                    require that they should not be held by the Federal Government; for in the hands of the Union, they
                    are the apple of discord among the states. The resolution of Mr. Foot, of which the public lands
                    happened to be the subject, and which has been the basis of a protracted discussion, is not to be
                        regretted.49 It has shewn, and will shew to the American people, more
                    clearly than any thing which has gone before it, the inexpediency af [sic] the
                    present coudition [sic] of the public lands. It shews how little the
                    representatives of the old states know about the new states, and how incompetent they are to manage
                    the public lands. That resolution indirectly assumes the ground, that the public surveys ought not
                    to be extended, till all the surveyed lands shall be sold. It will not be adopted. The discussion
                    which it has elicited, is fortunate for the new states. It will spread the question more broadly
                    before the people, and shew to Congress more and more the difficulty and impropriety of conti[n]uing
                    to legislate on the subject. Such too will be the fate in the House of Representatives, of the wild
                    scheme, of distributing their proceeds among the several states, according to the present
                    representation. This is very much like the proposition, strenuously advocated in Congress, some 8 or
                    10 years ago, of giving to the old states school lands, equivalent to that given to the new states.
            Since the year 1816, a system of internal improvements has been matured, beneficial to the Union, and
                    of which the State of Indiana, is reaping already, much advantage. The Cumberland road has been
                    completed to 
                        Wheeling
                    , and located west of the Ohio river, to the State of 
                        Missouri
                    . It is almost finished to 
                  Columbus,
                            Ohio
               . An appropriation of
                    $50,000 was made at the last session, to commence its construction in Indiana, of this
                    sum, $36,000 was expended during the last year. At the present session, a lurther [sic] appropriation for this road has already passed the Senate. It proposes
                    $100,000 to be expended in State of 
                        Ohio
                    , $60,000 to be expended in Indiana, $40,000 in 
                        Illinois
                    , and $32,000 for that 
                  
                     49 In December, 1829, Senator Samuel A. Foote from 
                                Connecticut
                             introduced a resolution instructing the Committee on Public Lands to consider
                            limiting the sale of public land to tracts already on the market and abolishing the office
                            of surveyor general. Except for a few brief interludes, devoted to urgent matters, debate on
                            Foote's resolution occupied the Senate's time for two and a half months.
                            See Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 3–7,
                            22–302 (December 30, 1829, January 18-April 2, 1830).
               
                     portion of it, which lies between 
                        St. Louis
                    , and the city of Jefferson, in the State of 
                        Missouri
                    . These appropriations judiciously ezpended [sic], will ensure the
                    establishment of mail stages upon the whole line, from this city to 
                        St. Louis
                     during the ensuing year.50 An appropriation of $36,000,
                    for the mail road between 
                        Louisville
                    , and 
                        St. Louis
                    , has also passed the Senate.51 The one half of this sum is to be
                    expended east of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the other west of that place; so that should these appropriations pass the house,
                    upwards of $90,000, including the unexpended balance of last year, will be expended
                    during the present year, on roads within the State of Indiana. This will give life and activity to
                    intern[a]l improvements in our State, and must also have some considerable influence on the
                    circulating medium. In addition to this, there is of the 3 per cent fund, [f]or disbursment the
                    present year, $14,226 83.
            A survey of the White rivers by a skilful Engineer of the 
                        United States
                    , is also authorized, and the sum of $500 appropriated for that object[.]
                    This is done as in the case of a similar reconnoisance of the 
                        Wabash
                     last year, with a view of other appropriations for the improvement of the navigation of
                    those rivers. The report of the survey of the 
                        Wabash
                    , was not made in time, to procure at the present session, any appropriation for
                    removing the obstructions to the navigation of that river. A further appropriation of
                    $100,000 has passed the Senate, to complete the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal, and little doubt can be entertained of the entire completion of that work the
                    present year.52 An appropriation has also been made for a survey of the
                    northwestern passage of the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , with a view of improving the navigation on our side of the river, so as to admit of
                    the passage of boats in the low water channel, at lower stages of water, than that at which they now
                    pass. $50,000 have been appropriated for the improvement of the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi rivers.
            In 1824, an appropriation of $30,000 was made, and placed under the direction of the
                    Secretary of War, for the purpose of making examinations and surveys for Roads and 
                  
                     50 These were appropriated by Congress, but Hendricks'
                            optimism regarding the completion date was unwarranted. The road did not reach Vandalia, 
                                Illinois
                            , until 1852. See Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix xxxii (May 31, 1830); Buley, The Old Northwest, I, 449.
                  
                     51 This bill did not become law at this time.
                  
                     52 This appropriation did not become law at this time, but the canal
                            was opened at the end of the year.
               
                     Canals. These appropriations have been continued from year to
                    year ever since, and a valuable mass of topographical information, is collecting in the Engineer
                    Department, developing the natural advantages of the country, and designating national works of
                    internal improvement. Under these appropriations, the route of the 
                        Wabash
                     canal has already been designated, and other surveys made; one to test the
                    practicability of uniting by canal navigation, the waters of Lake Michigan with
                    those of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and a survey is contemplated, the present year, to test the practicability, of uniting
                    by canal, the 
                        Wabash
                     with the western branch of White river.
            The value of internal improvements, to a country like ours, so large in geographical extent, cannot
                    at once be calculated or seen. Good roads and canals, uniting by cheap and speedy communications,
                    distant points of the union, are more valuable to its permanency, than all the fortifications which
                    can be placed on the seaboard or inland frontier. Such too, is the position of Indiana in the Union,
                    that she must necessarily be as much advantaged by works of this description, as any other State. We
                    have the Ohio river forming the southern boundary [o]f the State, the
                    navigation of which, has of late, been greatly improved. The Cumberland road is already located
                    through the centre of the State. A road from the Atlantic seaboard to the upper Mississ[i]ppi, which
                    will at no distant day be one of great importance must necessarily pass through the northern portion
                    of our Stateline of water communication, the two greatest cities of the union, 
                        New York
                        New Orleans
                    , and two of the largest rivers on the contiment [sic], and of the
                    world, the Mississ[i]ppi and the St. Lawrence. This is a work pre-eminently national in its
                    character, and one which the Federal Government ought to accomplish itself. This however can better
                    be done by the States, through the aid of the General Government, and that aid has already been
                    liberally given to the State of Indiana, in the grant of lands for that purpose, authorised by the
                    act of March, 1827. This grant judiciously managed, will no doubt go far towards completing the
                    work; but if it should fail to a greater extent than the State of Indiand [sic]
                    shall be able to sup[p]ly, it cannot be, that the government of the Union will hesitate in making
                    further appropriations for the completion of this great national work. To this the Federal
                    Government may be considered as pledged, as early as the year 1787, by the "articles of
                    compact, between the  original States, and the people and
                    States," of the Territory northwest of the river 
                        Ohio
                    . In that ordinance it is stipulated the "navigable waters leading into the 
                        Mississippi
                     and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same shall be common high-ways,
                    and forever free."
            A bill has been reported, but will not probably become a law during the present session, giving to
                    the State a grant of lands, to aid in the construction of a road, from Lawrence-burgh, by the way of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the southern bend of the St. Josephs of Lake Michigan, to the
                    State line in the direction of 
                        Chicago
                    .53 A great portion of this road must necessarily be located through
                    the public lands, and it proposes to give one section for every mile. This will enhance the value of
                    the public lands beyond the value of the donation and open one of the most important roads in the
                    northwestern portion of the Union. That portion of it west of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , will be on the line of the nearest possible route, from the eastern ci[t]ies to the
                    mineral regions of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , a route which must be travelled in the winter seasons, in preference of the northern
                    rivers and lakes. This route has already attracted the attention of some portions of the Atlantic
                    seaboard, and its importance must become more and more apparent. Its advantages over any other
                    route, in point of distance, from any given point east of our State, is great and obvious. Take 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , for example. From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     by the way of 
                  Columbus, Fort Wayne
               , the Sout[h]ern Bend of the St. Josephs and 
                        Chicago
                    , to the nearest mines on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the distance is 610 miles. From the same place by water, through the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi rivers, the distance is 1860 miles, and from the
                    same point, by way of the Lakes, and the Fox and Wisconsin rivers, it is 1110
                    miles. Time cannot be long, till this will be one of the most important roads in the Northwest. With
                    it too the 
                        Michigan
                     road will be intersected at the southern Bend of the St. Josephs, and the western
                    portion of our own State, will no doubt soon be connected with it, by a road from the 
                        Vermillion county
                    , in the direction of 
                        Chicago
                    .
            An appropriation for the further extinguishment of Indian title in Indiana, has passed the Senate,
                    and a treaty will in all probability, be held with the Miamies and Pottawattamies the present
                        year.54 This is a subject of great importance 
                  
                     53 Hendricks was right; this bill did not pass.
                  
                     54 This bill did not become law at this time.
               
                     to us, but one which has excited no solicitude in the public
                    mind. Not so with the Indian question in the south. On this subject, much of the benevolence of the
                    country is excited, in a misapprehension of the policy of the Government towards the Indians. But
                    nothing coercive on the subject of their removal, has, on the part of the Government, ever been
                    proposed; and the proposition now before Congress, is an exchange of the country where they now
                    live, for another country, west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The bill now pending secures to them, the country so given in exchange, and if they so
                    desire, a patent to issue for it. It further authorizes payment for their improvements where they
                    now are, gives them aid and assistance in removing west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and support and subsistence for the first year after their removal. It also guarantees
                    to them protection in their new residence against the hostilities of other tribes.55 All this is submitted to their free acc[e]ptance or refusal. It is believed that they
                    cannot long remain where they are. They are surrounded by the settlements of 
                  Georgia, Alabama
               ,
                    and 
                        Mississippi
                    , and these States have extended over them their laws. Already collisions &
                    bloodshed have taken place between them and the whites. They cannot for many generations to come, be
                    amalgamated with the whites. They have not adopted, to any considerable degree, the employments of
                    agriculture; their game is destroyed, and they cannot live by the chase. Humanity requires that
                    their condition should be changed, and it is believed that this is the opinion of many of
                    themselves. Already have a large number of the Cherokees removed to the west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The policy now pursued, is that which was adopted by President Monroe, and which has
                    been undeviatingly followed ever since. It is the policy of settling them west of the organized
                    States and Territories; assigning to each tribe a separate district of country, giving them a
                    permanent title to it, and protecting them against wars among themselves, as well as encroachments
                    of the whites.
            The fifth census of the 
                        United States
                     will be taken the ensuing summer and fall. A bill too has been reported to fix the
                    ratio of representation for the ensuing ten years.56 The present ration [sic] is 40,000 to each member of the House of Representatives, and the House now
                    consists of 213 members. 
                  
                     55 The Indian Removal Bill became law. See Register of
                                Debates, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix xxxii-xxxiii (May 28, 1830).
                  
                     56 This bill did not become law at this time.
               
                     That number will not, in all probability, be increased, and the
                    ratio will be fixed with the view of keeping it at least where it is. This may raise the ratio to
                    50,000. The old States will be much reduced of their present representation, while the new States
                    will be greatly advanced, and perhaps none more so than Indiana.
            A bill for the organization of the Territory of Huron, has, for several sessions past, been reported
                    to the House of Representatives. At the last session [it] passed that body, but was sent too late to
                    the Senate. It is again before the House, but there is little probability of its becoming a law
                    during the present session.57 It is intended to include all our territory west
                    of Lake Michigan; a country fast rising into notice; in which the Indian title
                    to large quantities of lands has lately been extinguished; a region abounding, as is believed, not
                    only with lead but with copper and iron ores. The value of the mineral regions of the 
                        Mississippi
                     is from year to year more rapidly developing. The lead made at the 
                        United States
                     mines in the vicinity of Fever river, and in 
                        Missouri
                    , amounted on the 30th September last, to 36,840,310 pounds: more than 26,000,000 of
                    which have been made within the last two years. This bill, should it not pass at the present
                    session, will have a prominent place on the orders of the day for next session, and at an early
                    period become a law. Such is the enterprise of our citizens, that this country is settling with
                    great rapidity, and has probably at the present moment, a greater population than Indiana had when
                    her territorial government was formed.
            No territorial government or military post will at present be organized or established on the
                        Columbia river, though great solicitude on that subject is found to exist.
                    A large company is formed in the eastern States, chiefly in 
                        Boston
                    , for the purpose of emigrating there. They propose to take a colony of 3,000 men, most
                    of whom have families, to go chiefly by water, landing in the bay of Campeachy in the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                    , passing over the isthmus of Darien, to a point on the Pacific, where transports will
                    meet them, and take them to the place of their destination. They pray for a small naval outfit to
                    aid them in going, and the military arm of the Government to protect their first settlements on the
                    coast of the Pacific, or in the valley of the 
                        Oregon
                    .
            
               
                  57 This bill did not become law at this time.
            
            
            The army of the 
                        United States
                     consisted in November last of 6,169 men, stationed at various military posts on the
                    seaboard and on the inland frontier. A small detachment however, has, during the past year been more
                    actively employed, in protection of the Santa Fee trade, and escorting the caravans engaged in that
                    trade to the Mexican line. The same service is authorized for the present year.
            The number of pensioners on the rolls of the different agencies of the 
                        United States
                    , was, at the last returns, 15,995, and the number of deaths within the last year, 442.
            As evidence of our national prosperity, it is sufficient to state, that the national debt, which on
                    the 30th September, 1815, was estimated at $158,000,000, was on the 1st of January last,
                    reduced to $48,565,406 50; and that within the last few years, six new States have been
                    added to the Union. These are Indiana, 
                  Mississippi, Illinois, Alabama, Maine
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    . Territory too, much greater in geographical extent, than that included within the
                    limits of the States organized, has recently been acquired. The entire coasts of the Atlantic and
                    the Gulph of 
                        Mexico
                    , from the Bay of Fundy to the mouth of the Sabine, belongs to the 
                        United States
                    . The 
                        Florida
                    's have been added to our jurisdiction and sovereignty, and our boundary beyond
                    the Rocky mountains, comprehend the whole valley of the 
                        Oregon
                     and its tributary streams, with a large seaboard on the Pacific
                    Ocean [.]58 No portion of our history is so well calculated to cheer
                    and animate the patriot, or promises so much for the success of liberal principles throughout the
                    world. The polictical[sic] condition of South America and 
                        Mexico
                    , has not equalled the expectations of the friends of Republican Governments. They have
                    been torn and distracted by civil commotions. Revolutions have frequently taken place, and these
                    always produced by the power of the sword [.] The turbulence of passion, has not yet learned the
                    lesson of submission to the public will; the duty of the minority to submit to the majority. Hence,
                    military despotisms, instead of the calmness and tranquility of good order and law.
            The Russian and Turkish war having terminated, Europe reposes in the arms of peace. Since the stormy
                    period of the French revolution, the pacification of Europe has not been 
                  
                     58 By the Adams-Onis Treaty of 1819, 
                                Spain
                             had relinquished her claims above 42$ north latitude. In 1818 the 
                                United States
                             and Great Britain had agreed to joint occupation of the 
                                Oregon
                             country; in 1827 that arrangement had been extended indefinitely.
               
                     more general than at the present time. We see indeed at a
                    distance, the faint glim[m]erings of war; but these are the fragments of broken legions, retiring
                    from bloody fields; the Russian passing the Balkan, the Danube, and the Pruth, to re-enter, and
                    re-occupy his frozen regions, and the Turk retiring, to occupy once more in peace, the desolations
                    of a humbled and dismembered empire. The power of the Sultan has been greatly diminished in the
                    north, and in Asia east of the Black sea; and 
                        Greece
                    , though not restored to liberty, is rescued from the tyranny and oppression of 
                        Turkey
                    . 
                        France
                    , Russia and 
                        England
                    , have long since determined the political condition of 
                        Greece
                    . She is to be independent though not free. By the treaty of 
                        London
                    , the government of that illfated country, is to be monarchical and hereditary. Her
                    boundaries are fixed, and she is to receive a monarch of their choice.59 No hero
                    of former times; no Leonidas or Alexander, has responded to the wrongs and oppressions of his
                    country, and re-established the liberties and glories of ancient 
                        Greece
                    . She has however, gained much, as well, as suffered much. She will be left in the
                    enjoyment of her alters and firesides, and be emancipated from the power and despotism of the Grand
                    Seignior; and the cause of civil and religious liberty, will be much advanced, in Europe, and
                    throughout the world, by the humbled and subdued condition of the power of Asiatic 
                        Turkey
                    .
            The Session will close in the 31st inst. With great respect, your obedient servant,
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            Circular Relating to the 21st Congress, 2nd Session (1830–1831)60
            
            WASHINGTON
                    CITY, March 2, 1831.
            SIR—The ordinary business of the Session has been greatly interrupted
                    by the impeachment of Judge Peck.61 This was 
                  
                     59 In 1832 the Greek crown was accepted by Prince Otto of Bavaria.
                  
                     60 This circular is reprinted from the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, March 31, 1831 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library). This session of Congress convened December 6, 1830, and adjourned March 3, 1831.
                  
                     61 The House of Representatives impeached Judge James H. Peck of the 
                                United States
                             District Court of 
                                Missouri
                            . An anonymous letter, criticizing the judge for errors of fact and doctrine in
                            a recent decision, had been published in a local newspaper. Peck identified the writer, had
                            him brought to trial, sentenced him to twenty-four hours in prison, and suspended him from
                            practicing law in the District Court of 
                                Missouri
                             for eighteen months. See Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 1
                            Sess., 411–13 (May 4, 1830).
               
                     a case of much interest, owing to the novelty of its
                    occurrence; the magnitude of the personal interest and the legal principles involved, as well as the
                    array of talent employed in the prosecution and defence.—These were well calculated to
                    attract public attention to it throughout the union. Other considerations too, came in aid of its
                    own importance, to give it, magnitude before the American People.
            The feelings of some portions of the south in reference to the judicial power of [t]he 
                        United States
                    , and the movement in the house of representatives, having for its object the repeal of
                    the 25th section of the judiciary act of 178962 conspired to give every thing on
                    this subject an air of importance, both here and els[e] where, which in other times would not have
                    been seen or felt. This impeachment, terminated, as is generally known, in the acquittal of the
                    Judge, and the proposition to repeal was promptly met in the house of representatives, and the bill
                    rejected on the second reading by a vote of nearly three to one.
            The financial affairs of the federal government are, as they have been for many years past, in a
                    flourishing condition. The whole public debt of the 
                        United States
                    , amounted, on the first of January last, to $39,123,191 68, and the
                    operation of the sinking fund is rapidly diminishing it. Payments amounting from ten to twelve
                    millions are annually made on the principal and interest of the debt, and it requires no financier
                    to determine that in a very few years, the revenue remaining as it is, it must totally disappear.
                    But the anti-tariff spirit which is always in motion, would constantly be employed in modifying, if
                    it would not entirely destroy this ample source of revenue. To show every one its importance, it
                    will be sufficient to state, that the receipts from all sources into the treasury during the year
                    1829 amounted to $24,827,627 38, and of this sum, the customs, or in other words, the
                    Tariff upon imported goods, produced $22,681,965 81; the sales of the public lands, in
                    all the new states and territories, about a million and a half; the State of Indiana paying nearly
                    one third of that amount.
            From this view of the case it is obvious, that when the debt shall be paid, we shall have a large
                    surplus, and it is 
                  
                     62 Section 25 permitted appeals from the highest state courts to the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court following adverse decisions regarding the supremacy of the
                            federal Constitution, treaties, or statutes. See Annals of Congress. 1
                            Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2182–97 (September 24, 1789).
               
                     proposed to substitute the present plan of Internal
                    Improvement, for a distribution of these surplus revenues among the states. This plan, viewed at a
                    distance, is quite plausible. Its inducements may be many, but its difficulties will be great, and
                    it will at all events be better to adhere to the old system, from which much good has been realized
                    till we get another ready for adoption. The new system has been broached in the hope, that it will
                    do away much of the constitutional objection to roads and canals, against which the present mode of
                    appropriation has been struggling for years. But if the distribution scheme be liable to the same
                    objection and will require an amendment to the constitution before it can be adopted, we may bid
                    farewell to all hopes resting on that basis. That it will require such amendment of the
                    constitution, is the opinion very generally of those who oppose the present mode on constitutional
                    grounds. A small sum, compared with the ample means of the Union, would lay the foundation of a
                    system which would keep itself in activity, and progress with works of incalculable benefit to the
                    country. Let, for instance, $10,000,000 be embarked, and judiciously expended, in aid of
                    companies formed in the states, in works of primary importance; works which will, with all
                    reasonable certainty, in a short time after their completion, place their stock at and above its par
                    value; and when this shall take place, sell out the government shares, or make new investments in
                    other similar works. This is the view of the subject which I have had for years past. The U. States
                    have stock in the 
                        Delaware
                     and Chesepeak canal; this canal has already realized beyond the most sanguine
                    expectations of its friends, large dividends to the stockholders; its stock is now but little below
                    par, and is fast on the rise. When it shall get to par, sell it and make another judicious
                    investment of the capital. So with the 
                        United States
                     stock, in the 
                        Louisville
                     & 
                        Portland
                     canal; when it rises to par sell it and invest it elsewher[e], so in the 
                        Wabash
                     canal. It is easy to see that the still and silent operation of a capital which might
                    gradually be invested, withot[sic] being felt by the Treasury, would have a magic power in the
                    improvement of the country.
            An objection to the distribution scheme is that on the basis of representation the new States which
                    will need most will get least. But the greatest danger of all is, that the revenues of the country
                    will be so modified that there will be nothing to distribute. 
                    An appropriation for the Cumberland road in the state of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , have passed both houses.
            These are $100,000 for 
                        Ohio
                    , $75,000 for Indiana, and $66,000 for 
                        Illinois
                    . It is proposed to go on with the grading and bridging in indiana with a view of
                    putting the whole road as soon as possible in a condition to be useful. Other road bills are on the
                    files of the senate, but so little of the time of the senate has been employed the present session
                    in legislative business, that it is not probable they will be reached.
            A bill making an appropriation for improving the mail road from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                     by way of 
                        Vincennes
                     it will be recollected, passed the senate last session long before its termination, but
                    was not considered in the House. It would require little time in the Senate could it be reached on
                    the orders and should it pass the House it might, having heretofore been acted on by the senate,
                    become a law.63
            
            The great Indian question of the South may be considered at rest. The ratification of the Choctaw
                    treaty leaves little with which to keep up public excitement. The tribes of the South, strange as
                    the statement may appear, have for years been transferring themselves of their own accord, West of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and the tribe just named, has since the formation of the treaty last summer been
                    removing in great numbers. It is believed that of the Choctaws, say 17,000 about 5,000 have already
                    gone, and a large portion of the residue have since been making preparations to go. The treaty with
                    them is very liberal, and in other times would no doubt have been objected to, on account of its
                    weight upon the treasury. Individual reservations are guarantied to those who choose to stay, and
                    ample provision is made for those who wish to go. A treaty with the Chickasaws has also been entered
                    into, but has not yet been submitted to the senate. It is based on the condition, that exploring
                    parties of that tribe delegated to examine the country proposed to be given in exchange, shall
                    favorably report[.] These two tribes will soon settle themselves west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . A part of the Creeks has already gone, in virtue of treaties made with them several
                    years back, and the Cherokees, the only remaining tribe in the southern states, have also been going
                    westwardly for some time past.
            
               
                  63 This bill did not become law at this time.
            
            
            Those of the Cherokees already settled west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , are said to be in a flourishing condition. They inhabit a delightful country, abundant
                    in all the necessaries of life, and near the fare-famed salt region of the west. The Cherokees are
                    supposed to be in number about 15,000 [15,600?], and the general condition of those west, is said to
                    be greatly superior to those east of the river.
            The law of last session for the removal of the Indians, when they should be willing to go, has been
                    liberally censured, as well as those who sustained it. And altho' it only appropriated half
                    a million, it has been so often associated with wild calculations, that thousands have no doubt
                    received the impression, that it contained the appalling sum of more than twenty millions. Our own
                    legislature had frequently approved the policy of the government, in the Indian removal question,
                    but this was either denied, or admitted to refer to their removal, on principles totally different
                    from those of the act spoken of.
            In the memorial of the [Indiana] general assembly of February, 1830, just one year ago, there is the
                    following language.
            "To endeavor to avert from the Potawatomies and Miamies, the fate which has attended many of
                    their kindred tribes, is a duty sanctioned by a regard for the national reputation, and by every
                    humane and philynthropic consideration.
            "As the best means of accomplishing so desirable a result and securing the happiness of the
                    aboriginal race, your memorialists respectfully and earnestly urge the adoption of measures to
                    induce the Indians within this state to abandon from choice those narrow forests where they now
                    acquire but a precarious and scanty subsistance, and to emigrate to the country West of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , which is much better adapted to their wants and to their habits.
            "The benevolent and patriotic views and recommendations of the President of the 
                        United States
                     on this subject, of which they tender their cordial approbation, render it unnecessary
                    for your memorialists to offer arguments in detail."
            It has been a fit subject for political excitement in which politicians led the van, while an array
                    of the best men and the best feeling followed in the rear. That excitement is indeed dying away, but
                    so great is it still, that our tables have  been loaded with
                    petitions and remonstrances, protesting against the law, and requesting its repeal, denouncing the
                    treaty and petitioning the senate that it might not be ratified; when if this law had been repealed
                    and the treaty rejected, starvation inevitably awaited the Indians. So general has been the wish,
                    and so loudly expressed on the part of this tribe, that the treaty should be ratified, that party
                    feeling in a great measure gave away, and the journals of the senate, shew but twelve votes in the
                    negative. Humanity demanded the ratification and will rejoice at the result, if the laws of 
                        Georgia
                     and some of the other states are cruel towards the Indians, then surely any legislative
                    provision which enables them to get away from those laws, and which make their condition better than
                    ever it was before, must meet the approbation of all.
            The law of last Session has been censured, as having for its object a total change of our policy
                    towards the Indians; as authorizing individual contracts with them instead of treaties, through
                    their authorized chiefs; contracts which were not to be submitted to the senate for ratification,
                    and to any amount, however enormous, beyond the appropriation. Those who voted for the law have been
                    arrainged [sic] before the American people for these unheard of exertions of
                    legislative power, and of cruelties towards the Indians. They could only say that nothing of the
                    kind was intended or authorized, and that nothing of the kind would be done. The occasion has passed
                    by. The Cherokees have refused to treat and the law is to them a dead letter. The Choctaws have
                    treated and the treaty has been submitted to the senate, for the sanction of that body. Instead of
                    an expenditure of 24,000,000, the appropriation of half a million is only in part expended.
            These things being so, the conclusion is not to be resisted, that false alarms have been sounded, and
                    that the people have been directed. I have charged [changed] no opinion for the last ten years on
                    the Indiana [sic] question [.] I voted for the law of last session, and every
                    subsequent reflection justifies the deed. I do not approve of the legislation of the southern states
                    on this subject; but a difficulty now exists, and it seems better to settle the difficulty, by the
                    removal of the Indians, with their consent, than by arraying the power of the federal government
                    against that of the states.—It is said that the president has power to protect the  Indians in the rights secured to them by treaties. Grant this:
                    but whenever the laws of the 
                        United States
                     have to be enforced, at the same time, in several of the states by the military arm of
                    the government, then farewell to the Union. This is a crisis which has never arisen in the
                    government. When it shall come, it may emphatically be said that the days of the republic are
                    numbered.
            On land subjects, very little will have been done the present session. The bill to reduce the price
                    of the public lands and grant a preference to actual settlers which passed the senate last year, has
                    not yet been finally acted on by the house and again is before the senate. Another relief law has
                    passed both houses and is as follows:64
            
            A bill author [iz] ing a subdivision of 80 acre lots at private sale; a supplement to the pre-emption
                    law of the last session, a bill putting the saline lands fully into the power of the legislature of
                    the state, and a bill sanctioning the selections heretofore made of the 
                        Michigan
                     road lands, and authorising the selection on the part of the state of other land in
                    lieu of those sold, have passed the senate.65
            
            The question of re-chartering the bank of the 
                        United States
                     has already been agitated in the Senate, and leave was refused to introduce a joint
                    resolution declaring that the bank ought not to be re-chartered. The present charter does not expire
                    for some years to come, and the agitation of the question at this time, was considered premature and
                        improper.66 Of course nothing of favor, or the want of it, towards the bank,
                    can be fairly inferred from the result of the opposition.
            Our foreign relations remain as in years past, undisturbed. Peace with all, and an enlarged sphere of
                    commercial 
                  
                     64 See Register of Debater, 21 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            Appendix 17 (February 25, 1831) for the relief law here omitted. Under this law purchasers
                            who had bought land on credit for less than fourteen dollars per acre, had received extended
                            credit under earlier relief laws, and yet had lost that land qualified for a clear title if
                            the previous payments amounted to $1.25 per acre; if the payments did not amount
                            to $1.25 per acre, purchasers had the right of preemption until July 4, 1831, by
                            paying the difference. Occupants of relinquished land as described above were given until
                            July 4, 1831, the right of preemption for up to two quarter sections in contiguous tracts.
                            This statute also permitted the original buyer of town property to complete his purchase by
                            paying one-half of the original price by July 4, 1832.
                  
                     65 Only the bill dealing with 
                                Michigan
                             Road lands became law. See Register of Debates, 21 Cong., 2
                            Sess., Appendix 47 (March 2, 1831).
                  
                     66 The Second Bank of the 
                                United States
                             was operating under a twenty year charter that would expire in 1836.
               
                     intercourse with some, at the present exists. Many of the
                    nations however of the old world, as well as the new, with whom we have treaties of amity and
                    commerce, are greatly distracted at home, and embroiled with each other. A revolution has taken
                    place in 
                        France
                     by which the reigning monarch has been put down, and another of the Bourbon's
                    raised to the throne.67 Great inquietudes have recently prevailed in 
                        Paris
                    , and the French throne does not appear to rest on a stable foundation. An extension of
                    the elective franchise, is impatiently demanded by the people, and public order, and public law is
                    enforced by the national guards, the military power of the nation. A revolution has taken place in 
                        Belgium
                    . The reigning monarch is dethroned, but the question of succession is not yet
                        settled.68 A revolution has also taken place in 
                        Poland
                    , and the Grand duke Constantine, has retreated from his capital, and placed himself
                    under the protection of his brother Nicholas, the emperor of Russia. Since the dismemberment of that
                    kingdom, the Poles have of themselves, assumed an attitude so warlike, they are preparing for a
                    vigorous defence against their oppressors, and the armies of Russia are rapidly concentrating on
                    their frontiers.69
            
            With great respect, your obedient servant.
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
            
               
                  67 The Bourbon King Charles X was deposed and replaced by King Louis
                        Philippe, Duke of Orleans and a cousin of the Bourbons.
               
                  68
                        
                            Belgium
                         separated itself from Holland with which it had been united in the Kingdom of the
                        Netherlands by the Congress of 
                            Vienna
                         following the Napoleonic Wars. Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha became king of 
                            Belgium
                         in 1831.
               
                  69 In a series of three partitions by Russia, Prussia, and 
                            Austria
                         between 1772 and 1795, the Polish nation had been destroyed. The diminished 
                            Poland
                        , created after the Napoleonic Wars, was a Russian puppet state.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Department of English at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1868–1970. [Edited by Donald J. Gray.] ([
                        Bloomington
                    : Department of English, Indiana University, 1973.] Pp. 267. Notes, tables,
                    illustrations. Paperbound, free.)
            This meaty volume is comprised of seventeen essays written by professors of English, some of whose
                    memories extended far back into the period covered. This material first appeared in the English Department News Letter at the time William Riley Parker was chairman. Parker
                    revealed both a streak of sentimentality, and an even stronger sense of the importance of a history
                    as a practical departmental tool. He felt that these essays would also fulfill the Department of
                    English's obligations to Indiana University in celebrating its sesquicentennial. Arranged
                    principally in chronological order, the chapters, though prepared by different individuals, give a
                    rather good continuity to the story. In case of the briefer essays there is a chronological
                    overlapping.
            The much beloved and highly respected teacher Frank Davidson wrote of those somewhat vague years when
                    English and literature were pulling away from the historic "stump" of rhetoric and
                    the classics at Indiana, and when the university was taking a highly formative step. As in all
                    American universities, 1868–1900, this separation was not without its traumatic moments
                    or bleeding wounds. Under the stirring 
                        Jordan
                     regime with its broadening of the university curriculum, introduction of electives, and
                    a higher degree of departmentilization, Indiana University developed an unusually good Department of
                    English. Orrin Benner Clark, George W. Saunderson, Charles H. Gilbert, George Washington Hoss, and
                    others were worthy pioneers. They were able to add many cubits to the teaching of the English
                    language and the literature it had produced. Beyond this some of these men played active roles in
                    liberalizing the entire university curriculum.
            In his essay covering the decades 1893–1920 Professor Donald J. Gray deals with a
                    strategic era of expansion in both the Department of English and the university. In these years both
                    struggled to reform themselves into much more significant institutions. Between the departure of
                    David Starr Jordan and the emergence of William Lowe Bryan as a dominant force in the university,
                    the departments undertook  to establish themselves as forces in
                    the general educational process. To this end Martin Wright Sampson, as department head, was able to
                    collect around him a promising young staff. The list of faculty members for these three decades
                    contains the names of many men of bright quality. Among them, Will David Howe, chairman,
                    1906–1919, Frank Aydelotte, Lewis Nathaniel Chase, Ralph Leslie Rusk, Henry Thew
                    Stephenson, and Frank Davidson, were indeed intellectual adornments.
            In a second essay Gray traces the history of the English Department down to 1945 and that great
                    dividing line in American academic history, the end of World War II. Henry Holland Carter was
                    chairman, 1923–1941, and Russell Noyes, 1941–1951. Like their distinguished
                    predecessor, Will D. Howe, both men had an important personal impact on the teaching of English and
                    literature. These were the years when Stith Thompson, Samuel Yellen, Donald Smalley, Chauncey
                    Sanders, Ralph Collins, Will T. Hale, Arthur Lieble, Mary Elizabeth Campbell, Lee Norvelle, and
                    Josephine Piercy joined the staff. These were productive scholars who glorified the name of the
                    university. An important development of these years was the presentation of a sparkling list of
                    literary lecturers to both general and departmental audiences. These also were years of genuine
                    realization of high departmental purposes.
            A series of five brief essays by Stith Thompson, John Robert Moore, Laurens J. Mills, Josephine
                    Piercy, Mary Elizabeth Campbell, and Samuel Yellen give intimate personal accounts of service in the
                    department and its efforts to realize scholarly objectives. Professor Yellen's essay is
                    especially revealing in its discussion of the ups and downs of a departmental professor in an era of
                    national depression. The same is true of Professor Russell Noyes' essay on the years
                    1928–1968. One more essay, Philip B. Daghlian's appraisal of the chairmanship of
                    James A. Work is a genuine contribution in its assessment of how far the field of English in the
                    university had advanced in a century of growth.
            This history is rich in names, and the departmental annals compiled by William Riley Parker is the
                    sort of readily available record which every university department should have at hand. This history
                    covers in detail an aspect of Indiana University which the historian of the university  could not possibly deal with in limited space. This well executed
                    history should challenge every other department to follow suit, and first in line should be the
                    Department of History.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               The Pictorial History of the American Revolution as Told by Eyewitnesses and
                        Participants. By Rupert Furneaux. With illustrations by Kay Smith. Edited by Thomas C.
                    Jones; assistant to the editor, Harriet B. Helmer. (
                        Chicago
                    : J. G. Ferguson Publishing Company, 1973. Pp. 400. Illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $19.95.)
            There really is very little point to this review other than as an object lesson in the perils of the
                    Bicentennial. It is not simply that the book under consideration lacks the distinguishing qualities
                    of a scholarly work, but that it is inadequate even as a specimen of popular history. It serves to
                    illustrate nothing more than the grubby opportunism of the marketplace.
            Stringing together a series of eyewitness accounts of military actions hardly constitutes a history
                    of the American Revolution, but taken even as a military history it is deficient. The author
                    provides little in the way of a narrative framework. The eyewitness reports are left to stand
                    without critical comment. The War for Independence might just as well be taking place on the moon
                    for all meaning the author imparts to the battles that are described. A lay reader would indeed be
                    hard put to make consecutive sense of the events that constitute the War for Independence.
            The claim to pictorial history is equally farfetched. There are all sorts of visual materials
                    scattered through the text, but little rhyme or reason for their presence. Lacking attribution for
                    the most part, it is difficult to say whether the illustrations are in fact of contemporary origin.
                    The impressionistic water colors provided by Smith are pretty but wholly inappropriate to the
                    subject, or to the claim that the work is documentary in character.
            In summary, what we have here is a glossy piece of merchandise passing as a history of the American
                    Revolution,  with little in redeeming value for a general public
                    that certainly needs to know more about its revolutionary heritage.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Bernard Friedman
         
         
            
               James Patton and the Appalachian Colonists. By Patricia Givens Johnson. (Verona,
                    Va.: McClure Press, 1973. Pp. viii, 246. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, appendix, index.
                    $7.95.)
            The American frontier produced many men of extraordinary vision and ambition capable of seizing upon
                    the boundless opportunities of a developing wilderness. Typical of this breed was James Patton whose
                    personal saga was played out on the western frontier of mideighteenth century 
                        Virginia
                    . A Northern Irish sea captain, Patton made his first contact with
                    America in the 1730s when he delivered cargoes of indentured servants to the labor hungry planters
                    of the Old Dominion. By 1737 Patton had abandoned the sea and had become involved with the
                    influential William Beverley in land speculations along the Rappahannock River.
                    Within a remarkably few years Patton emerged as one of the most powerful figures along the entire 
                        Virginia
                     frontier. Settling in the sparsely populated 
                        Augusta County
                    , Patton became the local militia commander, coroner, president of the county court, tax
                    collector, sheriff, and head of the local Presbyterian church board of commissioners. As the author
                    notes, Patton ran 
                        Augusta County
                     as a personal fiefdom with little consideration for the democratic principles that
                    supposedly flourished on the frontier.
            First and foremost Patton was a land speculator, and much of this biography is devoted to his
                    unceasing efforts to acquire more land patents. Although the author does not choose to comment on
                    the subject, Patton's experience is an excellent example of the role played by land
                    speculators in the settlement of America. Patton was a greedy man driven by an insatiable hunger for
                    wealth and power. One result of his pursuit of riches is that he explored and surveyed a vast region
                    of the frontier, publicized the availability of choice lands, and thus hastened the populating of
                    those areas. Another result was that he necessarily had to involve himself in Indian relations in
                    order to improve the security of his holdings  and thus make
                    them more attractive to potential settlers. In this latter endeavor Patton was neither skilled nor
                    lucky. As an agent of 
                        Virginia
                     his efforts to deal with the Iroquois were inept. Worse, he happened to be one of the
                    few military leaders on the 
                        Virginia
                     frontier following the disastrous ending of General Braddock's campaign. He
                    died at the hands of the Indians in 1755 while leading a pitifully small band of militia.
            Although based on patient research, this volume does not qualify as great history. The author fails
                    to place Patton in the larger historical context of the great events shaping America at midcentury.
                    Patton was very much part of the story of two great empires struggling for dominance over North
                    America. He was also a relevant figure in explaining American expansionism and in evaluating
                    American interaction with the Indians. His career throws light on the old question raised by
                    Frederick Jackson Turner regarding the influence of the frontier on developing American democracy.
                    But if the book is short on analysis, the author has performed a real service in bringing to our
                    attention the fascinating life of this early frontiersman.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milivaukee Frank A. Cassell
         
         
            
               The American Territorial System. Edited by John Porter Bloom. National Archives
                    Conferences, Volume 5; Papers and Proceedings of the Conference on the History of Territories. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1973. Pp. xv, 248. End papers, notes. $10.00.)
            This volume offers a potpourri of constitutional history, local history, editorial comment, and
                    source bibliographies of great interest to any serious student of the United State territorial
                    system or of western Americana in general. Editor Bloom has skillfully selected his contributors to
                    achieve a coverage of the history of the territorial system that is both broad and penetrating. Most
                    of them have added something worthwhile to the study of the most singularly unimperialistic empire
                    in the history of mankind.
            Space precludes detailed comment on each of the eighteen articles and commentaries making up this
                    volume. A few of them however, deserve to be singled out for their particular merits. Leonard
                    Rapport, Charles E. South, Marion M.  Johnson, and John P. Heard
                    supply bibliographical commentary which should not be missed by students in the field. Jo Tice Bloom
                    offers some real revelations as to the substantial influence often wielded by the territorial
                    delegates in Congress. Robert W. Johannsen challenges the traditional view of Stephen A. Douglas as
                    a slick power broker in the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     crisis and argues convincingly that Douglas was genuinely concerned for the rights and
                    welfare of territorial inhabitants. Likewise, Kenneth N. Owens supplies some interesting new ideas
                    concerning politics and the day to day activities of government in the territories. This reviewer,
                    however, does not entirely agree with his conclusion that "territorial government provided
                    the means by which a resident, upper-class leadership could fashion structures of government
                    congruent with those in the older states" (p. 174).
            The only disappointments in the volume are the contributions by Arthur Bestor and Robert F.
                    Berkhofer, Jr. Bestor, in his section entitled "Constitutionalism and the Settlement of the
                    West: The Attainment of Consensus, 1754–1784," overlooks the development of a
                    consensus on western independence from the Atlantic littoral before the American
                    Revolution. Although he does mention Benjamin Franklin's "Plan of Union,"
                    which was presented at the 
                        Albany
                     Conference, Bestor does not appear to notice how, here as elsewhere, 
                        Franklin
                     was expressing the general public sentiment in the American colonies. Further research
                    reveals that the concept of western autonomy was well developed before the Revolution and that it
                    formed the ideological substance of dozens of proposals for extending Anglo-American settlement
                    westward for over twenty years prior to the Revolution. What happened afterward was more the
                    implementation of the consensus than its achievement. Bestor's assertions that the
                    Proclamation of 1763 was of "far greater importance, from almost every point of
                    view" than 
                        Franklin
                    's 
                        Albany
                     Plan and that the Proclamation's "underlying principles were the same
                    as those of the 
                        Albany
                     Plan" (p. 15) simply do not stand up in the sources.
            Berkhofer's article, "The Northwest Ordinance and the Principle of Territorial
                    Evolution," is free from such gross errors but falls rather short of success in its effort
                    to relate the "republican ideology" of the Revolution to the principles of
                    territorial government. Berkhofer does skillfully quote 
                    Benjamin Rush to show that a territory must evolve into "a fertile, well regulated
                    district," inhabited by men "of property and good character" before the
                    status of statehood is deserved (pp. 50–51). In so doing, however, he misses at least two
                    essential points: the synergy of the American Revolution's antiimperialism with the natural
                    determination of revolutionaries to propagate their institutions and their ethics and, above all,
                    the ideological amorphousness, born of a most explicit eschewal of specific ideology, which made the
                    American Revolution so different and which explains why a democratic regime followed. It seems
                    dangerous to generalize for the whole Revolution from Rush or any other single
                    "ideologue"; even if this works for tyrannical revolutions, it cannot work here.
                    Nevertheless, Berkhofer's contribution represents a useful point from which a discussion of
                    these issues may begin.
            
               
                        
                     Los Angeles, California
                  
                     Chad J. Wozniak
         
         
            
               Landlords and Tenants on the 
                            Prairie
                         Frontier: Studies in American Land Policy. By Paul W. Gates. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1973. Pp. vii, 333. Notes, index. $12.50)
            Paul W. Gates has long been recognized as a scholar who relies on primary source material for
                    interpretations of settlement and land use on the frontier. In Landlords and Tenants on
                        the 
                            Prairie
                         Frontier he has collected more than two decades of his own articles on how
                    public lands in the northern prairies came into private hands prior to the Homestead Act of 1862.
                    Some changes in content and annotated bibliographic comments leading the reader to more recent works
                    bring the book up to date. The excellent introduction contains a summary of his ideas on the subject
                    of land policy, including his own speculation on the effects of federal policy and the problems of
                    placing a specific monetary value on frontier land.
            The unifying thesis of this book is Gates' conviction that laws governing the occupation and
                    sale of land have had a strong and lasting effect, on the economic, social, and political
                    development of prairie lands. Chapters about the prairies of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     indicate that large landholding by speculators and the consequent tenant and labor
                    systems retarded the development of public services such as roads,  schools, and churches. This made the land a questionable bargain for
                    the settler and his family. Gates argues strongly that in the last analysis the delayed development
                    is traceable to federal land law, which through its pricing and sale system, made it easy for the
                    speculator to acquire almost unlimited tracts but very difficult for the common man to start a
                    family farm. His conclusion is paradoxical—on the one hand land speculators and money
                    lenders hampered the democratic development of the areas controlled; on the other hand, they may
                    have been the only possible vehicle for settlement of any kind.
            Broader than the title indicates, the book touches on many other subjects, including southern
                    investment in northern land, farming techniques, and systems of tenancy. It cites the effect of
                    confusion over land titles on settlement in 
                        Kentucky
                     to illustrate the importance of land law and follows the development of some major land
                    holdings well into the twentieth century. Gates believes that systems developed before the Civil War
                    on the prairies of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     set the patterns for bonanza farms and cattle ranches in the West.
            As with any collection of material not written as a unit there are repetitions of fact and
                    interpretation, but these are overshadowed by the depth of research and strength of analysis.
                    Detailed descriptions of many situations make this book useful to local historians as well as those
                    interested in the broader aspects of American land policy. Simply as a collection of reprints, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                            Prairie
                         Frontier would render a service to historians of land use, but Paul W.
                    Gates' new comments make it a contribution to scholarship.
            
               Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Museum and Memorials, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Eric Gilbertson
         
         
            
               Makers of American Diplomacy: From Benjamin Franklin to Henry Kissinger. Edited
                    by Frank J. Merli and Theodore A. Wilson. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1974. Pp. xix, 728. Notes, illustrations,
                    bibliographic notes, index. $17.50.)
            A key-figures approach gives unity to this important collection of essays on formulation and
                    implementation of  American foreign policy. Convinced that
                    "men, not abstractions such as Wall Street, the Eastern Establishment, or the 
                        United States
                    " (p. xv), make this country's diplomacy, Editors Merli and Wilson
                    selected twenty-five officials for scholarly scrutiny. These officials include obvious choices:
                    Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, James K. Polk, Woodrow Wilson, Theodore and 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt, and Harry Truman. Other essays consider a succession of leading diplomats
                    from Benjamin Franklin and John Quincy Adams to Dean Acheson, John Foster Dulles, and Henry
                    Kissinger. There are also portraits of naval officers Charles Wilkes and Alfred Thayer Mahan, Far
                    East experts Willard Straight and Stanley Hornbeck, Soviet specialist George Kennan, and Senator
                    John W. Fulbright among other influential second echelon figures.
            In selecting contributors the editors also achieved considerable geographical, ideological, and
                    generational balance. There are New Left revisionists as well as more orthodox realist and
                    nationalist interpreters. Writers include prize winning young historians like John Gaddis and Ross
                    Gregory and established senior scholars such as Robert Divine, Robert Ferrell, Norman Graebner,
                    Lawrence S. Kaplan, and David M. Fletcher. Since both editors completed graduate work at Indiana
                    University, it is not surprising that nine history graduates and faculty members from this school
                    contributed essays, and all these selections conform to the same high professional standard.
            Despite a diversity of subjects and divergent perspectives, Merli and Wilson successfully imposed a
                    consistent pattern on the biographical sketches. Each is about twenty-five pages long and contains
                    brief bibliographical notes but not full scholarly citations. In addition, illustrative cartoons and
                    biographical sketches of the contributors add to the volume's usefulness as a teaching
                    tool.
            Naturally in an enterprise of this magnitude there are many controversial interpretations. Some
                    readers, for example, will dispute Cecil Currey's conclusion that Benjamin Franklin was a
                    self seeking corruptionist who gained coincidental benefits for America while pursuing his own ends.
                    The volume as a whole also has certain understandable limitations—including an aura of
                    academic exclusiveness. It should surprise no one that the policymakers whom professors opt  to write about are successful cerebrals—
                        Franklin
                    , Adams, Kennan, and Kissinger—not diplomatic dunderheads. A well rounded
                    picture of American diplomacy might also include a few sketches of fumbling professors, bumbling
                    political hacks, and hard nosed businessmen assigned to distant legations.
            There are other shortcomings. About twenty-five per cent of the selections deal with the
                    1940s—a fact reflecting both the quantity of scholarly activity and the preoccupation of
                    academics with Roosevelt-Truman policies. Finally, except for Michael Roskin, a former foreign
                    service officer writing on Kissinger, the list of contributors apparently does not include writers
                    with diplomatic or political experience.
            In balance, this is an important volume—one certain to stimulate student interest in
                    diplomatic history.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Alfred E. Eckes, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Progressive Era. Edited by Lewis L. Gould. (
                        Syracuse
                    : 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1974. Pp. x, 238. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $9.95; paperbound, $4.95.)
            This collection of essays was designed first to give students a convenient introduction to the latest
                    scholarship on the progressive period and second to give younger scholars an opportunity to present
                    original interpretations. It succeeds admirably in the first goal; but, like any collection, several
                    of the essays are not particularly pathbreaking. The common strand that unites them, as Professor
                    Gould observes, is a more positive attitude toward the period's achievements than would
                    have been likely in such a collection a few years ago.
            Stanley P. Caine finds the origins of progressivism in the social traumas and new corporate and tax
                    dodging abuses that accompanied the depression of 1893–1897. R. Laurence Moore argues
                    that progressive intellectuals were naive and confused because they tried to merge conflicting goals
                    such as science and morality, democracy and efficiency, environmentalism and free will, liberation
                    and organization. Lewis L. Gould describes how conflicts between Republican leaders—and
                    he particularly blames Theodore Roosevelt—destroyed 
                    the unified coalition which William McKinley had put together, leaving the GOP with weak leaders and
                    a conservative direction by 1912. John J. Broesamle shows how Woodrow Wilson managed, by committing
                    the Democratic party to support for weak interest groups, to build a remarkable—and
                    fragile—coalition that surmounted the clashing constituents and negativist traditions
                    which had made the party the minority one during most of this period.
            James Penick, Jr., describes familiar attitudes toward exploitation of the environment and concludes
                    that the largest weakness of progressive conservationists, whatever approach they favored, was their
                    elitism. Melvin G. Holli contrasts democratic "social reform" mayors like 
                        Detroit
                    's Hazen Pingree with the mainstream of municipal reform. His penetrating
                    analysis demonstrates how the nineteenth century mugwumpish and elitist approach to city problems
                    paved the way for the professional city managers who wanted to redistribute power from the lower
                    classes to business and professional groups. Holli concludes that the costs, and not the forms, of
                    city government triggered agitations. Wilton B. Fowler argues that defensive and strategic concerns
                    primarily shaped the period's diplomacy. Thomas K. McCraw suggests that the era's
                    mixed legacy resulted from unresolved conflicts among cardinal progressive tenets: democracy,
                    pietism, trust in professionalization and efficiency, faith in political solutions, tendency to see
                    problems as abstractions, and fear of radical alternatives.
            Scholars will quibble with the more suggestive essays. Did voters influence the course of the debates
                    among reform spokesmen that Holli analyzes? Gould assumes that a political party should try, above
                    all, to keep broad coalitions together, as McKinley did; and he obviously regrets the ideological
                    quarrels that split the GOP. But is party harmony more satisfying to voters than a real debate and a
                    choice, say between Nelson W. Aldrich and Robert M. La Follette, within a party? Did voters play any
                    role in the developing internal problems among the progressives? Should popular conflicts be
                    compromised or ignored? Instead of lamenting these conflicts, McCraw seems to assume that such
                    struggles did not exist, that one huge progressive consensus lay behind the institutional legacies
                    of the period. He quotes Ralph Nader's indictment of regulatory agencies as though large
                         numbers of consumer conscious progressives had not made
                    precisely the same indictment at the time. Can one safely assume that only one group of actors
                    created the legacy of an entire period in which debates were often fierce?
            
               University of 
                     Missouri,
                                Columbia
                  
                David P. Thelen
         
         
            
               Failure of a Dream? Essays in the History of American Socialism. Edited by John
                    H. M. Laslett and Seymour Martin Lipset. (
                  Garden
                        City, N. Y.
               : Anchor Press/
                    Doubleday, 1974. Pp. xiii, 754. Notes, index. Cloth-bound, $12.95; paperbound,
                    $5.95.)
            During the last decade there has been a revival of interest in the history of American socialism.
                    Motivated in part by their own involvement in the social conflict of recent years, younger
                    historians have questioned the basic assumptions of earlier interpretations. In 1952 Daniel Bell
                    found in socialism a chiliastic movement ill suited for the politics of a modern industrial society,
                    while in 1967 James Weinstein discovered a Marxian political party viable within the American
                    tradition. Failure of a Dream? reproduces some of the major writings of this
                    debate and furthers discussion with the inclusion of new material. Each major essay in the
                    collection is accompanied by a critical comment by another scholar, which in turn is followed by a
                    reply from the first author. Thus the book has a verve and vitality unusual in collected essays, as
                    intellectual opponents such as John Laslett and Phillip Foner, Steven Thernstrom and Seymour Martin
                    Lipset confront each other directly.
            The essays are grouped around two major themes, which are initially explored in an introductory
                    exchange between the editors. The first account points to various internal weaknesses in the
                    movement itself—in ideology, leadership, and tactics—and examines how in the
                    specific historical context of pre-World War I America these factors contributed to
                    socialism's failure. The second approach explores the idea that the American movement would
                    have remained weak regardless of the strategy of the party, for American culture itself usurped the
                    millennial promise of socialism.
            
               Failure of a Dream? is a valuable collection for both the general reader and the
                    serious student and is especially useful  for the classroom. Its
                    discussion of American culture and values and its more specific examination of the questions of
                    social mobility, trade unionism, and agrarianism contribute to a better understanding of socialism
                    and American social history in general.
            In viewing the collection as a whole, however, one is startled by the omission of any discussion of
                    religion beyond Marc Karson's sterile treatment of Catholic antisocialism or
                    Bell's dismissal of the movement as too religious. Since little is available in published
                    form, this is not simply an oversight of the editors; yet, American culture has been deeply
                    influenced by religious thinking, and the period of socialism's promise and greatest
                    strength coincided almost exactly with a major religious revival. The spiritual crisis that
                    accompanied industrialization evoked, as Timothy L. Smith has suggested, a public commitment to
                    Christian values greater than at any time between the Civil War and World War II. These feelings
                    influenced the socialist movement and were one important source of its opposition to emerging
                    corporate society. That Eugene Debs had a portrait of Christ, and not Marx, in his prison cell at 
                        Atlanta
                     was not simply a personal pecularity but was representative of many in the party.
                    Further study of the relationship between a self defined Marxist movement and religious thought is
                    needed and would perhaps provide additional clarity for many of the debates in this collection.
            
               University of 
                            California
                        , Berkeley Nicholas Salvatore
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Iowa
                        . By Leland L. Sage. (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1974. Pp. xii, 376. Maps, figures, tables, illustrations,
                    notes, index. $9.95.)
            Iowans have been less successful in developing a comprehensive historical literature dealing with
                    their state than have some of their midwestern neighbors. Opinions differ as to whether this is
                    attributable to the division of resources between two official historical agencies, the natural
                    perversity of the Hawkeye, so lovingly delineated by Meredith Wilson, or still other reasons. But it
                    is a fact that eras in which outstanding progress has been made in collecting manuscripts,
                    developing library resources, and encouraging the  writing of
                    articles and books of quality about 
                        Iowa
                     have been all too rare in the state's history. Although dedicated amateurs,
                    capable professionals, and well intentioned politicians have enlisted in the cause, perverse
                    troglodytes have also helped in shaping 
                        Iowa
                    's state history programs, and the alternatives posed have sometimes been
                    tragi-comic. Should there be more manuscript collecting and fewer steamboat excursions? Why preserve
                    Bob Feller's uniform lovingly, having thrown out the state records dealing with an
                    important state business, the insurance industry, in order to make room for a new lavatory?
                    Frustrations about such matters have sometimes reached high levels indeed, and recent dueling
                    challenges bandied within the Board of Curators of the Historical Society were more than mere
                    horseplay.
            For some forty years Leland L. Sage moved unperturbed through this unpredictable environment,
                    unfailingly courteous and usually with a knowing twinkle in his eyes. Arriving at 
                        Iowa
                     State Teachers College with a Ph.D. in European history, he discovered that the local
                    library holdings and his own personal resources would not support the continuing research that he
                    believed every historian should pursue. He turned, therefore, to midwestern history, devoting many
                    years to the preparation of a meticulous and comprehensive biography of one of 
                        Iowa
                    's most powerful politicians, Senator William Boyd Allison.
            In the volume reviewed here, Professor Sage has tried to fill the long felt need for a scholarly one
                    volume history of the state of 
                        Iowa
                    . He does not regard his work as definitive and indeed is hopeful that it will be tested
                    by others engaging in similar ventures. The books of such writers plus additional research projects
                    will pave the way, he suggests, for a scholarly multivolume history of 
                        Iowa
                    . But here, in a text of 335 pages plus notes, Sage has provided a succinct, readable
                    volume which in general incorporates the findings of recent relevant research. Sage has maintained a
                    high level of objectivity throughout the narrative and has laid a number of old myths to rest in the
                    process. True, he is a bit too concerned with "firsts" and somewhat given to
                    moralizing, but he carries neither to excess.
            Sage's keen interest in the political history of the nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries is evident in the chronological emphasis of this book, and some will conclude that he  has paid less attention to economic, social, and cultural
                    history than is appropriate. This reviewer falls in the latter group, but he also realizes that
                    Sage's emphasis to a considerable extent follows the emphasis of the historical literature
                    that was available to him. On balance Sage has rendered a great service to lowans and to the members
                    of the scholarly community. It is hoped that publication of this book along with recent changes in 
                        Iowa
                    's historical programs presage a new productive era in the support and writing
                    of 
                        Iowa
                     history.
            
               University of 
                     Wisconsin,
                                Madison
                  
                Allan G. Bogue
         
         
            
               The University of 
                            Kansas
                        : A History. By Clifford S. Griffin. (Lawrence: The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1974. Pp. xiv, 808. Illustrations, notes, index. $20.00.)
            Griffin's book tells of the evolution of a university from its chartering in 1863 to the
                    present time. The 
                        Kansas
                     legislature separated the need for a university from that for an agricultural college
                    and established separate institutions. The Morrill Land Grant Act of 1862, however, was the spur to
                    the establishment of any kind of university. The University of 
                        Kansas
                    , without the land grant, struggled into existence amid public disinterest, lack of
                    students, and the absence of legislative support. The citizenry was confused about the nature of a
                    university, and that confusion was translated into opposition or indifference.
            Although Griffin's book, like most institutional histories, moves slowly through endless
                    facts of encyclopedic proportions, the work has several redeeming features. The author is obviously
                    at his best as he traces the role of the faculty in shaping curriculum and institutional programs.
                    How a faculty matured is well described here, better perhaps than in most volumes of this kind. The
                    growth of professionalization and departmentalization weaves its way through the story with periodic
                    encounters with efforts to refocus administrative control. Griffin also advances and defends the
                    thesis that the changes in student social life and activities were as much influenced by
                    specialization and professionalization as by the rise of student hedonism. Another assessment that
                    raises this volume above some others is the analysis  of the
                    relationship of populism and progressivism to the rise of the university. How that relationship
                    differed from the one in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and other states is interesting but not sufficiently developed.
            A major criticism of the book is that in cataloging facts, the author obscures many strong passages.
                    The very human story of Professor James H. Canfield as he comes and goes through the narrative is
                    obscured by hundreds of faceless characters, without any human dimension, who occupy roles as
                    faculty, regents, students, and legislators. The story has an impersonal, monolithic feeling about
                    it, as though the institution in the end triumphed over the individuals, and perhaps it did. Another
                    major criticism is that the story of the University of 
                        Kansas
                     is not related to the broader history of higher education. Griffin does better than
                    most, but he ignores efforts over the past decade toward more comparative institutional histories.
                    One regrets the absence of a bibliography in this handsome volume. The general tendency of faculty
                    not to put their papers in archives is shown once again by the paucity of references to such
                    records.
            On balance, Griffin has written a very fine book, meticulous in its attention to fact, perhaps a good
                    compromise for those who pay for institutional histories and those who try to make use of them.
            
               Wittenberg University, 
                     Springfield,
                                Ohio
                  
                William A.
                Kinnison
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Farm. By Wheeler McMillen. Illustrations by John D. Firestone and Associates. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1974. Pp. x, 220. Illustrations. $11.00.)
            In the preface and first chapter the author tells the intent of his book: "to describe what
                    went on in field, barn, house and rural neighborhood" during the years his father called
                    his "golden years," about 1900 to 1915; also to be "a sort of
                    biography" of the author's father, L. D. McMillen.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Farm is museum like in its faithful portrayal of method, machinery, and life
                    pattern of those farm years. The author, later editor of Farm Journal, sometimes
                    sets new ways beside ways of "the golden years," but without lamentation or
                    glorification. He simply shows them, and answers the  questions
                    his book raises. Among modern advantages the author notes: "With postwar development of
                    poisons a farm can be easily kept free of rats" (p. 46). But as one of the disadvantages,
                    he observes that "people able today to buy seasonal foods the year around cannot imagine
                    the delight these things, such as strawberries, rhubarb, mushrooms … gave a family that
                    had them only in brief season" (p. 46).
            Delightful are descriptions of churning as "cream being jostled into butter"; of
                    hunting arrowheads and mushrooms; his father banking the house with strawy manure for winter warmth;
                    his mother making maple syrup of corncobs and pies of ground cherries; the affectionate account of
                    old Doc, the family driving horse, and the hired men who lived with the family; of building the
                    house and barn; of Grange meetings and fishing vacations.
            L. D. McMillen's efficiency and good management are attested by his ability to buy a 125
                    acre farm at $35 an acre, and from its income to pay for it and make a good living; build
                    a new house and barn; hire and house a fulltime assistant; take vacations; and help his son buy a
                    newspaper—all, moreover, during an era to which history accords three periods of economic
                    stagnation.
            Each farm crop activity is minutely described, separately. A reader unacquainted with farming might
                    get the impression that farming goes on an orderly schedule, no activity encroaching on another.
                    Actually on most farms they collide, as the hay getting ready before the corn is laid by, to the
                    distress of farmers. But whether acquainted or unacquainted with farming, a reader will feel he has
                    lived and worked a full year on the McMillen farm, known its wearinesses and its family, and shared
                    its richness which the author suggests is perhaps greater in retrospect than it seemed at the time.
            The reader admires L. D. McMillen for many qualities: thrift; honesty; neighborliness; appreciation
                    of leisure, land, and education. And yet the reader steadily feels something missing in the
                    portrait. Is the father unimaginative? The picture lacks warmth. Perhaps the author's
                    conscientious effort to keep himself in the background is part of the reason. It creates a slight
                    stiffness, an impression of self consciousness. But in the last paragraphs, with the
                    author's words, reprinted from Farm and Fireside, the missing piece of
                    portrait is fitted into place. All the warmth and love flow  in,
                    adding a vital last touch to a fine, honest book that succeeds in doing what the author set out to
                    do. 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Farm deserves a place on the reference shelf, with the seed and machinery
                    catalogs, and the almanacs.
            
               Blooming ton, Indiana Rachel Peden
         
         
            
               A Hoosier Holiday. By Theodore Dreiser. Illustrations by Franklin Booth.
                    Reprint. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, Publishers, 1974. Pp. 513. Illustrations. $19.50.)
            This reprint of Dreiser's 1916 book is an expensive but appropriate way to revive a
                    surprisingly vital minor work, retaining 
                        Franklin
                     Booth's shadowy, expressive sketches, without editorial apparatus. A Hoosier Holiday was conceived by Booth and Dreiser as a joint pot boiler, and
                    the book has suffered from this image as well as from the fact that it came in the backwash from
                    Dreiser's first burst of creative effort—four large novels between 1911 and
                    1915. Booth shared the meager profits and his sketches have a genuine life of their own. The text is
                    vintage Dreiser, full of his brooding over the tragedy and transcience of life, full of his constant
                    shuttling between bitterness and tenderness, vulgarity and delicacy, determinism and sentimental
                    love of life sharp insight and bland commonplace. Holiday is thus mostly irony.
                    The return to the scenes of his early life in 
                  Terre
                        Haute, Warsaw, Sullivan, Evansville
               , and 
                        Bloomington
                    , planned as a "working holiday," was painful in all the predictable
                    ways. A genial, popular account of travel and reminiscence was for Dreiser impossible. Nevertheless,
                    as cranky and sometimes clumsy as Dreiser was, all the documents in his dogged search for the truth
                    about himself and his world are still impressive. We are embarrassed for him when he seems to be as
                    shaken by mooning over unrequited puppy love as by confronting social injustice or human
                    delinquency, but part of the embarrassment is for ourselves. The principal change in the atmosphere
                    of the book from 1916 to the present is that Dreiser's iconoclasm, pessimism, and outrage
                    are no longer shocking, although the fact that they were shocking in 1916 and for a long time after
                    is enlightening in itself.
            Sixty years have added interesting dimensions to A Hoosier Holiday as a historical
                    document. The first half of  the book takes us, in
                    Booth's new touring car, through 
                  New
                        Jersey, Pennsylvania
                (long before
                    the turnpike), western 
                        New York
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    . Dreiser revelled in the adventurousness of automobile travel with top speeds of
                    forty-five miles an hour, many blowouts, and treacherous, unimproved roads. There are brilliant
                    vignettes of people and places, often interrupted, of course, by Dreiserian digressions. The Hoosier
                    half of the book is darker and more personal, but no Indiana historian can ignore it.
            By far the most appreciative and profound review of A Hoosier Holiday was by
                    Dreiser's great champion, H. L. Mencken, who, as advisor and editor, may also have had a
                    lot to do with the final text. Mencken was sure that here, "for the first time,"
                    was "a clear understanding of the fundamental faiths and ideas, and of the intellectual and
                    spiritual background no less, of a man with whom the future historian of American literature will
                    have to deal at no little length." In 1916, this was an opinion of a minute minority. It is
                    clearly vindicated today, even though A Hoosier Holiday does not challenge
                    Dreiser's best novels for literary status, and as autobiographical material was superseded
                    by A Book About Myself (1922) and Dawn (1931).
                    Mencken's review, along with a generous selection of other notices, is reprinted in Jack
                    Salzman, Theodore Dreiser: The Critical Reception (1972). A modern editor might
                    have provided an index, but for most purposes the table of contents, listing the names of the
                    sixty-one short chapters, is sufficient.
            
               
                  
                            Wabash
                         College, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana Walter L. Fertig
         
         
            Ashbel P. Willard's Paper Wanted
            Materials by and about Ashbel P. Willard, governor of Indiana from 1857 to 1860, are needed for a
                    biographical study now in progress. Please forward any information about Willard's
                    correspondence, journals, etc., to: Gerald O. Haffner, Department of History, Indiana University
                    Southeast, 4201 Grant Line Road, P. O. Box 679, 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana 47150
         
         
         
            Review Notices*
            
            
               A Guide to Southern Indiana. By William and Gayle Cook. Second edition. (
                        Bloomington
                    : The authors, 1974. Pp. 35. Illustrations, bibliography, index, map. Pamphlet,
                    $1.95.) Any who have made systematic use of Cooks' initial edition of their
                    guide to southern Indiana will find this somewhat revised and enlarged edition even more useful. Not
                    intended as a complete guide, it nonetheless conveys much information about the natural features,
                    scenic areas, and historic sites and structures of southern Hoosierdom. It is especially helpful in
                    providing interesting items about small towns and rural areas, and offers an excellent guide to
                    those who have not yet discovered the region's growing number of excellent eating places.
            
               Tracing 
                            Minnesota
                        's Old Government Roads. By Grover Singley. 
                        Minnesota
                     Historic Sites Pamphlet Series, No. 10. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1974. Pp. 52. Maps, illustrations, notes. Paperbound,
                    $3.95.) Although some of the detail included in this publication may be of limited
                    interest, this study offers useful and interesting information about the origins and history of
                    early roads of 
                        Minnesota
                    . The pamphlet emphasizes five military roads, financed and largely completed by the
                    federal government during the 1850s. The narrative is much enhanced by one general and additional
                    separate maps for all five of the government sponsored roads. The research and travel done by Grover
                    Singley in preparation for this study illustrates how "amateur" historians,
                    working with "professional" historians can make important contributions to state
                    and local history.
            
               Massacres of the Mountains: A History of the Indian Wars of the Far West. By Jacob
                    P. Dunn, Jr. Reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Capricorn Books, 1969. Pp. iv, 654. Notes, illustrations, list of authorities, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.25.) Jacob Piatt Dunn, both as an historian and as state librarian for
                    Indiana, made varied and important contributions to historical study. His books concerning the
                    history of Indiana, as well as his study of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , are essential reference works quite useful if used with an awareness of the nature
                        
                  
                     * Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written
                            by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
               
                     and limitations of historical writing during the late
                    nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. But as the title above indicates, Dunn's
                    historical endeavors were not restricted to Indiana or even the Middle West. Unfortunately Massacres of the Mountains did not come to the editor's attention when
                    republished in 1969, hence this belated notice of it. Published almost ninety years ago, this volume
                    is worthy of perusal for its account of Indian warfare in the area west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     during the nineteenth century. Its initial chapter regarding the relationships between
                    whites and Indians merits study. Though like most people of his time Dunn anticipated the ultimate,
                    perhaps early, absorption of the Indian into "American" civilization, his comments
                    reflect an understanding of the various abuses, dilemmas, currents, and problems which had long
                    persisted in Indian-white relations.
            
               
                  
                            Hamilton county
                         and the Civil War. By Joe H. Burgess. (Privately printed: The author, 1973.
                    Pp. VIII, 252. Illustrations, tables, maps, notes, index. $6.95, plus sales tax in
                    Indiana.) Presumably only a Civil War buff could, or at least would, have produced so comprehensive
                    an account of the role of one county in the American Civil War. Information about the approximately
                    2,400 men from 
                        Hamilton county
                    , Indiana, who served in the war includes: whether they entered as volunteers or
                    draftees; campaigns in which they fought; care for families of soldiers on the home front; the later
                    role of veterans in public service; and cemeteries in which the Civil War combatants were interred.
                    In so doing Burgess sheds light on important facets of the Civil War and its impact on 
                        Hamilton county
                    .
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        : A Chronological & Documentary History, 1784–1970. Compiled
                    and edited by Howard B. Furer. American Cities Chronology Series. Edited by Howard B. Furer. (Dobbs
                    Ferry, 
                        N. Y.
                    : Oceana Publications, Inc., 1974. Pp. v, 153. Bibliography, name index.
                    $7.50.) According to the editor's foreword, "The purpose of this books
                        [sic] is to relate in a concise form the history, growth and development of
                    the great middle-western metropolis—
                        Chicago
                    . A detailed chronology, a series of primary documents, and interesting contemporary  accounts, and an annotated bibliography form the three sections
                    of this work" (p. v). One in a series of similar books on American cities, and closely
                    resembling in content and format a related series covering some of the states of the 
                        United States
                    , books of this kind doubtless have some value in encouraging persons to study the
                    history of states and cities but they should be supplemented by use of more scholarly accounts.
            
               Arming the Union: Small Arms in the Civil War. By Carl L. Davis. National
                    University Publications, Series in American Studies. Edited by James P. Sheton.
                            (
                  Port Washington, N. Y.
               : Kennikat Press, 1973. Pp. xiii, 207. Illustrations,
                    references and notes, bibliography, index. $12.50.) Davis breaks with standard and
                    traditional interpretations of the role played by the 
                        United States
                     War Department and its Ordnance Bureau during the Civil War. Though agreeing with many
                    earlier historians that the federal government was woefully unprepared for a major conflict, he
                    credits the War Department with doing a commendable job in a reasonably expeditious manner under
                    considerable duress of circumstances. The author presents significant evidence in support of this
                    thesis. He puts into perspective some of the tormenting administrative problems which were faced in
                    arming the Union forces. He also points out that the fighting during the Civil War was much less a
                    matter of hand to hand combat at close quarters than what has so often been pictured.
            
               The National Road: Main Street of America. By Norris F. Schneider. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, 1975. Pp. iii, 40. Illustrations, map, bibliography. Paperbound,
                    $2.50.) Norris F. Schneider, of 
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               , gives a very
                    informative and extremely interesting overview of the National Road from the time it was only a
                    dream in the minds of men in the late eighteenth century to its recent eclipse by Interstate 70.
                    Profusely illustrated, Schneider tells the story of the road's construction but also of its
                    use by immigrants, drovers, teamsters, stagecoaches, the Pony Express, bicycles, automobiles, and
                    trucks. Now that Interstate 70 has made the National Road (Highway 40) less cluttered with traffic,
                    those wanting to travel the National Road—or Cumberland Road  as it was known from its eastern terminal—will find
                    Schneider's account, along with the references listed in his bibliography, an enlightening
                    companion for such travel.
            
               To Set a Country Free: An Account Derived from the Exhibition in the Library of Congress
                        Commemorating the 200th Anniversary of American Independence. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1975. Pp. 74. Illustrations. Paperbound, $4.50.) One
                    of a continuing series of publications under the auspices of the Library of Congress, To Set A Country Free is based on an exhibit by the Library of Congress commemorating the
                    American Revolution Bicentennial. Many of its illustrations appeared in this exhibit. Collectively
                    the illustrations and related commentary offer an overview of the War for Independence, giving
                    special emphasis on its military and diplomatic aspects. Events and developments west of the
                    Appalachians, however, have been ignored in this publication. Copies of this booklet may be obtained
                    from the Information Office, Library of Congress, 
                        Washington, D. C.
                     20540.
            
               The Secret Orders & "… great things have been Done by a few
                        Men …": Letters of Patrick Henry and George Rogers Clark
                        Issued in Facsimile by the Indiana Historical Society as a Contribution to the Observance of the
                        Bicentennial of the American Revolution. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1974. Pp. [11]. Paperbound, $6.00.) The secret
                    orders given by Governor Patrick Henry of 
                        Virginia
                     to George Rogers Clark concerning his military efforts north of the Ohio
                        River, constitute a key document as regards the American Revolution in the West.
                    Consideration of these orders helps illuminate the circumstances surrounding the fighting in the
                    West during the struggle for independence and Clark's role therein. The publication of the
                    orders and related items by the Indiana Historical Society is an appropriate contribution to the
                    American Revolution Bicentennial.
            
               Revolutionary War Era in Indiana. By Arville L. Funk. (Corydon, Ind.: ALFCO
                    Publications, 1975. Pp. 37. Illustrations, maps, selected readings. Pamphlet, $2.50.)
                    Arville Funk provides a popular summary of military efforts in the Indiana area during the American
                    Revolution. Emphasis is given to the 1778–1789 western campaign of George Rogers  Clark, but Funk also comments upon the La Balme Massacre, the
                    Battle of the Dunes, and the Lochry Massacre. A roster of Indiana markers and monuments pertaining
                    to the American Revolution is presented on a county by county basis.
            
               
                  
                            Delaware County
                        , Indiana, 1827–1850: The Pioneer Period. Edited by Althea L.
                    Stoeckel and Ross S. Johnson. (
                        Muncie
                    : Ball State University, 1975. Pp. iv, 72. Notes, illustrations, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $1.95, plus sales tax in Indiana.) The papers in this booklet were
                    principally prepared by undergraduate students at Ball State University during the last few years.
                    To a large extent they are based on archival material which Ball State University acquired from 
                        Delaware County
                     when its courthouse was razed nearly a decade ago. Research in this material has been
                    fostered at Ball State as a means of helping students to understand the process of historical
                    research and writing.
            
               Small Hoosier Lines: 
                            Marion
                        , Bluffton & Eastern *** 
                  
                     Kokomo, Marion
                   & Western. By William F. Nedden. (Milwaukee:
                    Nedden Publishing Co., 1975. Pp. 31. Notes, Pamphlet, $2.00.) As suggested by the above
                    title, William F. Nedden offers summary views of two small interurban lines which comprised part of
                    the large interurban railroad network of Indiana from about the 1890s through the 1930s. The author
                    discusses these two lines in the context of transportation development generally.
            
               A Hoosier Rabbinate. By Rabbi Morris M. Feuerlicht. Indiana Jewish Historical
                    Society Publications, No. 4. (
                        Fort Wayne
                    : Indiana Jewish Historical Society, 1974. Pp. 72. Illustrations. Pamphlet, free.) These
                    altogether too brief memoirs of Rabbi Morris M. Feuerlicht merit a wide reading. Rabbi Feuerlicht,
                    who served the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Hebrew Congregation for almost a half century, also devoted himself to scholarship at 
                        Butler
                     University and to public service. These memoirs, reprinted from Lives and
                        Voices, by Dr. Stanley F. Chayet, are available for the cost of postage from The Indiana
                    Jewish Historical Society, Room 303 Standard Building, 215 East Berry Street, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana 46802; or from the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith,
                    Indiana Regional Office, 1100 West 42nd Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46208.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
