
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 90, Issue 3, pages 203-310. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:90+issue:3+year:1994&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Rural Life in Indiana, 1800–1950*
            
            Barbara J. Steinson
            
                    The wind with the rain blew a great deel of my corn down which caused it with so mutch rain to
                        damage very mutch. I am now trying to gether it as fast as I can & I should have been
                        dun but hands cant be hired here at no price at all hardly & I swoped work with one of
                        my neighbours, helped him cut Broom Corn for him to help me gether Corn, every body seams to be
                        behind with their work owing to their having been so mutch wet wether here this Summer &
                        fall & So mutch sickness a part of the latter part of Aug & the first of Sep
                        that they was not anoughf of well persons hardly in the neighborhood to wait on the Sick.1
               
                
            This passage from 
                        Decatur County
                     farmer William Tyner's December, 1855, letter to his sister and brother-in-law
                    is an appropriate prologue for an essay on the history of rural life in Indiana. With eloquent
                    simplicity these lines disclose some pivotal characteristics of Tyner's life as an Indiana
                    farmer: the impact of environmental factors and consequent uncertainties of the harvest, labor
                    shortages that necessitated carefully calculated work sharing, and extended ordeals of sickness.2 The experiences recounted in Tyner's letters illuminate rural life in
                    nineteenth-century 
                        Decatur County
                    , Indiana, but must be placed within a broader context of Indiana and midwestern rural
                    history from the early nineteenth to the late twentieth century.
            Extensive scholarship exists on midwestern land disposition policies, settlement and land ownership
                    patterns, crop production, technology of farming, commercialization of agriculture, and government
                    agricultural programs.3 In addition, in the past twenty years practitioners of
                    the "new" rural history have enhanced the study of rural life by expanding their
                    focus beyond these topics. Influenced by social history models, which examine everyday lives of
                    ordinary people in connection with large-scale socioeconomic developments, and using social science
                    methodology, including quantitative analysis, the new rural historians have developed ambitious
                    agendas that call for investigating the "lifestyle and activities of farmers and villagers,
                    their family patterns, farming 
                  
                     * Because of the extensive information contained in the
                            notes for this article, they have been published as endnotes, pp. 235–50.
               
                     practices, social structures, political activities, and
                    community institutions."4
            
            A review of historical scholarship, both the more traditional work and recent studies in the new
                    rural history, however, reveals that Indiana is among the least studied states in the Midwest.5 As in other states, pioneering generations have attracted far more scholarly
                    and popular interest than rural Hoosiers in the late nineteenth century and in the twentieth
                        century.6 Several state histories include discussions of major agricultural
                    developments within Indiana, but historians have not subjected agriculture to the rigorous attention
                    it has received elsewhere in the region.7
            
            It is curious that there has not been more historical scholarship on agriculture and rural life in
                    Indiana because the state has been overwhelmingly rural for much of its history. As late as 1880
                    four-fifths of the population was rural. Even after the population balance had shifted to urban
                    areas by 1920, Indiana had a higher proportion of its population engaged in agriculture than either 
                        Ohio
                     or 
                        Illinois
                    , both of which industrialized at faster rates.8 Although some
                    regions of Indiana experienced rural out-migration as early as the mid-nineteenth century and only a
                    minuscule fraction of Indiana residents are engaged in agriculture today, the ideology of
                    agrarianism continues to be celebrated, and Indiana's rural past retains a strong hold on
                    the state at the conclusion of the twentieth century.9 Research on rural Indiana
                    has the potential to illuminate the state's history far beyond the agrarian sector and will
                    also provide data for interesting comparisons within the Midwest. The Hoosier state is the most
                    "southern" of the midwestern states in terms of the origins of its population, and
                    it attracted proportionately fewer European immigrants in the nineteenth century. More than most
                    midwestern states, its agricultural base has been dominated by two products—corn and
                    hogs—since the early nineteenth century. The smallest of the midwestern states in square
                    miles, Indiana nonetheless encompasses considerable diversity not only in topography but also in its
                    settlement history and economic development.
            Although the history of rural life in Indiana requires studies of numerous topics utilizing a variety
                    of research methods, the new rural history offers perhaps the most interesting possibilities. New
                    rural historians examine a "range of settlement patterns, including villages and small
                    towns" under the rubric of "rural."10 Robert P.
                    Swierenga has posited that "ruralness is more than location or an occupation; it is a way
                    of life"; but other scholars warn against emphasis on the "separateness of the
                    countryside" from socioeconomic developments within the nation and the world.11 Similarly, Hal S. Barron notes that in answering questions about patterns of social
                    structure and mobility in the countryside, the nature of family life, the roles of class, race,
                    gender, and ethnicity, and the influence  of ideology and mentalité, new rural historians will be able to expand knowledge of the
                    countryside and of American society as a whole. "From this perspective," Barron
                    states, "the crucial experiences in the agrarian past are not just the processes of
                    settlement and the economic and technological development of agriculture. Rather, it is equally
                    important to look at the social and political relationships that tied the countryside to the great
                    transformation of nineteenth-century America into an urban-industrial society."12
            
            Until the 1980s rural northerners like William Tyner were part of what Barron terms "a kind
                    of historiographical ‘silent majority."’13 While
                    social historians during the 1960s and 1970s concentrated on the colonial era, urbanization and
                    industrialization in the North, and the institution of slavery in the South, the social history of
                    rural life in the North languished. The publication of some innovative social histories of rural
                    life in recent years, however, marked the end of this scholarly drought, at least for some
                    northeastern and midwestern states. Unlike agricultural historians whose works are essentially
                    devoid of the men, women, and children who inhabited rural areas, these scholars and several others
                    have not only given life to rural inhabitants but have also situated their experiences within the
                    context of their families, communities, regions, and nation.14 Most of the new
                    rural history research, however, like much of the work in social history, focuses primarily on the
                    nineteenth century; rural life in the twentieth-century Midwest has received less attention by
                        historians.15
            
            John Mack Faragher's Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                            Illinois
                            Prairie
                        
                offers a model of the detailed local study of rural life that needs to be
                    written for different rural Indiana communities. Through careful examination of land office records,
                    genealogies, and census manuscripts, Faragher traces the pivotal role of kinship groups in settling
                    the Sugar Creek Valley area in central 
                        Illinois
                    . Relatives joined settled families, children of these families intermarried, and these
                    families and households formed "the essential social building blocks" of community
                    in Sugar Creek.16 Prior to 1850 land was fairly evenly distributed among
                    residents who evolved a pattern of community self-sufficiency based on "exchanges of labor,
                    products, and tools," all outside the market. Commercial farming did not evolve
                    "until the agricultural revolution of the late 1850s, the 1860s and beyond, when farms were
                    converted, in economic terms, into units of capital."17 Traditional
                    ways of thinking and acting persisted even as economic development progressed: the most successful
                    continued to believe that the best investment was additional land. At the same time class
                    distinctions became more evident as the gap widened between the large landowning families and the
                    landless farmers who worked for them.18
            
            Faragher's study of Sugar Creek is based on an impressive number and variety of sources, a
                    tribute to his skills as a researcher  and a reflection of the
                    richness of materials on that particular region of 
                        Illinois
                    . Local studies present scholars with imposing methodological problems, the most
                    significant of which is the availability of sources. Reminiscences and memoirs contain some
                    interesting anecdotes but often tend to be vague and nostalgic. Letters, diaries, and account books
                    are more useful in furnishing details of daily life although they reflect primarily the experiences
                    of the community elite. Furthermore, the availability of manuscript sources for different counties
                    within Indiana varies considerably. Court records, population and agricultural censuses, and the
                    quantitative studies by the Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station cover the entire state
                    and furnish crucial data essential for undertaking new rural histories of Indiana.19 In Indiana, as in other states, the settlement era has generated a substantial corpus of
                    "hardy pioneer" literature.20 This genre celebrates
                    individualism in conquering the wilderness but also addresses the creation of communities and
                    institutions. Along with county histories and genealogies these early works furnish information on
                    founding families and early institutions and also reveal something of the values of the community
                    elite. Tracking the progeny of early settlers in specific rural communities through succeeding
                    census years and land records offers one method of determining whether or not certain families
                    succeeded in passing on their land and influence to later generations. Painstaking thoroughness is
                    required to locate, sift through, analyze, and assemble the data for local studies. Most daunting
                    perhaps is the necessity for historians of rural life in Indiana to link their local studies to the
                    major issues identified by new rural historians, in particular the socioeconomic transformations
                    that affected the entire country in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
            Studies of rural life in Indiana informed by the methods and goals of the new rural history will
                    logically build on the scholarship on the settlement of the state. This work provides a crucial
                    foundation for understanding many of the regional variations within the state, differences that
                    often render sweeping statewide generalizations invalid. Historians have long noted the existence of
                    distinctive regions within the state, differences based not only on soil quality and topography but
                    also on variations in settlers' origins, settlement patterns, and the nature of market
                        opportunities.21 These distinctions merit review because they were
                    underscored by later developments and reverberate into the late twentieth century.
            White settlers inhabited Indiana from the south to north in a pattern that reflected the
                    accessibility of transportation routes and the removal of Native Americans.22
                    The Ohio, Wabash, and Whitewater
                    rivers and their tributaries were the focal points of much of the white settlement from
                    the late eighteenth to the mid-nineteenth century.23 Upland southerners,
                    trekking over the Appalachian 
                    
                  EMIGRATION
                            TOWARD
                            THE WEST (NOTE FARM IMPLEMENTS ATOP WAGON)
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg. no. C4387.
                Mountains, ferried across the Ohio River from 
                        Kentucky
                     or traveled down the river from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Others from the mid-Atlantic region used the 
                        Ohio
                     as a primary route to central and southern Indiana. The Upland South origin of Indiana
                    residents who dominated the southern portion of Indiana and, along with mid-Atlantic migrants,
                    settled central Indiana, is effectively demonstrated by Gregory S. Rose, whose work refines and
                    reinforces conclusions of earlier scholars.24 These settlers from eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     and western 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     were not slaveholders but yeoman farmers who sought better opportunities for themselves
                    in the Northwest Territory.25 Above all, they wanted more land for their crops
                    and livestock. The topography of southern Indiana had a special appeal to these individuals because
                    of its similarity to the hilly and heavily forested regions they had left behind. These woodland
                    farmers, who engaged initially in subsistence agriculture, followed the branches of the
                        Ohio, Wabash, White, and
                        Whitewater rivers in settling the southern part of the state. Their
                    influence has persisted in this region. "Southern Indiana was the most
                    distinctive," James H. Madison writes: "upland South patterns of word usage and
                    pronunciation, religion, place names, food, amusement, and methods of constructing barns, houses,
                    and corn cribs were firmly implanted in southern Indiana by 1820 and remained into the late
                    twentieth century."26
            
            The fertile lands of central Indiana, settled after the New Purchase Treaty of 1818, drew migrants
                    from the Upland South, 
                        Ohio
                    ,  and the mid-Atlantic states of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .27 Richard Lyle Power in Planting Corn Belt
                    Culture noted the blending of the corn and hog subsistence economy of the southerners with the
                    more efficient and commercially oriented farming of the easterners in this region.28 James M. Bergquist posits that this melding of upland south and mid-Atlantic work cultures
                    occurred in southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     before these settlers moved on to central Indiana. Corn and hogs formed the basis of
                    subsistence farming for upland southerners, and when they "moved into southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, corn and hogs became a dependable source of ready extra cash. In time they
                    would become the mainstay of a new market economy &." According to Bergquist, this
                    "fruitful union of Middle States commerce and upland southern agriculture would be
                    strengthened in Indiana & and would set the pattern for the future evolution of the Middle
                        West."29
            
            Many of the early settlers in southern and central Indiana were squatters, some of whom obtained
                    preemptive rights to the lands they had improved. When reforms in land policies decreased minimum
                    purchases and prices and made it possible for more individuals to become landowners, squatters then
                    either obtained clear titles or sold their improvements.30 Ultimately, the grid
                    system set out by the Ordinance of 1785 prevailed in states encompassed by the Northwest Territory
                    and in all lands to the west and "imposed a checkerboard pattern on the land, characterized
                    by straight roads with a north/south and east/west orientation, with bisecting crossroads every six
                    miles that promoted the growth of small regularly spaced farms and farming communities."31 In the newly opened regions of central Indiana, "few purchases
                    exceeded 160 acres, and many were limited to half that amount&."32 The result was a pattern of open country settlement in which open country neighborhoods
                    covered fairly large areas.33
            
            Not until the 1830s and 1840s did settlement begin in most of northern Indiana because Indians
                    remained in the area, it was initially more difficult to reach, and the prairie counties of the
                    northwest were swampy and deemed unsuitable for farming.34 Among those who had
                    settled in the northern part of the state by 1850, Rose found higher concentrations of settlers from 
                        New England
                     and fewer southerners. According to Rose, "New Yorkers traveled on the Erie
                    Canal & and New Englanders could reach the canal from land routes or by way of coastal
                    vessels and the Hudson River.35
            
            Northern Indiana is also the one region of the state where extensive land speculation occurred. Paul
                    W. Gates argued that speculators who "acquired enormous tracts of land before the actual
                    settlers appeared" drove up land prices and thus affected agricultural development and
                    settlement in this region.36 Although all public land in Indiana was gone by
                    1850, large speculative holdings in the northern portion of the state left "vast stretches
                    of the state 
                    
                  WASHING HOG CARCASSES THAT HAVE BEEN SCALDED
                            AND SCRAPED
                            AT BUTCHERING TIME
                  
                  Indiana Extension Homemakers Collection, 
                                Daviess County
                            , Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                … totally unimproved."37 Some speculators became
                    cattle raisers, but when land values increased in the 1870s, many of them divided their land into
                    smaller sections, drained it, and brought in tenants to plant corn and wheat.38
                    This northwestern region of Indiana contained the highest proportion of tenants and the largest
                    farms well into the twentieth century.39 These regional variations provide a
                    critical backdrop for the exploration of rural life in Indiana.
            Since agricultural pursuits dominated Indiana rural communities throughout the nineteenth and early
                    twentieth centuries, developments in agriculture remain essential components of the study of rural
                    life in the Hoosier state. Given variations in topography and settlement patterns, it is not
                    surprising that agricultural advancements in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries were not uniform
                    throughout Indiana and in fact reinforced earlier distinctions within the state. Examinations of
                    these differences within Indiana are essential because scholars' efforts to understand the
                    role of agriculture in the capitalist transformation of the nineteenth century and the steadily
                    decreasing proportion of Americans engaged in agriculture in the twentieth century require local
                    studies in all parts of the country as well as aggregate data on national and regional economic
                    trends. Through the accumulation of case studies, state and regional syntheses can be developed and
                    comparative studies undertaken.
            
            The broad outlines of economic transitions in agriculture include the shift from subsistence to
                    commercial agriculture, changing modes of transportation, farm mechanization, the development of
                    scientific agriculture, increased productivity, and rural outmigration. The specifics of the story
                    are much less straightforward and have led to lively debates among scholars. Acknowledging that
                    interpretations differ, Steven Hahn nonetheless concludes that the evidence "suggests that
                    farm families in a variety of geographical settings well into the nineteenth century relied upon
                    their own labor, looked to household subsistence before marketing ‘surpluses,’
                    and were reluctant to embrace improved methods of tillage and animal husbandry."40 Historian Clarence Danhof in Change in Agriculture: The Northern 
                            United States
                        , 1820–1870 comments: 
                        The test of family need in determining production did not readily give way to the view that a
                            farm was a source of net money income, with all activities subject to scrutiny from the
                            point of view of money income maximization. The latter kind of farming required that full
                            utilization be made of any advantageous factors in determining production plans, and that a
                            rationalized approach to their execution be adopted, including alertness in the appraisal
                            and application of new methods and equipment. The appearance of opportunities did not always
                            and immediately elicit a sensitivity to market considerations or the application of a
                            cost-profit calculus.41
                  
                     He notes that agriculture as a "market-focused, profit-making business was by no
                    means universally accepted even in 1850."42 Market-oriented agriculture
                    would never be adopted by all farmers, but during the second half of the nineteenth century it
                    became dominant. The problem for historians, according to Hahn, is "to analyze and
                    comprehend the dynamics of this transformation—to analyze and comprehend how farm
                    households were invaded and conquered by the logic and relations of commodity
                        production."43 Further complicating the historical study of the
                    capitalist transformation of agriculture is the inclusion of gender in the analysis. As Nancy Grey
                    Osterud points out, historians must investigate the "relationship between the gender
                    division of labor and distinctions between market-oriented and non-market-oriented
                    production"—whether women's work was "devalued relative to
                    men, through transition to capitalism"—and must examine the "ways in
                    which rural women and men conducted and thought about the relations of cooperation and exchange
                    between household."44 Since assessments of the dynamics of the
                    capitalist transformation of agriculture have yielded so many conflicting interpretations, studies
                    of various localities in Indiana will clarify diversity within the state and provide Hoosier data
                    for the debates about the complex national processes of agricultural change and capitalist
                    transformation.
            Historians often cite William C. Latta's Outline History of Indiana
                    Agriculture as the source for comments on agricultural transformation within the state. Latta
                    asserted that "by 1860, the  self-sufficing period of
                    Indiana agriculture was practically closed and the commercial period fully ushered in."45 Latta's conclusions leave little room for statewide variations and
                    contradict Danhof s and Hahn's cautious conclusions about the speed, ease, and uniformity
                    of the transition to market agriculture, but his interpretation conforms to that offered by Douglass
                    C. North in his standard The Economic Growth of the 
                            United States
                        , 1790–1860. North notes that the "shift from pioneer
                    self-sufficiency to a market oriented agriculture took place throughout most of the western
                    states" in the years from 1815 to 1860.46
            
            Indiana can serve as an interesting case study in this debate over the timing and nature of the
                    transformation of agriculture. For example, although Latta's statement implies that
                    subsistence and market agriculture were mutually exclusive modes of production, they probably
                    coexisted within many Hoosier communities. Individual farmers were unlikely to follow a linear path
                    from subsistence to market agriculture given their lack of control over environmental factors and
                    the instability of markets for their goods. Furthermore, if individual farm families were not
                    self-sufficient, varieties of community-level self-sufficiency may have persisted, especially when
                    wild price fluctuations made participation in commercial markets a sporadic economic affair for many
                    nineteenth-century farmers.47 Records of extensive trade and labor sharing
                    within neighborhoods, often on a noncash basis, appear in nineteenth-century diaries and account
                    books of Indiana farmers. Many survived because they "swoped" work like William
                    Tyner and his neighbors. How did Indiana farm families determine proportions of goods for the market
                    and for household consumption? Is there evidence of resistance to change in these Indiana
                    communities? What forms did resistance take? What factors were most influential in pushing farmers
                    to enter the market economy? Topographical differences in farming regions must not be the only
                    factors considered in assessing variations between rural communities. How important were such
                    factors as commodities grown, accessibility of markets, socio-economic status, educational level,
                    and ethnicity in families' shifts to commercial agriculture? How did Indiana farmers
                    conceptualize "the market"—in regional, national, or international
                    terms—and how did their conceptualizations change over time?
            Historians will undoubtedly find differences between farm families within rural neighborhoods as well
                    as variations based on socioeconomic distinctions within counties, but despite this localized
                    diversity patterns characteristic of the major regions of the state should emerge. For example, less
                    productive farms in southern Indiana persisted in various permutations of subsistence agriculture
                    well into the twentieth century.48 On the other hand there is little evidence to
                    suggest that self-sufficiency existed at all in portions of northern Indiana as a result of the
                    later settlement dates, 
                    
                  FARM RESIDENCE
                            OF WILLIAM PINNEY AS IT APPEARED
                            IN
                            A LA PORTE COUNTY ATLAS
                            OF 1874
                  "In the field behind the house, four horses push a side-delivery hay rake, while an
                            adjacent wagon pulled by two other horses receives the newly cut hay."
                  
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     scale of farming operations, high rates of tenancy, and
                    concentration on cash crops.49
            
            Changing modes of transportation affected rural development and intensified regional differences
                    because the benefits of improved methods of transportation were not distributed equally throughout
                    the state. Developments in transportation during the nineteenth century, in addition to less fertile
                    soil and hilly terrain that inhibited mechanization, combined to make agriculture in southern
                    Indiana less prosperous than in northern or central Indiana. Hoosier farmers initially relied on
                    rivers for transporting their products south to the 
                        Ohio
                     and then down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     and from there to eastern markets. The National Road crossed Indiana by the late 1830s,
                    and by the end of the 1840s the first rail tracks had been laid in the state. In the succeeding
                    decades a rail network within the state connected many Hoosier farmers with regional and national
                    markets for their goods. Since the National Road ran through central Indiana and the rail network
                    largely bypassed southern Indiana, farmers in this area continued to rely on "slower, less
                    versatile waterways for transport."50 Studies of rural life in Indiana
                    might profitably compare townships with different degrees of access to transportation networks.51 To what extent did improved transportation affect the production mix on
                    Indiana farms? Without access to markets were some families and communities forced to remain more
                    self-sufficient as a means of economic survival? What kinds of efforts did communities undertake to
                    secure transportation improvements in the nineteenth century? How did success or failure in these
                    endeavors affect farm families in the open country and village residents? It is also vital that
                    historians assess the effects of transportation developments on rural life in the twentieth century.
                    Studies of rural life should explore the changes brought by the automobile to open country
                    neighborhoods and rural communities. The impact of motorized vehicles on the marketing of farm
                    products and the increased accessibility of off-farm employment are only two of many issues to
                    consider.
            Technological advances in farm and farmhouse equipment have had repercussions on Indiana agriculture
                    and rural life that correspond in magnitude to those involving transportation. The Civil War spurred
                    railroad building in Indiana and "accentuated the trend toward mechanization by bringing
                    about both an increased demand for farm products and a shortage of man power." Although
                    "pioneer methods of planting and cultivation and harvesting were still generally
                    prevalent" throughout the Hooser state at midcentu-ry, the following decades witnessed an
                    extraordinary expansion in agricultural mechanization.52 Historians John D.
                    Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony noted that prior to 1860 Indiana farmers "used only a few
                    simple, crude implements which were pulled by horses  and
                    oxen—such as plows, carts, sleds, and harrows—and relied principally upon the
                    labor of men and boys with axes, hoes, forks, spades, and other tools."53 By the 1860s some farmers were using iron plows, reapers, mowers, wheat drills,
                    cultivators, corn planters, and threshers.54 Indiana farmers'
                    investments in farm machinery more than quadrupled from 1850 to the turn of the century, and this
                    mechanization made possible the cultivation of three times as much land in 1900 as in 1850.55
            
            Although such figures are impressive, they reveal little about differences between regions of the
                    state or the ways in which individual farmers, families, and communities were affected by new
                    technologies. The uneven diffusion of agricultural technology accentuated differences within the
                    state and also created new distinctions within communities. Not surprisingly, new farm technologies
                    had least impact in southern Indiana, where topography made the adoption of new methods more
                    difficult. Technological advancements, regardless of attitudes or economic constraints, were simply
                    "unsuitable for use in the hillier regions" of southern Indiana.56 During the first half of the twentieth century when gasoline-powered tractors and combines
                    brought further changes in Indiana agriculture, disparities in the diffusion of new agricultural
                    technology and regional variations in agricultural productivity and prosperity 
                  HAYING, C. 1928–1929
                  Reproduced from Eighteenth Annual Report of Purdue University Department of
                                Agricultural Extension, July 1, 1928 to June 30, 1929 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1929), 3.
               
                    
                    
                  MC SHERRY IMPROVED GRAIN DRILL EXHIBITED
                            AT
                            THE 1868 INDIANA STATE FAIR SPONSORED
                            BY
                            THE STATE BOARD
                            OF AGRICULTURE
                  
               
                    
                  SOD PLOW EXHIBITED
                            BY J. GEORGE STILZ, INDIANAPOLIS, AT
                            THE 1868 INDIANA STATE FAIR SPONSORED
                            BY
                            THE STATE BOARD
                            OF AGRICULTURE
                  
                  Reproduced from Indiana State Board of Agriculture, Tenth Annual Report
                            (1868) 9, 135.
               
                     continued to be evident. The increased costliness of
                    agricultural machinery in the twentieth century heightened distinctions between regions, with
                    southern Indiana continuing to lag behind the rest of the state. The cost and scale of machinery
                    also widened the economic gap between farmers within the same communities. Small and medium-sized
                    farms, not only in southern Indiana but throughout the state, had insufficient output to generate
                    the capital necessary to purchase new equipment.57
            
            This brief overview of agricultural mechanization raises many questions about rural life in Indiana
                    from 1850 to the mid-twentieth century. Is it possible to isolate characteristics of those farmers
                    who were the first to experiment with new technologies? Who were the modernizers or innovators and
                    who were the traditionalists? What kinds of risks were the innovators assuming? Were they among the
                    wealthiest in their communities? Were landowners with several tenants more or less likely to
                    mechanize with their available labor source? How were the work lives and routines of farmers changed
                    by new farm technologies? What kinds of factors did families weigh in decisions to invest in farm
                    machinery? How did differences in rates of technological diffusion contribute to economic
                    disparities between regions and differences in rural lifestyles?
            J. Sanford Rikoon demonstrates the cultural impact of new technologies in Threshing in
                        the Midwest. His study of the evolution and decline of threshing rings in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     in 
                  THRESHING, AUGUST 6, 1912
                  Bass Photo Co. Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg. no. 29670.
               
                     the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries is a model
                    assessment of the intersection of technological change and rural work cultures. He analyzes the
                    effects of technological transformation on both the men who threshed the wheat and the women who
                    prepared their meals. By revealing how crucial it is to consider the impact of new machinery and
                    processes on work cultures and gender roles, this important work suggests the limitations of studies
                    that look only at the economic implications of technological changes in farming.58
            
            Any examination of rural life, particularly in the twentieth century, should explore the impact of
                    domestic technological change on rural farm and nonfarm families.59 During the
                    first decades of the twentieth century rural Hoosiers, like their counterparts in other states,
                    lagged far behind town and city residents in acquiring household improvements. Automobiles, which,
                    as previously noted, had an enormous impact on rural life, made access to town easier and at the
                    same time made differences in lifestyles more apparent.60 Electricity and indoor
                    plumbing had transformed urban middle-class homes, but even many of the more prosperous rural
                    families remained without these amenities well into the twentieth century.61 By
                    1940 just over half of all farm families in Indiana had electricity compared with 98 percent of the
                    urban homes.62 Rural telephone service in Indiana actually got worse during the
                    1930s and 1940s as lines and poles decayed and were not replaced.63 Post-World
                    War II prosperity, increased expenditures under the Rural Electrification Administration, and
                    improved roads narrowed the technological gap between rural and urban residents; but many questions
                    can be raised about the uneven diffusion of household technology prior to this time. Did the
                    acquisition of new technologies affect the quality of life in rural Indiana? Was the decrease in
                    physically burdensome chores offset by new tasks and higher expectations? What kinds of choices were
                    made by families in determining when and which new technologies to purchase for their farms and
                    homes?
            Many changes in farming practices and rural life in nineteenth-and twentieth-century Indiana can also
                    be linked to the explosion of agricultural information and organizations and to policies and
                    initiatives undertaken by the federal government and Purdue University. Organizational and
                    institutional histories, as well as evaluations of governmental policies and their repercussions in
                    Indiana, represent additional research areas that are relevant to understanding rural life in the
                    Hoosier state. In the last half of the nineteenth century, information on crops, livestock care and
                    breeding, and farming methods proliferated. This data appeared in newspapers and general farm
                    periodicals and in the publications of the State Board of Agriculture, farm organizations, and the
                    School of Agriculture at Purdue University.64 The State Board of Agriculture,
                         created by the legislature in 1851, held the first state
                    fair in 1852. County agricultural societies, which reported to the state board and organized county
                    fairs, were also established by the legislature. State and county fairs offered recreation and
                    information with exhibits of livestock, agricultural products, and the latest farm machinery.65 In addition to countless specialized agricultural groups such as the Indiana
                    Corn Growers Association, the Indiana Live Stock Breeders' Association, and the Indiana
                    State Dairy Association, farmers also formed fraternal organizations, the most important of which
                    was the Grange or the Patrons of Husbandry. First organized in Indiana in 1869, the Grange had its
                    highest membership of over sixty thousand in the mid-1870s. The organization promoted social and
                    educational activities and cooperative buying of farm equipment.66 The first
                    Indiana "farm bureaus" appeared in communities in 1912; by 1919 these and a
                    variety of "Better Farming Associations" had created the Indiana Farm Bureau to
                    protect and promote the interests of farmers.67 The Indiana Farm Bureau
                    ultimately became the most important agricultural organization in Indiana and at various times has
                    had considerable political influence.68
            
            The Purdue University School of Agriculture (which first enrolled students in 1879) and its
                    Agricultural Experiment Station 
                  WELL
                            INTO
                            THE TWENTIETH CENTURY WOMEN OFTEN HAD
                            TO CARRY WATER
                            FOR HOUSEHOLD USE
                            FROM OUTSIDE PUMPS.
                  Reproduced from H. L. Hawley, "Small Agricultural Holdings in Two Industrial Areas
                            in Indiana" (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station
                                Bulletin, No. 460; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., May, 1941), 5.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 2. Grasp the appliance cord by the plug when connecting or disconnecting it from the
                            outlet. This light weight automatic iron maintains the proper ironing temperature for any
                            fabric.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 3. A porcelain enamel washer is easily kept clean and the large soft rubber wringer
                            adequately removes the water from the clothes.
                  Reproduced from Gail M. Redfield, "Selection, Operation, and bare of Electric
                            Household Equipment" (Purdue University Cooperative Extension
                            Bulletin, No. 215; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., March, 1937), 3–4, 5.
               
                     was undoubtedly the most prolific source of information on
                    scientific agriculture for Indiana farmers. The station performed agricultural research and
                    disseminated the results of research on such topics as rates of seed germination, methods of
                    preventing oat smut, and swine fertility, as well as undertaking social scientific investigations on
                    numerous aspects of rural life.69 Purdue and the State Board of Agriculture
                    undertook other outreach activities, including Farmers' Institutes and agricultural
                        trains.70 Ultimately, Purdue's most effective method of reaching
                    farmers was the county agent system. Four counties already had agents when in 1913 the Indiana
                    General Assembly passed legislation that provided support for agents from state and local taxes and
                    placed the program under the direction of Purdue.71
            
            The following year, the Smith-Lever Act authorized federal funding for agricultural extension work in
                    connection with the land grant schools of agriculture "in order to aid in diffusing among
                    the people of the 
                        United States
                     useful and practical information on subjects relating to agriculture and home
                        economics."72 The Smith-Lever Act and the attention directed at
                    agriculture and rural life in the early twentieth century were in part manifestations of the Country
                    Life Movement, a coalescence of broad-ranging interests within the mainstream of progressive reform
                    that focused on the problems of rural life.73 Much of the impetus for the
                    movement came from urban interests worried about the number of people leaving the countryside and
                    concerned about the maintenance of an abundant and cheap food supply. Some rural residents found
                    much of the Country Life Movement's critique of their lives offensive and condescending.74 Whatever the motivation and reception, Smith-Lever funds expanded extension
                    work in Indiana and throughout the nation.75
            
            The county agents, mainly graduates of Purdue, had broad mandates that included cooperating with
                    various farmers' and youth groups, conducting demonstrations, advising farmers, and
                    promoting agriculture and home economics education. During the 1930s county agents were given
                    additional responsibilities for explaining New Deal programs to farmers.76
                    Federal monies provided by the Smith-Lever Act also made possible the employment of county home
                    economics agents, but their numbers lagged far behind those of the county agents. In many counties,
                    in fact, the regular agents handled the home economics work. Even without demonstration agents women
                    in counties throughout the state formed their own "home ec" clubs as forums to
                    receive lessons in homemaking and to promote friendship.77 Regional variations,
                    however, must again be considered in assessing the impact of the county agents and home
                    demonstration agents. Proportionately fewer of the poorer counties in southern Indiana secured
                    agents in the first years of funding.78
            
            
            
               ELEVEN MEMBERS
                        AND NINETEEN CHILDREN ATTENDED THIS HOME ECONOMICS
                            CLUB MEETING.
               Indiana Extension Homemakers Collection, 
                            Spencer County
                        , Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            As with all "advice" literature, caution must be used in determining the actual
                    influence of all the exhortations directed at rural residents. Whether they wrote in popular
                    agricultural journals or in mimeographed demonstration lessons, various "experts"
                    propounding certain agricultural methods or homemaking techniques furnish historians with
                    information on their goals and expectations, not on actual farming and housekeeping procedures.
                    Simply having access to the information does not mean that rural Hoosiers put it into practice. Many
                    Hoosier farmers were not just skeptical about but hostile to "book" farming. To
                    what extent are regional distinctions apparent in the successes and failures of the various
                    "experts" and their programs? Which farm men and women within communities were
                    most receptive and which were most hostile to suggestions in different publications and to the
                    extension agents and their messages about new methods in agriculture and home-making? Are class,
                    ethnic, and racial differences apparent in reactions to new methods and organizations? Is there
                    evidence of community consensus in reactions to experts?
            As some of the previous questions indicate, the concept of "community" is one that
                    must be clarified in any local study. Historians and sociologists have developed several useful
                    models for exploring  the meaning of
                        "cornmunity."79 Two interesting constructs are
                    Faragher's conclusion that dispersed open-country settlements "demonstrated
                    communal patterns usually attributed to nucleated villages alone" and the early rural
                    sociologist Dwight Sanderson's definition of community as the "corporate state of
                    mind of those living in a local area, giving rise to their collective behavior. There cannot be a
                    true community unless people think and act together."80
                    Faragher's and Sanderson's models suggest a number of questions about rural
                    Indiana communities. What were the physical boundaries of community observed in the open country?
                    What role did networks of kin play in the creation and duration of communities? Is there evidence of
                    exclusivity in deciding who "belonged" in the community? Determining patterns of
                    social visiting and reciprocity in the sharing of materials and labor is another important factor in
                    the historical reconstruction of rural communities.81
            
            The creation and evolution of local political, religious, and educational institutions provide
                    insight into community values in rural Indiana. Analysis of the qualifications for political
                    participation, voting patterns, and local political leaders will also clarify both the nature of
                    community values and the role of persistent families in rural communities. Kenneth J.
                    Winkle's impressive study of antebellum pollbooks in 
                        Ohio
                     revealed that a majority of voters cast their ballots only once or twice in an area
                    before moving on but that a "core community" of between 5 to 10 percent
                    participated in several elections. According to Winkle, these individuals "represented a
                    persistent political and economic elite" and "used their persistence to win
                    exaggerated influence both at the ballot box and in political office."82 It would be interesting to determine whether or not persistent families in Indiana
                    communities exercised the same disproportionate degree of influence in politics and over the
                    formation and operation of community institutions as those in Winkle's 
                        Ohio
                     study. Questions about how rural Hoosiers perceived politics and the nature of their
                    political participation should be incorporated into any local study.
            Social historians in general have not paid enough attention to religion, a fact that is also true for
                    the new rural history. Records of rural churches contain an abundance of information on community
                    values and networks of relationships.83 They also provide information on lay
                    leaders and conflicts within congregations. Early twentieth century rural surveys undertaken by
                    national churches lamented the decline in rural church membership and the intense competition that
                    existed between different congregations within very small population areas. James H.
                    Madison's study of rural church reform efforts from 1900 to 1950 establishes that while
                    reformers considered over-churching because of denominational rivalries the most serious obstacle to
                    reform, these individuals "did not show an understanding of the rural congregation itself
                    as a 
                    
                  ORANGEVILLE METHODIST CHURCH BAPTISMAL SERVICE, ORANGE COUNTY, INDIANA, C. 1890s
                  DePauw University Archives and Special Collections, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana.
               
                     community—a religious community of believers and a
                    social community of friends, family, and neighbors, extending across time."84 In Indiana the Methodists were the most successful denomination on a statewide basis,
                    but as 
                        Madison
                    's study suggests, many questions remain about the role of religious
                    institutions within particular communities.85 What factors within a community
                    account for the success of a particular church? Was this success related to doctrine, the role of
                    early circuit riders and later ministers, revivals, social and economic distinctions, or ethnicity?
                    What roles did women play in the religious lives of their communities? Examining religious
                    activities in rural Indiana will enhance historical understanding of changing patterns of rural
                    behavior and values.
            Explorations of the origins of rural schools in the nineteenth century and their development over
                    time are essential in understanding rural life. When were schools initially created and how long
                    were their sessions? What kinds of conflicts evolved over the funding and operation of rural schools
                    in different communities? To what extent did the school term conform to the dictates of farm labor?
                    What choices did families make in sending their children to school or keeping them home to work on
                    the farm? Were decisions influenced by the gender of children, and did fathers and mothers differ in
                    the values they attached to education?86 What role did teachers play in the
                    community, and what was their status? When did compulsory school attendance laws actually have an
                    effect on rural communities in Indiana?87 Any examination of rural education in
                    Indiana will have to come to terms with the debates over control of local schools, the evolution of
                    the township system, and the role of township trustees.88
            
            School consolidation is an issue of critical importance in the rural Midwest in the twentieth century
                    because it has meant that countless rural communities have faced mergers with historic rivals and
                    losses of local school identities. During the 1920s the John D. Rockefeller-funded General Education
                    Board launched projects in 
                        LaGrange
                     and 
                        Johnson
                     counties in Indiana to demonstrate the advantages of consolidated schools financed and
                    professionally run at the county rather than the township or district level. James H.
                    Madison's study of these efforts demonstrates the degree of rural opposition to loss of
                    local control. Despite the fact that the project directors concluded that consolidation was more
                    economical and efficient, township trustees offered strong opposition. 
                        Madison
                     explains, "These local institutions traditionally belonged immediately and
                    fully to the people in an organic and even personal way. The township trustee was the local
                    government, and he was in fact the trustee of the schools, holding them in trust for the people who
                    elected him." Trustee opposition, 
                        Madison
                     asserts, was not simply "narrow-minded stubbornness" and
                    "self-interest"; it reflected the local determination that "strangers
                    would not run their schools."  As 
                        Madison
                     concludes, "Only gradually and in piecemeal fashion did local communities in
                    Indiana and the Midwest painfully and often inexpertly consolidate their schools. Not yet do
                    Johnson, LaGrange, and most of Indiana's other ninety-two counties have county-wide school
                    corporations, and not yet have the differences reflected in the debates of the 1920s been fully
                        resolved."89
            
            Although the impact of school consolidation is undoubtedly one of the most important issues to
                    consider in examining changes in rural life in the twentieth century, several other broad themes in
                    twentieth-century history also had enormous repercussions on the lives of rural Hoosiers. Studies of
                    rural life in twentieth-century Indiana must assess the impacts of World War I and World War 11, the
                    Great Depression, and various policies of the federal government directed at the agricultural
                    sector. Statistics indicate that Hoosier farmers, like their counterparts in other midwestern
                    states, expanded production and experienced sharply rising prices during World War I but suffered
                    through lower prices in the 1920s. The early 1930s witnessed another sharp drop in prices for farm
                    produce and also saw a decrease in job opportunities off the farm. One particularly interesting
                    Depression-era phenomenon in Indiana was the "Back-to-the-Land Movement in which rural
                    migrants to towns and cities returned to their rural counties in an effort to 
                  DISCUSSING
                            THE 1930 FARM BUSINESS SUMMARY
                  
                  Reproduced from Twentieth Annual Report of Purdue University Department of
                                Agricultural Extension, July 1, 1930 to June 30, 1931 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1931), 51.
               
                     live off the land. Since many of these individuals returned to
                    economically depressed rural areas in southern Indiana, they exacerbated the already difficult
                    conditions in these counties.90 The implementation of the New Deal Agricultural
                    Adjustment Act (AAA), which sought to deal with overproduction by paying farmers to cut back
                    production of certain staple crops, did little for landless and small farmers, especially in
                    southern Indiana. Reflecting the continued domination of corn and hogs in Indiana, a comparable
                    proportion of subsidies in Indiana was paid to producers in these two areas, and as in other states,
                    the largest producers were the primary beneficiaries. Consideration of local case studies will aid
                    historians' understanding of the effects of the New Deal on rural life, not only in terms
                    of the AAA but in connection with jobs provided for rural residents through the Civilian
                    Conservation Corps and the Works Progress Administration. Certainly the Rural Electrification
                    Administration had an extraordinary impact on rural life in Indiana during the 1930s and 1940s.
                    World War II had contradictory outcomes for rural Hoosiers. It promoted agricultural recovery
                    through the increased demand for agricultural products and workers; but more importantly, through
                    the creation of new jobs in war-related industries, it made more off-farm employment available for
                    rural Hoosiers and ultimately speeded the exodus from Hoosier farms. Perhaps the most important
                    theme of the past forty years has been the steadily decreasing proportion of the Indiana population
                    on farms and in rural areas, a trend that began in the mid-nineteenth century.
            As early as 1850 rural Indiana had become more important as a source than as a destination for
                    migrants. This was particularly true for the oldest settled region of the state, southern Indiana.
                    Mid-nineteenth-century outmigration involved individuals seeking what they perceived as better
                    agricultural opportunities further west, but increasingly, rural outmigration in Indiana, and other
                    states, reflected improved agricultural efficiency during the second half of the nineteenth
                        century.91 In Indiana 52.2 percent of the workforce was engaged in
                    agriculture in 1880; in 1900, 38.1 percent; and by 1920, 26.3 percent.92 The
                    dominant trend, particularly in the twentieth century, has been toward fewer but larger farms.93 These changes are mirrored in other population figures. In 1850 only 4.5
                    percent of the Indiana population was urban (defined as living in a city over 2,500); in 1880 the
                    figure was still below 20 percent; but by 1950 almost 60 percent of the population was so
                        designated.94 Not only had the urban population grown from one-fifth to
                    three-fifths in the seventy years from 1880 to 1950 but the nonfarm rural population had also grown
                    larger than the farm population. In addition, increasing numbers of families that continued to farm,
                    particularly those with smaller farms, supplemented their farm incomes with off-farm employment, by
                    women as well as men. By  1950 the total nonfarm rural
                    population was 909,874, and the total farm population was 667, 154.95 In the
                    next forty years the farm population fell to 188,133, and the nonfarm rural population rose to
                    1,760,009. By 1990 only 9.66 percent of rural Hoosiers lived on farms, which represented a scant
                    3.39 percent of the total population.96 The repercussions for rural communities
                    of the population shifts away from farming and away from rural areas in both the nineteenth and
                    twentieth centuries require careful historical investigation.97 Economists,
                    sociologists, and anthropologists have undertaken most of the research on the continuing exodus from
                    farming and the economic strategies employed by farm families, but historians examining social and
                    economic processes over time have much to add to an interdisciplinary dialogue about agrarian-ism,
                    farming, and rural life in the late twentieth century.98
            
            Finally, as several earlier questions and comments have indicated, explorations of rural life and
                    agricultural developments in Indiana during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries should include
                    the variables of race, ethnicity, and gender.99 In 1850 less than 6 percent of
                    the state's population was foreign-born, and blacks made up only 1.14 percent of the total
                    population. By 1900 5.6 percent of the state's population was foreign-born, and blacks
                    accounted for 2.29 percent of the population. In 1920 blacks still accounted for only 3 percent of
                    the population, and the percentage of foreign-born had dropped to 5. Indiana was the "least
                    ethnically diverse" state in the Old Northwest.100 Within Indiana in
                    the nineteenth century both blacks and foreign-born were more likely to be urban than rural
                    residents, a pattern that persisted throughout the twentieth century.101
                    Immigrants and blacks, although obviously not a large proportion of the rural Indiana population,
                    nonetheless merit attention because they lived and raised families in rural areas, worked as farmers
                    and farm laborers, and settled in clusters in some rural communities.102
            
            Kathleen Neils Conzen points out that immigrant experiences have not received much attention in rural
                    sociology and agricultural history. She reminds those writing the new rural history that
                    "the lively debate & over agrarian complicity in capitalist transformation
                    & cannot be fully resolved until the immigrant farmer is taken into account."
                    Conzen asks if Old World customs survived and influenced lifestyles and farming methods and further
                    notes that if "immigrant values could shape a distinctive rural way of life, the same
                    freedom must have existed for their native-born counterparts."103
                    Studies of rural Indiana might thus explore the connections between race and ethnicity and
                    differences and similarities with natives in farming methods, investment strategies, and retention
                    of land within families.104 As conflicting interpretations of the Ku Klux Klan
                    indicate, the attitudes of the white, Protestant, native-born, rural Hoosiers toward racial and
                    ethnic minorities also  need to be better understood.105 Certainly race and ethnicity must be factored into any analysis of rural
                    women.
            Historical research on rural women, although still predominantly on white European-American women,
                    challenges the applicability of the urban-based paradigm of separate spheres for understanding the
                    historical experiences of women who were part of family-based agricultural production units in the
                    nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.106 It also calls into question
                    explanations of the development of market-oriented agriculture that are oblivious to gender
                    differences in farm families' adaptations to commercial agriculture. Recent scholarship on
                    rural women has revealed interesting variations in work patterns.107 This
                    research suggests that on wheat- and corn-producing farms on the prairies and Great Plains, work was
                    clearly gender-defined, and women had at best marginal roles in connection with the commercial
                    crops; but on dairy farms in the East and upper Midwest, scholars have found that there was more
                    work sharing and that women had critical roles in the farming operation.108
                    Since it seems possible that both patterns existed in Indiana, it is worth summarizing some of the
                    most important conclusions of this research.
            Faragher, who carefully delineates women's tasks on the 
                        Illinois
                     prairies around Sugar Creek, emphasizes their extraordinarily heavy work loads and the
                    essential nature of their role within the family. He documents some important changes in
                    women's lives, including declines in fertility and amount of household manufacturing from
                    the 1830s to the 1860s, but his conclusions are grim; in patriarchal Sugar Creek women were unequal
                    and largely excluded from the community: 
                        Farmers found themselves better able than their wives to break free from the responsibilities
                            of farm work to participate in the larger social world—participation that could
                            take place because their women labored at home with children, cows, and chickens. Men could
                            pursue the work of the public world precisely because the inequitable division of labor at
                            home made them beneficiaries of women's and children's labor. The farming
                            household exploited women as wives, and this constituted a central dynamic of the social
                                system.109
                  
                    
            
            Researchers on dairy operations in both the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, while acknowledging
                    that the farm with its "patriarchal legal restrictions, offered women little ultimate
                    control over their wealth, property, or even their labor," have reached more positive
                    conclusions about the experiences of rural women. Joan Jensen, in Loosening the Bonds:
                        Mid-Atlantic Farm Women, 1750–1850, describes the personal satisfaction and
                    societal esteem women derived from the development of the women-centered butter-making industry in
                    the Brandywine Valley of southeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and northern 
                        Delaware
                    . "They preserved, almost intact, a self-sufficient household economy that
                    provided a firm foundation for the market production of the farms," she notes.
                    "They provided  most of the uninstitutionalized welfare
                    for the rural population and organized their own labor into efficient farm units, both as managers
                    and as a work force." Jensen observes that "most countrywomen found satisfaction
                    and comfort in their rural lives" and concluded that they had "loosened the bonds
                    of the traditional rural family in small but significant ways; it was reduced in size, less subject
                    to male control, and modified by female experimentation and productivity."110 Nancy Grey Osterud's study of nineteenth-century rural women in the
                        Nanticoke Valley of 
                        New York
                     is even more explicit in challenging the patriarchal oppression and inequality of farm
                    women. Again recognizing that "inequality was still deeply embedded in women's and
                    men's relationships to the land," Osterud nonetheless asserts that the lives of
                    her rural women "directly contradicted the prescriptions of separate spheres" and
                    represented a rejection of "the terms of the dominant ideology." Their involvement
                    in dairying and the centrality of this work to the economy "ensured that at least this form
                    of women's work was recognized and valued by men." Osterud believes that the
                    mutual work of men and women on the farm and the importance of the kinship network "helped
                    to mitigate the hierarchical nature of property and authority relations between men and
                    women." Women expanded "existing areas of commonality" and constructed
                    "new modes of sharing between women and men. In struggling to improve their own lives women
                    enhanced the quality of life for men as well."111
            
            Similarly, Mary Neth in her work on rural women in early twentieth-century 
                        Wisconsin
                     dairy farming concludes that the exchange and trade of the products of women's
                    labor was "central to building the consistent patterns of resource and labor sharing within
                    rural neighborhoods." Like Osterud, Neth reiterates the importance of kinship ties in rural
                    communities. "Rather than being sharply defined by a separate sphere of gender,
                    women's identity encompassed their roles as women, as family members, and as friends and
                    neighbors in the rural community. While women's work was sometimes gender-defined, it was
                    not segregated from the work of the family or the community & While gender did shape the
                    lives of women, it was only one of their points of reference."112
                    Although land ownership conformed to patriarchal dictates, several of these studies suggest
                    significant "cracks in the mold" in other areas. Further research on rural areas
                    throughout the country will be necessary to test these conclusions about gender roles on different
                    farming operations and to ascertain other patterns that reflect not only geographic regions and
                    types of farms but also class, race, and ethnicity.
            Rural women in Indiana offer myriad possibilities for historical research. In addition to exploring
                    the nature of their household labor, studies of rural women in Indiana must determine which kinds of
                    farm labor were undertaken by women and the role of gender  in
                    the assignment of farm work roles. To what extent did social class determine women's farm
                    chores? Were some chores clearly gendered and others gender neutral? If women worked in the fields
                    was this labor acknowledged and valued within the family and community? How was women's
                    farm labor altered by technological changes in farming methods and equipment?
            Rural women in early-twentieth-century Indiana engaged in a wide variety of income-producing
                    activities on family farms: among other tasks they grew truck gardens, raised chickens, and made
                    butter. How essential was this work to their families' economic survival, and was it
                    recognized by their families? What were the varieties and specific characteristics of
                    women's income-producing work on farms, and how did these change over time? How extensive
                    was noncash trading within the community? What was the nature of women's trade with town
                    merchants and traveling hucksters? Was any of it on a noncash basis? Were women engaged in direct
                    marketing of their products to their own customers in town? What was the significance of
                    women's participation in trading and selling in the local economy? What factors were most
                    significant in the decline of women's farm-based income-producing activities? Indiana
                    women's paid employment off the farm has steadily 
                  WOMEN OFTEN HELPED
                            WITH FIELD WORK
                            ON
                            THE FARM, ESPECIALLY
                            IN PLANTING
                            AND HARVEST TIMES.
                  Indiana Extension Homemakers Collection, Hendricks County, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     increased in the twentieth century. What factors were most
                    influential in leading women to seek wages off the farm? What impact did technological changes in
                    farming, housework, transportation, and in off-farm job opportunities have on decisions to work for
                    wages off the farm? To what extent is paid employment related to rural women's racial,
                    ethnic, and class backgrounds? Explorations of rural life, particularly in the twentieth century,
                    must also include rural women and men who were not engaged in agricultural pursuits at all.
            Preliminary research on rural women in early-twentieth-century Indiana based primarily on the massive
                    oral history project of the Indiana Extension Homemakers Association suggests some tentative
                    conclusions regarding these questions and links Hoosier women to recent historiography on agrarian
                    women generally. Although women's work was often distinguished from male tasks on Indiana
                    farms, there were many exceptions when women joined men in farm labor, especially in dairy
                    operations and on smaller holdings.113 Furthermore, women's gendered
                    work was not cut off from the family's work or from gender-integrated communities of kin,
                    neighbors, and friends. Women were pivotal, in fact central, players in nurturing and maintaining
                    the personal social and economic links that bound rural Hoosiers in their interdependent communities
                    in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It was, for example, the products of
                    women's labor, not the market crops, that were exchanged within the neighborhood or rural
                    community in the early decades of the twentieth century. Rural Hoosier women maintained the family
                    gardens and had responsibility for the processing and distribution of the produce. They traded fresh
                    produce and canned goods with kin and neighbors, exchanges that enhanced the diversity of their
                    diets and strengthened ties of community mutuality. It is also evident that through their dealings
                    with local hucksters and store owners many early-twentieth-century Hoosier women were active
                    participants in the local economy and made significant contributions to their families'
                        incomes.114 Trading with neighbors and relatives was based on trust and
                    reciprocity, but women's dealings with hucksters and town merchants involved exact
                    accounting on both sides.115
            
            From this evidence in the oral histories it appears that Neth's conclusions for
                    early-twentieth-century 
                        Wisconsin
                     are echoed in several Indiana communities for the same period: the products of
                    women's labor formed the nucleus of local trade, women were the primary nurturers of
                    community bonds, and they were not consigned to a distinct gendered world. Yet it is also likely
                    that historical research on some nineteenth- and twentieth-century rural communities and on the
                    large wheat-growing farms in northern Indiana may well reveal patterns similar to those observed by
                    Faragher in Sugar Creek, 
                        Illinois
                    , and Deborah Fink on the 
                    
                        Nebraska
                     plains. The regional variations within Indiana and the distinctive farming regions
                    highlighted in the early twentieth century afford scholars voluminous research possibilities. The
                    most valuable of this research will tie the experiences of rural Indiana women in their homes and
                    communities to the large-scale economic, social, and political processes that shaped the history of
                    the entire nation.
            William Tyner, fretting about his delayed harvest and about whether or not he would be able to market
                    his crops, was himself an actor in the capitalist transformation of the 
                        United States
                     in the nineteenth century. New rural historians have uncovered different patterns of
                    adaptation, resistance, and change in nineteenth-century rural communities across the country, but
                    regardless of the form, time, or region, the countryside was affected by this transformation and was
                    an integral part of it. Similarly, rural Hoosier homemakers who left their farmhouses to drive to
                    paid employment were players in the vast economic, social, and technological changes in post-World
                    War II American society. Many elderly Hoosiers interviewed for the IEHA oral history project noted
                    this expansion of the paid female work force. "Very few women worked outside the
                    home," an 
                        Elkhart County
                     woman asserted. "The kitchen was their throne room, but today they have their
                    own life and work outside the home. I can't say it is a bad thing, but that is a
                    significant change."116 The same challenge awaits scholars who
                    undertake studies as different as a reconstruction of life in rural 
                        Decatur County
                     in William Tyner's day and an analysis of the decline of home egg production
                    and the increase in off-farm work for women in central Indiana in the years after World War 11: the
                    necessity of linking the histories of individuals, families, and communities to the transformative
                    economic, social, and political processes that affected the entire nation in the nineteenth and
                    twentieth centuries.
            By making these connections, historians just might be able to explain why the old ways of rural
                    Hoosier Alvah Watson's youth are gone. Watson's lament, recorded in the early
                    1980s for the IEHA oral history project, captures what may be the essence of the lingering appeal of
                    traditional rural life: 
                        I just wonder—we live life so fast now. It is just like a big game of whip
                            cracker. You're on the tail end and you're traveling so fast that you
                            can't hardly hold on and you're afraid to let go.
                        I do wish sometimes that we could just stop this fast-moving world long enough to say,
                            "Good morning," or "How are you?" or "Is there
                            anything I can do to help you?"117
                  
                    
            
            
            
               Endnotes
               
                  1 William P. and Margaret Tyner to John and Nancy Merrick, December 3,
                        1855, William P. Tyner Papers (Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana).
               
                        
                     2 Weather featured prominently in letters and diaries of
                            nineteenth-century Indiana farmers. Several diarists noted the weather before any other
                            matters and sometimes recorded only the weather in their diaries or journals. For examples
                            see J. Edgar Scholl Diary, 1900–1901; Henry Baker Diaries, 1875–1911;
                            Thomas B. Faucett Diaries, 1873–1881; William R. Hackelman Diaries,
                            1821–1862; and Aggie F. Lafuse Diaries, 1860–1879, all at the Indiana
                            Historical Society.
                        Illness is often discussed in these documents. In addition to the Tyner Collection see the
                            Jacob Weaver Collection, 1814–1824, and John M. Killian Diaries,
                            1900–1904, Indiana Historical Society. Interviews from the Indiana Extension
                            Homemakers Association (IEHA) Oral History Project contain abundant evidence of sickness,
                            home remedies, and the lack of medical care in rural communities in the late nineteenth and
                            early twentieth centuries. Typescripts of the interviews are deposited at the Indiana
                            Historical Society. Published excerpts from interviews on this topic are contained primarily
                            in Eleanor Arnold, ed., Girlhood Days (Memories of Hoosier
                                Homemakers, Vol. IV [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987]).
                        Patterns of work sharing and wages paid to neighboring farmers and youths are evident in
                            account books, diaries, and the IEHA oral histories. See Eleanor Arnold, ed., Feeding Our Families (Memories of Hoosier Homemaker, Vol. I; [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1983]). Two examples from the collections of the Indiana Historical Society
                            are the Thomas Beeson Papers, 1849–1902, and John Lloyd Diaries,
                            1867–1876. As a young man Beeson farmed some land with his brother but spent much
                            of his time working for wages around the neighborhood. Lloyd often hired nearby youths to
                            help in his farming operation, but he also worked for wages himself and traded labor with
                            neighboring farmers.
                    
               
                        
                     3 Since the Middle West quickly developed into a leading agricultural
                            region in the second half of the nineteenth century, midwestern agriculture has received
                            considerable scholarly attention. A short list of some book-length studies for the
                            nineteenth century includes: Jeremy Atack and Fred Bateman, To Their Own Soil:
                                Agriculture in the Antebellum North (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1987);
                            Allan G. Bogue, Money at Interest: The Farm Mortgage on the Middle Border
                                    (
                        Ithaca, N.Y.
                     , 1955); Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Cornbelt: Farming on the 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Iowa
                                 Prairies in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1963); Clarence Danhof, Change in Agriculture: The Northern
                                States, 1820–1870 (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     ,
                            1969); Paul W. Gates, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                    Prairie
                                 Frontier: Studies in American Land Policy (
                        Ithaca, N.Y.
                     , 1973); Robert P. Swierenga, Pioneers and Profits:
                                Land Speculation on the 
                                    Iowa
                                 Frontier (
                        Ames,
                                    Iowa
                     , 1976); Donald L. Winters,
                                Farmers without Farms: Agricultural Tenancy in Nineteenth-Century 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                        Westport, Conn.
                     , 1978); Lou Ferleger, ed., Agriculture and National Development: Views on the Nineteenth Century
                                    (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1990); Alan I. Marcus, Agricultural Science and the Quest for Legitimacy: Farmers, Agricultural Colleges, and
                                the Experiment Stations, 1870–1890 (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1985);
                            Earl W. Hayter, The Troubled Farmer, 1850–1900: Rural Adjustment to
                                Industrialism (
                        Dekalb, Ill.
                     , 1968).
                        Although agricultural and economic historians have done more work on the nineteenth than on
                            the twentieth century, there are a number of twentieth-century studies. See, for example:
                            Gilbert Fite, American Farmers: The New Minority (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1981); Theodore Saloutos, Agricultural Discontent in the
                                Middle West, 1900–1939 (
                        Madison, Wis.
                     , 1951);
                            Saloutos, The American Farmer and the New Deal (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1982); Richard S. Kirkendall, Social Scientists and
                                Farm Policy in the Age of Roosevelt (
                        Columbia, Mo.
                     , 1966);
                            John L. Shover, First Majority, Last Majority: The Transforming of Rural Life
                                in America (
                        Dekalb, Ill.
                     , 1976); Allen J. Matusow, Farm Policies and Politics in the Truman Years (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1967); Mary W. M. Hargreaves, Dry Farming in the
                                Northern Great Plains, 1900–1925 (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     ,
                            1957); Hargreaves, Dry Farming in the Northern Great Plains: Years of
                                Readjustment, 1920–1990 (Lawrence, Kans., 1992); Christina Campbell, The Farm Bureau and the New Deal: A Study of the Making of National Farm
                                Policy, 1933–1940 (
                        Urbana, Ill.
                     ,
                        1962).
                    
               
                  4 Robert P. Swierenga, "Theoretical Perspectives on the New Rural
                        History: From Environmentalism to Modernization," Agricultural
                        History, LVI (July, 1982), 496.
               
               
                        
                     5 More recent scholarship is available on 
                        Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, Minnesota
                     , and 
                                Nebraska
                            . The persistence of strong agricultural and rural identities in states such as 
                                Iowa
                             and 
                                Nebraska
                             has undoubtedly influenced research interests at universities in those states.
                            Both the University of 
                                Iowa
                             and 
                                Iowa State
                             University presses, for example, publish series with an agrarian focus, and
                            both institutions have history faculty members with primary research interests in rural
                            life. The University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , along with Cornell University, pioneered in the field of rural sociology, and
                            this undoubtedly influenced historical research at those institutions.
                        Perhaps it comes down to interests of faculty members at universities and their influence on
                            the research choices of their graduate students. Although members of the School of
                            Agnculture at Purdue University have produced numerous studies on various aspects of rural
                            life in Indiana, published as Experiment Station bulletins, bibliographic searches have not
                            revealed extensive historical or sociological interest in the study of rural life at either
                            Purdue University or Indiana University. At the Krannert Library at Purdue University, which
                            houses the collection on agricultural economics, there is a complete microfilm collection of
                            the 
                                United States
                             censuses for agriculture on the southern states in the nineteenth century, but
                            not for Indiana.
                    
               
                  6 The pioneer and settlement period has received extensive treatment in
                        the historiography of Indiana. Examples of some of the earliest works are: John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana from its Earliest Explorations by Europeans, to the Close of
                            Territorial Government, in 1816 & (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1859); William M. Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana Including
                            Stories, Incidents and Customs of the Early Settlers (
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind., 1907); Frances and Frank Streightoff, Indiana: A Social and
                            Economic Survey (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916); Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana from Its Exploration to
                            1850 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1915); Esarey, A History of Indiana from 1850 to the Present (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1918). (In later editions these two works are labeled volumes I and 11.) The best
                        pioneer study remains R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950).
               
                  7 Most state histories of Indiana contain informative chapters on the
                        history of agriculture but little on rural social history. See John D. Barnhart and Donald F.
                        Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), vol. I, chap. XX, vol. 11, chap. XI; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1965), chap. M, Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            1880–1920 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968), chap. IV. The one exception, in which rural life receives more
                        consideration, is James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History
                            of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920–1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982).
               
                  8 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 363;
                        Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 135. A recent study of the Midwest had few
                        citations to Indiana in its discussions drawing on the new rural history. See Andrew R. L.
                        Cayton and Peter s. Onuf, The Midwest and the Nation: Rethinking the History of an
                            American Region (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1990).
               
                  9 Indiana has by far the highest state membership in the Extension
                        Homemaker Clubs, groups originally formed for rural women in the early twentieth century.
                        Further, county fairs continue to thrive, and 4–H memberships, after declines in the
                        1980s, are on the rise. Jackie Bauman, homemaker extension agent, 
                            Putnam County
                        , Indiana, conversations with author, June, 1992; Darryl Thomas, extension educator, 
                            Putnam County
                        , remarks at 
                            Putnam County
                         Historical Society session, "Our 
                            Putnam County
                         4–H Fair: History and Highlights," 
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana, July 15, 1993.
               
                  10 Steven Hahn and Jonathan Prude, "Introduction," in
                            The Countryside in the Age of Capitalist Transformation: Essays in the Social
                            History of Rural America, ed. Hahn and Prude (
                     Chapel
                                Hill, N.C.
                  , 1985), 8.
               
                  11 Swierenga, "Theoretical Perspectives on the New Rural
                        History," 496; Hahn and Prude, "Introduction," 9.
               
                  12 Hal S. Barron, "Listening to the Silent Majority: Change and
                        Continuity in the Nineteenth-Century Rural North," in Ferleger, Agriculture and National Development, 4. The new rural history and rural sociology ask
                        many of the same questions, and much of the work by rural sociologists is very useful for
                        historians, See Barron, "The New Rural History," Rural
                            Sociologist, IV (No. 2, 1984), 112–16; Edward O. Moe, "Toward
                        Greater Collaboration Between the New Rural History  and
                        Rural Sociology," ibid., 117–20; Michael J. McDonald,
                        "Rural Social History and Rural Sociology: An Historian's
                        Perspective," ibid., 121–24.
               
                  13 Barron, "Listening to the Silent Majority," 3.
                        Additional comments on the lack of attention to rural history are found in Robert P. Swierenga,
                        "he New Rural History: Defining the Parameters," Great Plains
                            Quarterly, I (Fall, 1981), 211–12.
               
                  14 These studies, particularly John Mack Faragher's Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                                Illinois
                                Prairie
                            
                   (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  , 1986); Joan Jensen's Loosening the Bonds: Mid-Atlantic Farm Women, 1750–1850
                                (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  , 1986); Hal S. Barron's Those
                            Who Stayed Behind: Rural Society in Nineteenth-Century 
                                New England
                            
                   (
                     Cambridge, England
                  , 1984), and Nancy Grey Osterud's Bonds of Community: The Lives of Farm Women in Nineteenth Century 
                                New York
                            
                   (
                     Ithaca, N.Y.
                  , 1991), demonstrate the extraordinary
                        richness and complexity of the new rural social history.
               
                  15 Rural sociologists and anthropologists have undertaken far more work on
                        twentieth-century sources than historians.
               
                  16 Faragher, Sugar Creek, quotation 237. Two other
                        relevant works by Faragher are "History from the Inside-Out: Writing the History of
                        Women in Rural America," American Quarterly, XXXIII (Winter, 1981),
                        537–57; and Women and Men on the Overland Trail
                                (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  , 1979).
               
                  17 John Mack Faragher, "Open-Country Community: Sugar Creek, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1820–1850," in Hahn and Prude, The Countryside in
                            the Age of Capitalist Transformation, 245.
               
                  18 Faragher, Sugar Creek, 187, 204–209, 237,
               
                        
                     19 Both the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , have several manuscript collections with relevant materials far too numerous
                            to list here, but the range includes several individual and family letters and diaries,
                            organizational records (for example, the Indiana Grange papers at the state library), and
                            company records (such as those of the Oliver Chilled Plow Works at the IHS). Indiana State
                            University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , houses the manuscripts from the Indiana Federal Writers Project. These
                            materials, organized by county, contain some interesting local folklore, but much of the
                            material is taken from existing county histories.
                        Other sources include genealogy materials; small-town newspapers; the agricultural press;
                            Purdue University Extension Service publications; federal government publications,
                            especially census publications and those by the 
                                United States
                             Department of Agriculture (USDA); the Indiana State Board of
                            Agriculture's Annual Reports; records of rural churches; research
                            by early rural sociologists; and investigative reports on rural churches and schools. A
                            sampling of some of these sources includes: US., Seventh Census, 1850;
                            US., Eighth Census, 1860: Vol. 11, Agriculture; U.S.,
                                
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1925: Part I, Northern
                            States; National Archives and Records, The 1920 Federal Population Census:
                                Catalogue of National Archives Microfilm (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1991); Hoosier Farmer;
                            
                                United States
                             Department of Agriculture Statistical Reporting Service and Purdue University
                            Agriculture Experiment Station, Indiana Crop and Livestock
                                Statistics—Historic Crop Summary, 1866–1969 (
                                West Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1974); State Conference on Agriculture and Country Life in
                                Indiana (Purdue University Agricultural Extension Bulletin, No. 26; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., June, 1913); C.A. Norman, Tenant Houses for Farm Labor
                                (ibid., No. 73; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., November, 1918); Lynn Robertson, et al., Rural Youth In
                                Indiana (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 467; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., April, 1942); F. V. Smith and O. G. Lloyd, Part-Time
                                Farming in Indiana (ibid., No. 410; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., April, 1936); F. V. Smith, Farm Family Incomes and Expenses
                                of Low-Income Farm Families in Indiana (ibid., No. 485; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., July, 1943; Walter W. Wilcox and O. G. Lloyd, The Human
                                Factor in the Management of Indiana Farms (ibid., No. 369; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., August, 1932); "Social and Labor Needs of Farm Women"
                                (USDA Reports, No. 103; 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1915); Charles Josiah Galpin, Rural Life (
                                New York
                            , 1918); A. C. True, "Some Problems of the Rural Common
                            School," Yearbook of the USDA, 1901 (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1902); and Department of Church and Country Life of the Board of Home Missions
                            of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., A Rural Survey in Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1911).
                    
               
                        
                     20 The term "hardy pioneer" is not a label chosen by
                            later historians. William C. Latta in his Outline History of Indiana
                                Agriculture (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1938) offered the following (and fairly typical) commentary: 
                            
                                
                           The Hardy Pioneer—& They were predominantly
                                    robust, hopeful, and brave. No others would venture, or if they did, a taste was
                                    sufficient and they turned back, a timely warning to others like themselves. Many if
                                    not most of the early settlers were young married people who came with the dual
                                    purpose of carving a home out of the wilderness and of rearing a family therein (p.
                                    62).
                            
                  
                        Some of the best examples of "hardy pioneer" literature that nostalgically
                            glorified settlers are found in the early issues of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History. See, for example, Rolla M. Hogue, "Life in Indiana,
                            1800–1820," Indiana Magazine of History, K (March,
                            1913), 83–92; James Albert Woodburn, "Local Life and Color in the New
                            Purchase," ibid., (December, 1913), 215–33; William F.
                            Vogel, "Homelife in Early Indiana," ibid., X (June,
                            1914), 1–29; Robert Weems, "Settlement of 
                                Worthington
                             and Old Point Commerce," ibid., XII (March, 1916),
                            60–83; James B. Lewis, "Pioneers of 
                                Jefferson County
                            ," ibid., (September, 1916), 214–44; and
                            Avril S. Barr, "
                                Warrick County
                             Prior to 1818," ibid., XIV (December, 1918),
                            304–31.
                        County histories, not only those written in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries but
                            more recent ones, similarly extol the virtues of early settlers. They are nonetheless
                            extremely valuable as sources of information on founding families.
                    
               
                  21 For a succinct overview of these differences and the causes, see James
                        H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State History (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1986), chaps. I and IV.
               
                  22 Although this essay will not discuss Indian-white relations, the topic
                        needs to be examined in explorations of the early periods of white settlement in all regions of
                        Indiana. Studies of different Indian tribes that lived in what became Indiana are: Bert Anson,
                            The Miami Indians (
                     Norman,
                                Okla.
                  , 1970); R. David Edmunds, The Potawatomis: Keepers of the Fire (
                     Norman, Okla.
                  , 1978);
                        Edmunds, The Shawnee Prophet (Lincoln, Neb., 1983); and Edmunds, Tecumseh and the Quest for Indian Leadership (
                            Boston
                        , 1984). An interesting examination of Indian-white interaction is John L. Larson
                        and David G. Vanderstel, "Agent of Empire: William Conner on the Indiana Frontier,
                        1800–1855," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (December,
                        1984), 301–28.
               
                  23 Southern Indiana, the first area settled, was also the first area to
                        experience outmigration as settlers moved on to find better lands than the unglaciated, hilly
                        regions. Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 363.
               
                  24 Gregory S. Rose, "Hoosier Origins: The Nativity of
                        Indiana's 
                            United States
                        -Born Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        IXXXI (September, 1985), 201–32. Rose, "Upland Southerners: The County
                        Origins of Southern Migrants to Indiana by 1850," ibid., LXXXII
                        (September, 1986), 242–63. Rose's work is more precise than earlier work in
                        that he has been able to track the counties of origin of many of the migrants. Southern origins
                        of Hoosiers has been long recognized. See, for example, John D. Barnhart, "The Southern
                        Influence in the Formation of Indiana," ibid., MWII (September,
                        1937), 261–76; Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old
                        Northwest, 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXII
                        (June, 1935), 49–62; and Elfrieda Lang, "Southern Migration to Northern
                        Indiana before 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, L (December,
                        1954), 349–56.
               
                        
                     25 The Northwest Ordinance prohibited slavery in the Northwest Territory.
                            There has been considerable discussion of this issue and several other features of the
                            ordinances of the 1780s. Recent scholarship on the Northwest Ordinance includes: Peter Onuf,
                                Statehood and Union: A History of the Northwest Ordinance (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1987); Paul Finkelman, "Slavery and the Northwest Ordinance: A
                            Study in Ambiguity," Journal of the Early Republic, VI (Winter,
                            1986), 343–70; and the special issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History on the Northwest Ordinance, LXXXIV (March, 1988).
                        Although some of the upland southerners who settled in Indiana, primarily Quakers from 
                                North Carolina
                            , opposed the institution of slavery because of the evils it inflicted upon
                            those in bondage, most migrants to Indiana who opposed slavery were motivated by their own
                            self-interests as small farmers. For information on Quakers from 
                                North Carolina
                            , see Rose, "Quakers, North Carolinians, and Blacks in
                            Indiana's Settlement Pattern," Journal of Cultural
                            Geography, VII (Fall/Winter, 1986), 35–46.
                    
               
                  26
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana Way, 61.
               
                  27
                        Ibid.
               
                  28 Richard Lyle Power, Planting Corn Belt Culture: The
                            Impress of the Upland Southerner and Yankee in the Old Northwest (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1953), passim. Another 
                        interesting study of Indiana in the early nineteenth century is John Modell, "Family
                        and Fertility on the Indiana Frontier, 1820," American Quarterly,
                        XXIII (December, 1971), 615–34.
               
                  29 James M. Bergquist, "Tracing the Origins of a Midwestern
                        Culture: The Case of Central Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXVII (March, 1981), 26, 27. Bergquist maintains that "long-term economic forces were
                        working to develop in central Indiana an agriculture and a way of life based upon a market
                        economy such as had been developed in the Miami country a few years before." Ibid., 26.
               
                  30 Paul W. Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV (March, 1939), 4. There was an increase
                        in squatting after the War of 1812 because the threat of the British and their Indian allies was
                        removed. "While the government was committed to orderly disposal of the public domain,
                        the rapid advance of settlement and the attendant rise in squatting over vast tracts of the
                        public lands threatened its careful plans. District land offices in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         reported intruders in increasing numbers." Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Land Office Business: The Settlement and Administration of American Public
                            Lands, 1789–1837 (
                            New York
                        , 1968), 92.
               
                  31 Jane R. Nolan, "Agricultural Development in Seventeen Counties
                        in Southwestern Indiana, 1730–1900" (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1988), 4. This work was prepared under the auspices of the Department of History,
                        Indiana University-Purdue University 
                            Indianapolis
                         as part of the Resource Protection Planning Process, Indiana Regional Divisions.
               
                  32 R. T. Brown, "Review of Agriculture in Indiana,"
                        Indiana State Board of Agriculture, Thirtieth Report (1880), 217.
               
                  33 Such settlements should not be seen as antithetical to community. See
                        Faragher, "Open-Country Community," 237.
               
                  34 Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in Indiana," 6.
               
                  35 Rose, "Hoosier Origins," 228. Of Indiana's
                        American-born population born outside the state in 1850, only 2.7 percent had come from the 
                            New England
                         states compared to 44 percent from the southern states. Ibid.,
                        212, 214. See also Thomas J. Schlereth, "The 
                            New England
                         Presence on the Midwest Landscape," Old Northwest, IX
                        (Summer, 1983), 125–42.
               
                  36 Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in Indiana," 6. In
                        the Indiana Magazine of History article, several other journal articles, and
                        his book, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                Prairie
                             Frontier, Gates argues that speculators were responsible for high rates of
                        tenancy in such areas since new farmers could not afford the land at the inflated prices; and
                        farmers who had lost land, often to speculators, were forced into tenancy. Allan G. Bogue and
                        Robert P. Swierenga, in their studies of 
                            Iowa
                        , however, emphasize that with the huge amount of land made available by the
                        government it was not possible for speculators to secure enough land to set prices. They argue
                        that a competitive market, not speculators, affected land prices. See Bogue, From 
                                Prairie
                             to Cornbelt, and Swierenga, Pioneers and Profits.
               
                  37 Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in Indiana," 18. At
                        midcentury the northern prairie counties of 
                     Benton,
                                Newton
                  , and 
                            Jasper
                         were virtually undeveloped, and the same was true for parts of 
                     White, Tippecanoe
                  , and 
                            Warren
                         counties. "It was not until well into the eighteen-sixties that these
                        counties began to develop and much of their land was not improved until after 1880."
                            Ibid.
               
                  38 Paul W. Gates, "Hoosier Cattle Kings," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV (March, 1948), 1–24. Scholars continue to
                        debate Gates's thesis that high rates of tenancy coincide with land speculation. More
                        recent 
                            Iowa
                         studies that do not indicate a correlation between farm renting and speculation
                        are: Seddie Cogswell, Tenure, Nativity, and Age as Factors in 
                                Iowa
                             Agriculture, 1850–1880 (
                     Ames, Iowa
                  , 1975); and
                        Winters, Farmers without Farms. It is worth noting that the detailed economic
                        analyses on 
                            Iowa
                         have not been replicated for Indiana. Such studies will be necessary to determine
                        whether or not Gates's interpretation about land speculation in northern Indiana holds
                        up. Winters has published a useful essay on the historiographical debates on tenancy:
                        "Agricultural Tenancy in the Nineteenth-Century Middle West: The Historiographical
                        Debate," Indiana Magazine of History, IXXVIII (June, 1982),
                        128–53. The article does not address tenancy in Indiana per se; its
                        conclusions are based on Winters's 
                            Iowa
                         study.
               
                  39 Stephen Visher, "The Geography of Indiana
                        Agriculture," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Sciences, XXXVII
                        (1927), 114–16. A Purdue study that designated 
                        this area as the "Western Cash Grain" region noted in 1930 that
                        "tenant farming is more common here than elsewhere in the state, about 50 percent of
                        the farms being rented." E. C. Young and F. F. Elliott, Types of Farming
                            in Indiana (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 342, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., June, 1930), 29.
               
                  40 Steven Hahn, "The ‘Unmaking’ of the
                        Southern Yeomanry: The Transformation of the 
                            Georgia
                         Upcountry, 1860–1890," in Hahn and Prude, The
                            Countryside in the Age of Capitalist Transformation, 180.
               
                  41 Danhof, Change in Agriculture, 17.
               
                  42
                  Ibid., 22.
               
                  43 Hahn, "The ‘Unmaking’ of the Southern
                        Yeomanry," 180.
               
                  44 Nancy Grey Osterud, "Gender and the Transition to Capitalism
                        in Rural America," Agricultural History, LXVII (Spring, 1993),
                        17–18.
               
                  45 Latta, Outline History of Indiana Agriculture, 104.
                        Latta came to Purdue in 1882 as the first teacher of agriculture at the institution. He was
                        involved in the creation of the Purdue Experiment Station and ran the Farmers'
                        Institutes until 1923. Ibid., 5–6.
               
                  46 Douglass C. North, The Economic Growth of the 
                                United States
                            , 1790–1860 (
                     Englewood
                            Cliffs, N.J.
                  , 1961), 143.
               
                  47 The instability of prices and the precarious nature of market
                        participation are effectively illustrated in the early nineteenth-century experiences of Jacob
                        Weaver, who settled near 
                            Vevay
                         in 
                            Switzerland County
                        . Writing to his father and brother back in 
                            New York
                        , he explained in September, 1818, that he and his neighbors received high prices
                        for grain because there were so many new settlers coming into the area that "have no
                        improvements a nuff to rase a sufishency for their own use and have to buy from them."
                        In addition, others trading in 
                            New Orleans
                         "buy up all tay can get as long as it is cheap & so that the
                        farmer can always git red of his per-duce with eas and at a fair wise." Only two years
                        later, however, he reported dramatic changes: "at present our cuntry is very extensive
                        and perduces in abundance gits to be thick settled and abundance raised and has but one sea port
                        no furen trade at presant so the markets are glutted and peopel can scarse sell at all but what
                        they sell amunght a nother then cumes on the worst of all no money to be had if any good
                        fornothing so you must sell on credit or not at all &." In 1823 Weaver decided
                        to take his own crops down the 
                            Mississippi
                         to 
                            New Orleans
                         where he found the "trade very dull and produce very low and money very
                        scarse so we had to trade in the best manner we could to try to sell in the best manner to not
                        luse to much." Jacob Weaver to Jonas Weaver, September 6, 1818, July 30, 1820, July 24,
                        1823, Weaver Collection.
               
                  48 F. V. Smith, "Farm and Family Incomes and Expenses of
                        Low-Income Farm Families in Indiana." Smith defined subsistence farms or self-sufficing
                        farms as those "where the operator spent the major part of his time on the farm and
                        where the value of the farm products produced and used by the operator's family was 50
                        percent or more of the total value of all the products produced on the farm." Ibid., 3.
               
                        
                     49 Not until 1850 is there detailed census data on agriculture; but the
                            regular decennial censuses and other records, including local papers, receipts, letters,
                            diaries or journals, wills, and account books, shed light on economic activities of Indiana
                            farmers throughout the nineteenth century. The Fred Bateman and James D. Foust sample of
                            rural households from the 1860 manuscript census, which includes data on townships in
                            seventeen Indiana counties, is a valuable source for examining economic activity of rural
                            Hoosiers in the antebellum period. The sample includes agricultural and demographic data for
                            all households in a single rural township in each of 102 randomly selected counties in the
                            North. Of the twenty states from which townships were drawn, Indiana had the most with
                            seventeen. The Indiana counties in the sample are 
                        Clinton, Franklin, Fulton, Gibson, Knox, LaGrange, Morgan, Posey, Putnam, Shelby, Switzerland, Tippecanoe, Wabash, Warren, Warrick, Washington
                     , and 
                                Wells
                            . These counties, each represented by one township (the authors refer to
                            counties rather than township names), are scattered throughout the state. The sample
                            includes all data from the census of agriculture for each farm. From the population
                            manuscripts Bateman and Foust recorded name of head of household, value of real estate,
                            value of personal estate, plus the color, sex, age, literacy, school attendance, occupation,
                            place of birth, and parents' nationality for each individual in the household.
                            Their sample includes nonfarm as well as farm  residents
                            in these rural townships. Fred Bateman and Jame D. Foust, "Agricultural and
                            Demographic Records for Rural Households in the North, 1860" [computer file]
                            (Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, no. 7420;
                                    
                        Ann Arbor, Mich.
                     , 1976).
                        Bateman and Jeremy Atack have published several articles in addition to their book length
                            study, To Their Own Soil. These include: Atack and Bateman,
                            "Yankee Farming and Settlement in the Old Northwest: A Comparative
                            Analysis," in Essays on the Economy of the Old Northwest, ed.
                            David C. Klingaman and Richard K. Vedder (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1987),
                            77–102; and Atack and Bateman, "Yeoman Farming: Antebellum
                            America's other ‘Peculiar Institution,"’ in
                            Ferleger, Agriculture and National Development, 25–52. Although
                            their analysis focuses primarily on comparisons between the Northeast and the Middle West as
                            regions, they have numerous tables for the individual states in To Their Own
                                Soil. Several of their charts indicate statistics for the selected townships. The
                            information they have coded will make it possible to compare regions within Indiana.
                    
               
                  50 Nolan, "Agricultural Development in Seventeen Counties in
                        Southwestern Indiana," 34. See also Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War
                            Era, chap. VIII.
               
                  51 After analyzing all the factors involved in his national survey,
                        economic historian Douglass North concluded that the decrease in "transport
                        costs" was the single most important factor in the shift to market agriculture. North,
                            Economic Growth, 143–46.
               
                  52 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 362, 374.
               
                  53 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, 11, 207.
               
                        
                     54 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            375–77. Thornbrough notes that there were few major changes in farm machinery by
                            the 1870s but that all machinery was being improved in ways that made it easier to operate
                            and more efficient. Precise dating of adoption of machinery is difficult because there was
                            so much variation even within communities. It is possible to determine when various pieces
                            of equipment became available by displays at the state fairs, which began in the 1850s, but
                            displays do not reveal much about actual use.
                        A critical innovation in plows, the Oliver Chilled-Iron Plow, was developed in Indiana by
                            James Oliver. The plow was as strong as steel but much cheaper, and Oliver's
                            factory in 
                                South Bend
                             had become the world's largest plow manufacturing plant by the late
                            1870s. Ibid., 375. The papers of the Oliver Chilled-Iron Plow Company are
                            at the Indiana Historical Society.
                        See also Harvey L. Carter, "Rural Indiana in Transition,
                            1850–1860," Agricultural History, XX (April, 1946),
                            107–21.
                    
               
                  55 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, 11, 208.
               
                  56 Nolan, "Agricultural Development in Seventeen Counties in
                        Southwestern Indiana," 34.
               
                  57 One Purdue study compared 
                            Benton County
                         in the nearly level prairie area with 
                            Crawford County
                         in south central Indiana to demonstrate the greatest contrast in patterns of
                        agricultural production. See Lynn S. Robertson and Earl L. Butz, Indiana's
                            Agriculture: Its Output, Costs, and Trends (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment
                            Station Bulletin, No. 523; 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., August, 1947), 5. The differences between farmers with more machinery and
                        those without labor-saving equipment are discussed in Smith, Farm and Family
                            Incomes and Expenses of Low Income Farm Families in Indiana, 10–11.
               
                        
                     58 James Sanford Rikoon, "From Flail to Combine: Folk Culture
                            and Technological Change in the Rural Midwest" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                            University, 1986); J. Sanford Rikoon, Threshing in the Midwest,
                                1820–1940: A Study of Traditional Culture and Technological Change (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1988).
                        The impact of technology on rural women will be discussed further in relation to research
                            possibilities on women. A model study on women and technology is Katherine Jellison, Entitled to Power: Farm Women and Technology, 1913–1963
                                    (
                        Chapel Hill, N.C.
                     , 1993).
                    
               
                  59 Jellison's Entitled to Power is an extremely
                        valuable study of midwestern farm women and their attitudes toward farm and household
                        technology. The study, although it encompasses Indiana, uses only limited sources from the
                        state. Nonetheless, it seems likely that several of the author's conclusions for women
                        in the region would hold for women in Indiana. In an earlier study of rural women in
                                
                     Kansas, Nebraska
                  , and North and South Dakota, Jellison found that
                        farm women strongly  desired household and communication
                        technology and resented men for failing to recognize their wishes. One form of technology that
                        both men and women valued was the radio. Many families acquired radios before any other
                        household conveniences. They were less expensive, they could be run without electrical wiring,
                        and they provided valuable information and entertainment for isolated farm families on the Great
                        Plains. According to Jellison, radios had an enormous impact on farm women's lives.
                        Jellison, "Women and Technology on the Great Plains, 1910–1940,"
                            Great Plains Quarterly, VIII (Summer, 1988), 145–57.
               
                  60 For a discussion of the impact of the automobile on rural life in the
                        twentieth century, see Joseph Interrante, "You Can't Go to Town in a Bathtub:
                        Automobile Movement and the Reorganization of Rural American Space,
                        1900–1930," Radical History Review, XXI (Fall, 1979),
                        151–68.
               
                  61 Numerous homemakers interviewed in the Memories of Hoosier
                            Homemakers series recalled their visits to town and their regrets that they still
                        lacked indoor plumbing and electricity. Many reflected upon the transformation of their daily
                        lives when they finally acquired the conveniences that their town and city counterparts had
                        enjoyed for decades. The benefits of electricity were emphasized in countless lessons by the
                        home demonstration agents, and rural Hoosiers with the means and the money enthusiastically
                        converted. Some families acquired Delco battery packs and obtained electricity that way, but the
                        distances in rural Indiana meant that there were long delays before entire neighborhoods were
                        wired for electricity. See, in particular, Eleanor Arnold, ed., Party Lines, Pumps
                            and Privies (Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, Vol. 11; [
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1984]).
               
                        
                     62
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 171. At the very end
                            of the 1930s federal funding through the Rural Electrification Administration greatly
                            increased the number of rural Indiana homes with electricity. In 1920 the figure was 10
                            percent; in 1930 it was 16.7; in 1937 it was 17.4 percent; and in 1940 it was 51.8 percent.
                            All of the figures except 1937 are from ibid.
                        Gail Redfield, Selection, Operation, and Care of Electric Household
                            Equipment (Purdue University Cooperative Extension Bulletin, No. 215; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., March, 1937), estimated that in 1937 more than 35,000 Indiana farms were
                            using electricity. The total number of farms in 1935 was 200,835 so it is apparent that
                            prior to the second half of the decade the percentage of homes with electricity had not
                            increased much from 1930. Redfield's commentary is fairly typical in extolling the
                            virtues of electricity for rural homes: 
                                The use of electrical equipment for household tasks results in decided saving both in
                                    the housewife's time and energy. The total time saved by using electricity
                                    in cleaning, laundry work and cooking alone amounts to seven hours a week or a
                                    savings of one-third the time required without electricity. Similar figures might be
                                    given showing time saved through the use of electricity in sewing, refrigeration,
                                    and water systems. The saving of human energy is often more important than that of
                                    time saving and quite as striking contrasts might be given showing the saving of
                                    energy through the use of electrical household equipment. Ibid.,
                                    2.
                             Ruth Schwartz Cowan, in More Work for Mother: The Ironies of Household
                                Technology from the Open Hearth to the Microwave (
                                New York
                            , 1983), argues that household technology did not lessen the amount of time
                            women spent on housework. Although her argument is compelling for middle-class urban women,
                            the IEHC oral histories offer more support for Redfield's point of view.
                    
               
                        
                     63 Lynn Robertson and Keith Amstutz, Telephone Problems in
                                Rural Indiana (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 548; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., September, 1949). See especially a chart with the following figures: in
                            1920, 136,140 or 66.4 percent of all Hoosier farms had telephones; in 1930, 110,333 or 60.8
                            percent; in 1940, 83,675 or 45.3 percent; in 1948, 118,000 or 66 percent. Robertson and
                            Amstutz calculated that farm telephones actually decreased by 38 percent between 1920 and
                            1945. Ibid., 3.
                        The telephone story involves more than numbers, however, for the quality of service for those
                            with telephones was often abysmal. Because of obsolete or decaying equipment there was often
                            so much static on the line that it was difficult to carry on conversations. Although rural
                            Hoosiers may have valued neighborliness, party lines with ten and in some cases as many as
                            seventeen or eighteen parties undoubtedly strained the bonds of community. Ibid., 8.
                    
               
               
                  64 Some of these publications in Indiana and the year they first appeared
                        are: Indiana Farmer (1866), Farmers' Guide (1888),
                            Farm Life (originally Agricultural Epitomist, 1882), Farm, Herd and Home (1881), and Up-to-Date Farming (1898).
                        Specialized farm journals include Swine Breeder's Journal (1882), Live Stock Journal (1889), and Inland Poultry Journal
                        (1896). Information on these publications is in Phillips, Indiana in
                        Transition, 141–42. A collection of writings on agriculture that gives some
                        sense of opinions and developments earlier in the century is Herbert A. Keller, ed., Solon Robinson, A Pioneer and Agriculturist: Selected Writings,
                            1825–1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. XXI, XXII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1936).
               
                  65 Indiana State Board of Agriculture, Fifth Report
                        (1856), xiii-xv, 31–41. The recreational aspects of the fairs were recognized early
                        in their history. The secretary of the State Board of Agriculture noted in 1856: "The
                        immense throng of visitors formed the most prominent feature of the late fair, and the
                        increasing attendance illustrates the wisdom of a permanent central location for these annual
                        gatherings&. Our hard working, nervous, restless population needs an annual period of
                        relaxation, and that which comes at the close of their summer toil, uniting rest and
                        instruction, seems best suited for this purpose." Ibid., 38.
               
                  66 Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 170–71.
               
                  67 World War I definitely spurred the movement to protect the interests of
                        farmers. In 
                            Warren County
                        , for example, members were convinced that farmers were being drafted in
                        disproportionate numbers. 
                            Warren County
                         Farm Bureau Papers (Indiana Historical Society). From its beginning in Indiana the
                        Farm Bureau made it clear that the organization was composed of respectable members of the
                        farming community and that it was not a bunch of radicals or troublemakers. Although the local
                        groups were often formed in order to aid the work of the county agents from Purdue, Edna Moore
                        Colby, in Hoosier Farmers in a New Day (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968), hints at some tension between the Farm Bureau and Purdue on questions about
                        the influence of the university and farmers' autonomy. Bureau members objected when
                        "experts" at Purdue sought to direct activities of the organization. Ibid., 33. See also Paul O. Turner, They Did It in Indiana: The
                            Story of the Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperatives (
                            New York
                        , 1947).
               
                  68 Those interested in organizational and institutional approaches to
                        rural life in the twentieth century will find intriguing questions to explore in the
                        relationship between the Farm Bureau and Purdue University. Although many county agents
                        established solid relationships with Farm Bureau leaders, there is evidence to suggest that some
                        local Farm Bureaus resented the fact that county agents tried to direct the local Farm Bureau
                        activities and seemed to assume that the Farm Bureau was there primarily to promote the
                        agents' programs rather than to promote the economic self-interests of the farmers.
                        There was considerable tension between Purdue agricultural faculty and William H. Settle,
                        Indiana Farm Bureau president from 1923 to 1934. Settle supported federal aid to agriculture and
                        promoted the McNary-Haugen bill in the 1920s. Purdue faculty regarded him as a
                        "misguided radical" and believed that rather than federal aid, farmers could
                        be helped through improved farming techniques. Tracing the evolution of this institutional
                        relationship throughout the twentieth century will make a significant contribution to the
                        understanding of agricultural policies in Indiana. 
                            Madison
                        , Tradition and Change, 173, 177.
               
                  69 In the late nineteenth century there was no consensus about what the
                        curriculum for the agricultural colleges should include. Throughout the country there was
                        considerable disagreement between those who favored a practical "how to"
                        course of study and those who supported scientific agriculture. The development of experiment
                        stations at the agricultural schools tended to satisfy many of the objectives of both groups.
                        See Marcus, Agricultural Science and the Quest for Legitimacy. In Indiana the
                        state legislature did not provide support for the Purdue University Experiment Station until
                        1905, which fact made the federal funds from the 1887 Hatch Act critical in these early years.
                        Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 143. See also Wayne D. Rasmussen, Taking the University to the People: Seventy-Five Years of Cooperative
                        Extension (
                     Ames, Iowa
                  , 1989). The Experiment Station began issuing its
                        numbered Bulletins in the 1880s. The Cooperative Extension Bulletins first appeared in 1910. Historians will probably not find the results of the
                        scientific experiments particularly useful, but some of the social scientific studies of rural
                        life are extremely valuable sources.
               
               
                  70 Among the first outreach efforts were the Farmers' Institutes,
                        which were held by the Board of Agriculture in conjunction with Purdue beginning in 1882. Purdue
                        professors and various members of the state board lectured to farmers and farm women, but low
                        attendance signaled the failure of this initial effort. When farmers themselves became more
                        involved, the institutes had wider appeal. There were also women's auxiliaries
                        organized in many counties in conjunction with the Farmers' Institutes. In 1908
                        delegates from the auxiliaries met and concluded that there should be at least one separate
                        session for women at each institute and that all the institutes should use highly respected
                        local speakers. William C. Latta, Indiana Farmers' Institutes for
                            1908–1909 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1909), 42–43. Purdue also sought other methods of reaching
                        farmers: agriculture trains carried staff around the state to talk to farmers and demonstrate
                        scientific methods, and short courses for farmers were held at 
                            Lafayette
                         and other locations. Latta, Indiana Farmers' Institutes from
                            Their Origin, in 1882 to 1904 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1904), 5; Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 143–46.
               
                  71 George I. Christie, "Report of the Superintendent,"
                            Second Annual Report of Purdue University Department of Agricultural Extension
                            for the Year Ending June 30, 1913 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1914), 3, 5. The Maish Act of 1909 appropriated $10,000 annually
                        to the Experiment Station for agricultural extension work. As a result of the demands created by
                        this work, the legislature in 1911 passed the Clore Act, which appropriated additional funds for
                        extension work. It was under this appropriation that the first county agents were appointed and
                        the new Department of Agricultural Extension created at Purdue. See George I. Christie,
                        "Report of the Superintendent," First Annual Report of Purdue
                            University Department of Agricultural Extension for the Year Ending June 30, 1912 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1913), 4–7. From the year ending in June, 1913, to the year
                        ending in June, 1914, the number of county agents increased from four to twenty-seven. Third Annual Report of Purdue University Department of Agricultural Extension for
                            the Year Ending June 30, 1914 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1915), 4.
               
                  72 "Smith-Lever Act," quoted in George I. Christie,
                        "Report of the Superintendent," Fourth Annual Report of Purdue
                            University Department of Agricultural Extension for the Year Ending June 30, 1915 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1916), 7.
               
                  73 President Theodore Roosevelt was a strong supporter of the Country Life
                        Movement and helped to make it quite visible. In addition to spurring much of the early research
                        and publication in the field of rural sociology, the movement led to some interesting
                        investigations on churches and schools and more general commentaries on rural life. See Liberty
                        Hyde Bailey, The Country-Life Movement in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1911); Sir Horace Plunkett, The Rural Life Problem of the 
                                United States
                            : Notes of an Irish Observer (
                            New York
                        , 1910); Report of the 
                                United States
                             Country Life Commission (
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1909); the American Country Life Association's journal, Rural America;
                        
                            Warren
                         Hugh Wilson, The Church of the Open Country (
                            New York
                        , 1911); Kenyon Butterfield, The Country Church and the Rural
                        Problem (
                            Chicago
                        , 1911); True, "Some Problems of the Rural Common School"; and
                        Ellwood P. Cubberley, The Improvement of Rural Schools (
                            Boston
                        , 1912).
               
                  74 David Danbom's study of the Country Life Movement, The Resisted Revolution: Urban America and the Industrialization of Agriculture,
                            1900–1930 (
                     Ames, Iowa
                  , 1979), made extensive use of reports
                        by county agents for the 
                            United States
                         Department of Agriculture and found considerable opposition to the agents and the
                        messages they carried. Danbom argues that county agents often had more receptive audiences with
                        rural merchants, bankers, and businessmen than with farmers. Ibid.,
                        86–89.
               
                        
                     75 Further research on Indiana is necessary to determine the reactions to
                            the county agents throughout the state. The National Archives has eighty reels of microfilm
                            on Indiana, "Extension Service Annual Reports: Indiana,
                            1912–1944," T859. These records are arranged chronologically and are
                            available for purchase from Scholarly Resources, Inc. I have not been able to locate this
                            microfilm within Indiana. The records of the Cooperative Extension Office at the Purdue
                            University School of Agriculture are located in the attic of the Agricultural Hall. Copies
                            of the reports that county agents sent to 
                                Washington
                            —plus other materials including photographs—and records
                            after 1944 are literally stashed in the attic. Sometime in the past five years records for
                            about three-fourths of the counties were discarded, beginning  with the first of the alphabet. All of the 
                                Putnam County
                             records remain, but for the most part only counties from S-W were not
                            discarded. I would like to thank Joy Pherson for guiding me through the attic.
                        These records are essential for anyone interested in the work of the county agents, who were
                            required to keep incredibly detailed records of all their actions. Their reports include not
                            only rather candid narrative comments but also detailed statistical accounts of their work.
                            Some idea of the richness of these materials can be demonstrated with reference to the 
                                Putnam County
                             records.
                        R. S. Fouts became the first agent in 
                                Putnam County
                             when he was appointed an Emergency Demonstration Agent in May, 1918. At the end
                            of his first six months he reported that farmers "are taking to the work and the
                            longer I am here the [b]usier I become." He complained that he was always
                            "rushed for time with which to push my demonstration work and that the many
                            requests for help with war work "kept us always behind our schedules." He
                            "did not know how to systematize my work and especially the office work."
                            Finally, he noted that there was "too much club work." Midway through the
                            following year Fouts resigned, "not because of dissatisfaction with the work
                            itself, but because I felt I could do better financially in most any other kind of work
                            & I have only one critism [sic] to make and one suggestion to
                            offer, and that is that the County Agents are very much underpaid for the work that they are
                            expected to do, and the qualifications that they are expected to have, and they should
                            receive a much higher salary than they are now receiving." R. S. Fouts,
                            "Narrative Report of Years Work. Work Done as Emergency Demonstration
                            Agent," 1918, 
                                Putnam County
                             Files (Purdue University School of Agriculture, Agricultural Hall attic, 
                                West Lafayette
                            , Ind.); and Fouts, "Narrative Report of the Work Done for the year by
                            R. S. Fouts, 
                                Putnam County
                             Agent Resigned," 1919, ibid.
                    
               
                  76
                        Fourth Annual Report of Purdue University Department of Agricultural
                        Extension, 14–16; 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 161–62.
               
                  77 David O. Thompson, A History: Fifty Years of Extension
                            Service in Indiana (n.p., [1962]), 54–58. Four members were listed on the
                        home economics staff of the Cooperative Extension Department for the year ending in June, 1915.
                        For the year ending in June, 1918, six women were listed as urban home demonstration agents and
                        twenty-six were listed as emergency home demonstration agents in rural areas. Seventh Annual Report of Purdue University Department of Agricultural Extension for the
                            Year Ending June 30, 1918 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1919), 7. Their numbers increased the following year but then dropped off to
                        six the next year and during most of the 1920s; only 
                            Vanderburgh County
                         had a home demonstration agent. Women in rural communities across the state carried
                        on the work with the Home Ec Clubs. In 1928 the Capper-Ketcham Act provided additional federal
                        funding and made possible the appointment of seven new agents. "Division of Home
                        Economics," Eighteenth Annual Report of Purdue University Department of
                            Agricultural Extension, July 1, 1928 to June 30, 1929 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1930), 9, 49. By 1931 there were still only twelve home demonstration agents
                        compared with eighty-six county agents. Twentieth Annual Report of the Department
                            of Agricultural Extension, July 1, 1930 to June 30, 1931 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1932), 35, 58. The best source for information on what the clubs meant to
                        women are the Indiana Extension Homemakers Association oral history interviews. The volume Going to Club: Seventy-five Years with Extension Homemakers (Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, Vol. V [
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1988]) is very informative, but the interview transcripts also contain some
                        information not included in the published volume on the dynamics within clubs.
               
                  78 Only two of the fifteen counties in south central Indiana, Lawrence and
                        Clark, had county agents in 1913. All but six of the remaining twenty-five agents were in
                        central Indiana. Third Annual Report of the Purdue University Department of
                            Agricultural Extension, 4.
               
                  79 Historical works to consult include Don Harrison Doyle, The Social Order of a Frontier Community: 
                        Jacksonuille, Illinois
                     , 1825–70 (
                     Urbana, Ill.
                  , 1978);
                        Ruth Sutter, The Next Place You Come To: The Town in North America (
                            New York
                        , 1973); Robert Dykstra, The Cattle Towns (
                            New York
                        , 1968); and Jane Marie Pederson, Between Memory and Reality: Family
                            and Community in Rural Wisconsin, 1870–1970 (
                     Madison, Wis.
                  , 1992). Broader discussions on the historical study of community are
                        provided by Thomas Bender, Community and Social Change in America
                                (
                     New Brunswick, N.J.
                  , 1978) and David Russo, Families and
                            Communities: A New View of American History (
                            Nashville
                        , 1974).
               
               
                  80 Faragher, "Open-Country Community," 237; E. Dwight
                        Sanderson, The Farmer and His Community (
                            New York
                        , 1922), 9. Other early twentieth-century publications in rural sociology include
                        Charles J. Galpin, Rural Life (
                            New York
                        , 1918); John H. Kolb, Rural Primary Groups: A Study of Agricultural
                            Neighborhoods (
                     Madison, Wis.
                  , 1921); and Sanderson, Rural Sociology and Rural Social Organization (
                            New York
                        , 1942). Two recent studies of rural communities are Sonya Salamon, 
                     
                                Prairie
                             Patrimony: Family, Farming, and Community in the Midwest
                                (
                     Chapel Hill, N.C.
                  , 1992); and Peggy F. Bartlett, American
                            Dreams, Rural Realities: Family Farms in Crisis (
                     Chapel Hill, N.C.
                  ,
                        1993).
               
                  81 See Pederson, Between Memory and Reality, for an
                        innovative exploration of the networks of community visiting in 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Pederson used columns in local papers with accounts of visits to establish her
                        networks of friends and kin.
               
                  82 Kenneth J. Winkle, The Politics of Community: Migration
                            and Politics in 
                                Antebellum
                            
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                   (
                     Cambridge, England
                  , 1988), 176.
               
                  83 The Archives of DePauw University and Indiana United Methodism,
                        Green-castle, Indiana, include not only official church business, such as elections of church
                        officers, but also minutes of many different church groups, including various women's
                        auxiliaries. The records of the women's groups indicate that in many congregations
                        although the men may have held the church offices women were quite involved in the business of
                        the church. Not only did they hold the church suppers that fostered fellowship but through some
                        of their fund raising activities they directly affected the business of the church.
               
                  84 James H. Madison, "Reformers and the Rural Church,
                        1900–1950," The Journal of American History, LXXIII
                        (December, 1986), 667.
               
                  85 Several studies of different religious denominations in Indiana have
                        been published. These include Henry K. Shaw, Hoosier Disciples: A Comprehensive
                            History of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) in Indiana (
                            St. Louis
                        , 1966); Elizabeth K. Nottingham, Methodism and the Frontier: Indiana
                            Proving Ground (
                            New York
                        , 1941); L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early
                            Indiana (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  , 1963); L. C. Rudolph, William W.
                        Wimberly, and Thomas W. Clayton, eds., Indiana Letters: Abstracts of Letters from
                            Missionaries on the Indiana Frontier to the American Home Missionary Society,
                            1824–1893 (3 vols., 
                            Ann Arbor
                        , 1979); Horace N. Herrick and William W. Sweet, A History of the North
                            Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, from its Organization in 1844 to the
                            Present (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917). Frederick A. Norwood, History of the North Indiana Conference,
                            1917–1956 (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind., 1957). (The works by Herrick and Sweet and by Norwood are generally listed
                        as volumes I and II of a set.) The 
                            United States
                         census is of course a valuable source for determining strengths of various
                        religious denominations within communities. The Sunday School and its role in rural life must
                        also be explored. See Grover L. Hartman, A School for God's People: A
                            History of the Sunday School Movement in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980).
               
                  86 A 1940 Purdue study of rural youth in 
                     Blackford, La Porte, Hancock
                  , and 
                            Orange
                         and 
                            Monroe
                         counties revealed that rural boys dropped out of school earlier than rural girls.
                        In 
                            Blackford County
                         77 percent of the boys and 87 percent of the girls completed high school; in 
                            La Porte
                         the figures were 67 percent and 75 percent; in 
                            Hancock
                         80 percent and 86 percent; and in 
                            Orange
                         and 
                            Monroe
                         together 56 percent and 78 percent. It is striking that in the southern counties of 
                            Orange
                         and 
                            Monroe
                         just over half of the boys but almost 80 percent of the girls were high school
                        graduates. Robertson, Rural Youth in Indiana, 43.
               
                  87 The first compulsory education law in Indiana was passed in 1897, but
                        according to Robert s. Lynd and Helen M. Lynd, the law only required twelve weeks of consecutive
                        attendance from ages eight to fourteen. "Until 1924 the upper age limit for required
                        school attendance was fourteen." The Lynds also noted that high school attendance
                        increased 56 percent from 1920 to 1924. Lynd and Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                            : A Study in Contemporary American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 1929), 183–84.
               
                  88 Wayne E. Fuller, The Old Country School: The Story of
                            Rural Education in the Middle West (
                            Chicago
                        , 1982), includes considerable information on rural education in Indiana, but he
                        does not deal with differences within the state.
               
                  89 James H. Madison, "John D. Rockefeller's General
                        Education Board and the Rural School Problem in the Midwest, 1900–1930," History of Education Quarterly, XXIV (Summer, 1984), 193, 194, 195.
               
               
                  90 See H. E. Moore and O. G. Lloyd, The Back-to-the-Land
                            Movement in Southern Indiana (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station
                        Bulletin, No. 409; 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., April, 1936).
               
                  91 Atack and Bateman, To Their Own Soil,
                        186–200. Donald L. Winter explains: "Increases in output per worker also
                        enabled the agricultural sector to satisfy the growing demand for its products at home and
                        abroad while employing a declining portion of the labor force. In 1860 farming used 60 percent
                        of the labor force; by the end of the century it used less than 40 percent." Winter,
                        "The Economics of Midwestern Agriculture, 1865 to 1900," in Ferleger, Agriculture and National Development, 87.
               
                  92 Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 135; U.S., Twelfth Census, 1900: Vol. 11, Population, plate 16.
               
                        
                     93 In 1910 there were 215,485 farms; in 1920, 205,126; in 1925, 195,786;
                            in 1930, 181,570; in 1935, 200,835. US., 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census of Agriculture, 1935: Vol. II, part 1, Reports for
                                States with Statistics for Counties and a Summary for the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2nd ser., 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1936), 138. Even more significant was the increase in the number of farms with
                            over 175 acres. Farms of this size accounted for almost 43 percent of all farm land by 1940.
                            Medium-sized farms with 50 to 75 acres decreased significantly. 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 165.
                        Although the trend was reversed temporarily when unemployed workers returned to rural areas
                            during the Depression with the "back-to-the-land" movement, outmigration
                            and farm desertion were highest in southern Indiana. For information on the
                            "back-to-the-land movement, see Moore and Lloyd, The Back-To-The-Land
                                Movement in Southern Indiana.
                        Regardless of the county, however, the 1935 agricultural census indicates that longevity
                            itself was a factor in persistence. In 1935, 48,805 Hoosier farm operators who owned their
                            own farms had been in farming for fifteen years or more and were by far the largest group of
                            landowners.
                    
               
                  94 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 363; U.S.,
                            Seventeenth Census, 1950: Vol. 11, Population, plates
                        14, 44.
               
                  95 Two interesting studies of part-time farming and nonfarm rural
                        residents are Smith and Lloyd, Part-Time Farming in Indiana; and H. L. Hawley,
                            Small Agricultural Holdings in Two Industrial Areas in Indiana (Purdue
                            University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin, No. 460; 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., May, 1941).
               
                  96 US., 1990 Census of Population and Housing: Summary
                            Social, Economic, and Housing Characteristics, Indiana, Summary Tape File 3A, CD-ROM.
               
                  97 Hal Barron, in his work on 
                     Chelsea, Vermont
                  ,
                        questions whether population decline at least in the late nineteenth century should be equated
                        with stagnation. Barron's rural 
                            Vermont
                         village experienced some outmigration and virtually no in-migration in the late
                        nineteenth century. Those who remained behind were not suffering economic distress but were in
                        fact very stable farm families whose lives reflected a remarkable degree of continuity. Barron,
                        "Staying Down on the Farm: Social Processes of Settled Rural Life in the
                        Nineteenth-Century North," in Hahn and Prude, The Countryside in the Age
                            of Capitalist Transformation, 327–44.
               
                  98 See, for example, Gary Comstock, ed., Is There a Moral
                            Obligation to Save the Family Farm? (
                     Ames, Iowa
                  , 1987); Mark
                        Friedberger, Farm Families and Change in Twentieth-Century America
                                (
                     Lexington, Ky.
                  , 1988); Friedberger, Shake-Out: 
                                Iowa
                             Farm Families in the 1980s (
                     Lexington, Ky.
                  , 1989);
                        Steve Murdock and F. Larry Leistritz, eds., The Farm Financial Crisis:
                            Socioeconomic Dimensions and Implications for Producers and Rural Areas
                                (
                     Boulder, Colo.
                  , 1988); Paul Rosenblatt, Farming Is in Our
                            Blood: Farm Families in Economic Crisis (
                     Ames, Iowa
                  , 1990); and
                        William B. Browne, et al., Sacred Cows and Hot Potatoes: Agrarian Myths in
                            Agricultural Policy (
                     Boulder, Colo.
                  , 1992). For a scathing critique of the
                        role of agricultural colleges and the federal government, see Jim Hightower, Hard
                            Tomatoes, Hard Times: The Original Hightower Report, Unexpurgated, of the Agribusiness
                            Accountability Project on the Failure of America's Land Grant College Complex and
                            Selected Additional Views of the Problems and Prospects of American Agriculture in the Late
                            Seventies (
                     Cambridge, Mass.
                  , 1978).
               
                  99 Forthcoming from the Indiana Historical Society is an anthology of
                        essays on different ethnic groups in Indiana. The essays originated as papers delivered at the
                        November, 1992, Indiana Historical Society Annual Meeting. For blacks in Indiana in the
                        nineteenth century see Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana before
                        
                        1900: A Study of a Minority (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1957). The Indiana Historical Society's Black History News
                            and Notes, edited by Wilma Gibbs, is a useful guide to sources and research on blacks
                        in Indiana history.
               
                  100 Gregory S. Rose, "The Distribution of Indiana's
                        Ethnic and Racial Minorities in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVII (September, 1991), 225–26, 259–60.
               
                        
                     101 Germans made up over half the foreign-born population in 1850.
                            "As was true of the foreign-born population as a whole, counties with river, canal,
                            lake, or road access and with urban centers tended to be the most German," although
                            Germans composed 58.1 percent of the population in rural 
                                Dubois County
                            . Rose, "The Distribution of Indiana's Ethnic and Racial
                            Minorities in 1850," 231. See also Elfrieda Lang, "German Immigration to 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, During the Nineteenth Century," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XLI (June, 1945), 131–51. A more recent study is
                            Juliet Anne Niehaus, "Ethnic Formation and Transformation: The German-Catholics of 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, 1838–1979" (Ph.D. dissertation, New School for
                            Social Research, 
                                New York City
                            , 1981). See also Frederick Trautman, ed. and trans., "‘Life
                            in the Wild’: Three German Letters from Indiana, 1852–1853,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (June, 1984).
                        Rose reiterates conclusions of other scholars that "throughout Indiana at
                            mid-nineteenth century blacks were proportionally more common in urban than in rural
                            areas." Rose, "The Distribution of Indiana's Ethnic and Racial
                            Minorities in 1850," 250. These population trends for both blacks and foreign-born
                            continued throughout the remainder of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth century,
                            with increasing proportions residing in urban rather than rural areas of the state.
                        Comparisons between Indiana's foreign-born population and that of other mid-western
                            states are especially striking for farmers. Kathleen Neils Conzen calculated that 9.8
                            percent of the farmers in Indiana in 1880 were foreign-born in contrast to percentages of
                            12.6 for 
                                Ohio
                            , 24.3 for 
                                Illinois
                            , 31.2 for 
                                Michigan
                            , 60.5 for 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 65.5 for 
                                Minnesota
                            , and 28.7 for 
                                Iowa
                            . Conzen, "Immigrants in Nineteenth-Century Agricultural
                            History," in Ferleger, Agriculture and National Development,
                            303–42.
                    
               
                  102 For examples of studies of blacks in rural communities see George K.
                        Hesslink, Black Neighbors: Negroes in a Northern Rural Community (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968); and Frederick A. Karst, "A Rural Black Settlement in 
                            St. Joseph County
                        , Indiana, before 1900," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXN (September, 1978), 252–67.
               
                  103 Conzen, "Immigrants in Nineteenth-Century Agricultural
                        History," 305.
               
                  104 Conzen summarizes the conclusions of several recent studies of
                        immigrants in rural areas. Ibid., 317–32. Her bibliography is an
                        especially useful guide to recent scholarship on ethnic groups in rural America. Ibid., 334–42. One fine example of recent scholarship is Sonya
                        Salamon's 
                     
                                Prairie
                             Patriarchy, which explores the differences between German farm families
                        and Yankee farm families in land inheritance strategies in 
                            Illinois
                        .
               
                  105 The incredible popularity of the Ku Klux Klan in Indiana in the first
                        half of the 1920s is often cited as an example of racism and nativism in the state. Two
                        significant recent studies on the KKK in Indiana reach different conclusions about the
                        importance of racial and religious intolerance as factors that motivated white, Protestant
                        Hoosier men and women to join the KKK. Both, however, found strong support for the KKK in urban
                            and rural areas, thus making it clear that the KKK in Indiana was not
                        symptomatic of urban-rural tensions. Kathleen Blee's study of women in the Indiana Klan
                        emphasizes the group's rabid anti-Catholicism and racism, but Leonard J. Moore in Citizen Klansmen argues that although the KKK's message emphasized
                        white Protestant nationalism, he believes that Indiana's Klansmen "were
                        concerned first and foremost with Prohibition enforcement and crime, with state and local
                        political corruption, and with a wide range of other issues that affected individual towns and
                        cities." Kathleen Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism and Gender in the
                        1920s (Berkeley, 1991); Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan
                            in Indiana, 1921–1928 (
                     Chapel
                            Hill, N.C.
                  , 1991), 23,
                        quotation 11.
               
                  106 Examples of the research in women's history that focus on
                        urban middle-class women and discusses the ideology of separate spheres are Nancy F. Cott, The Bonds of Womanhood: "Woman's Sphere" in 
                                New England
                            , 1780–1835 (
                     New
                            Haven, Conn.
                  , 1977); Ann
                        Douglas, The Feminization of American Culture (
                            New York
                        ,  1977); and Mary P. Ryan, Womanhood in America from Colonial Times to the Present (
                            New York
                        , 1975). An influential article that presents middle-class men and women as members
                        of separate cultures created by sharp gender distinctions is Carroll Smith-Rosenberg,
                        "The Female World of Love and Ritual: Relations Between Women in Nineteenth-Century
                        America," Signs, I (Winter, 1975), 1–25. Linda Kerber has
                        offered some important criticisms of the use of the rhetoric of separate spheres. See Linda K.
                        Kerber, "Separate Spheres, Female Worlds, Woman's Place: The Rhetoric of
                        Women's History," Journal of American History, LXXV (June,
                        1988), 9–39.
               
                  107 It should be noted that most older studies of the evolution of the Old
                        Northwest, including, for example, R. Carlyle Buley's 1950 Pulitzer Prize-winning The Old Northwest, largely ignore women. Although Buley provides detailed
                        descriptions of pioneer life in which he explains numerous household artifacts and processes and
                        offers occasional comments, such as "the output of some of these home looms,
                        considering the multifarious duties of the housewife, was tryly prodigious," the women
                        performing these tasks seem like nonentities (I, 206).
               
                  108 Osterud, "Transition to Capitalism," 20.
               
                  109 Faragher, Sugar Creek, 118. Anthropologist Deborah
                        Fink, in Agrarian Women: Wives and Mothers in Rural Nebraska,
                        1880–1940 (
                     Chapel Hill, N.C.
                  , 1992), concludes that rural women in
                        the Great Plains area of 
                     Boone County, Nebraska
                  , were also inadequately valued
                        within the rural household. These 
                            Nebraska
                         women were not "insulated from gender oppression," their physical
                        labor (and that of their children) was exploited, and their isolation deprived them of community
                        support which made them more vulnerable to domestic violence. Fink emphasizes the theme of
                        isolation as women's experience on the plains of 
                            Nebraska
                        . Landless families moved frequently and failed to develop community ties, but even
                        women in more prosperous, settled families experienced physical and emotional isolation. By the
                        end of the 1930s less than one-fifth of the farms in the county could be reached by graveled or
                        hard-surfaced roads. It was usually men who went to town and women who remained at home. 
                            Boone County
                         women wanted out; they encouraged their children's education and hoped
                        that they would not enter farming.
               
                  110 Joan Jensen, Loosening the Bonds, quotations 207.
                        Jensen is the most prolific scholar on rural American women. In addition to her work on
                        mid-Atlantic farm women, Jensen has written extensively on historiographical issues and on rural
                        women in 
                            New Mexico
                        . Jensen's other publications on rural women include: With
                            These Hands: Women Working on the Land (
                     Old
                            Westbury, N.Y.
                  , 1981), a
                        collection of primary sources; Jensen and Darlis A. Miller, eds., 
                     
                                New Mexico
                             Women: Intercultural Perspectives (Albuquerque, 1986), and Promise to the Land: Essays on Rural Women (Albuquerque, 1991), a collection of
                        several new and previously published essays on rural women. See also Jensen, "The Role
                        of Farm Women in American History: Areas for Additional Research," Agriculture and Human Values, II (Winter, 1985), 13–17. Other articles of
                        interest in this special issue of Agriculture and Human Values are Peggy J.
                        Ross, "A Commentary on Research on American Farm-women," 19–30;
                        Carolyn Sachs, "Women's Work in the U.S.: Variations by Regions,"
                        31–39; and Jane Knowles, "Science and Farm Women's Work: The
                        Agrarian Origins of Home Economics Extension," 52–55.
               
                  111 Osterud, Bonds of Community, quotations 278, 279.
               
                  112 Mary Neth, "Building the Base: Farm Women, the Rural
                        Community, and Farm Organizations in the Midwest, 1900–1940," in Women and Farming: Changing Roles, Changing Structures, ed. Wava G. Haney and
                        Jane B. Knowles (
                     Boulder, Colo.
                  , 1988), quotations 340, 341. This book is a
                        collection of papers delivered at the Second American Farm Women in Historical Perspective
                        Conference held in 
                     Madison, Wisconsin
                  , in 1987. Neth's work is drawn from
                        her dissertation, "Preserving the Family Farm: Farm Families and Communities in the
                        Middle West, 1900–1940" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1987). Sarah Elbert and Gould P. Cole-man began a study of decision making in farm
                        families in 
                            New York
                         in 1977. Elbert also argues in support of an integration model: "The
                        family system and the farm system are integrated, and women's productive and
                        reproductive work cannot be neatly separated without losing the holistic reality of farm
                        families, family farms, and their location in a world system." Sarah Elbert,
                        "The Challenge of Research on Women," The Rural Sociologist,
                        I (No. 6, 1981), 387–90, quotation 388.
               
               
                  113 Those interested in rural women's history in general and
                        Indiana in particular owe an enormous debt to Eleanor Arnold and members of the Indiana
                        Extension Homemakers Association for undertaking their oral history project with rural Indiana
                        homemakers in the early 1980s. Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, a six-volume
                        series edited by Arnold, is a rich source of data on the experiences of rural Indiana women,
                        especially for the period between 1890 and 1940. The books offer compelling proof of the merits
                        of oral history in furnishing details about the lives of rural women, families, and communities,
                        details rarely covered in written accounts. The actual interview transcripts are deposited at
                        the Indiana Historical Society and include data on the interviewees not included in the volumes:
                        birthrates, religious affiliations, ethnic backgrounds, farm or nonfarm residences, educational
                        levels, and employment histories. This information helps to explain some of the choices women
                        and their families made. The oral histories, conducted by several different individuals, vary
                        considerably in their quality. In addition to the previously cited Girlhood Days,
                            Feeding our Families, Party Lines, Pumps and Privies, and Going to
                        Club the published series consists of Eleanor Arnold, ed., Buggies and Bad
                            Times (Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, Vol. 111; [
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1985]); and Arnold, ed., Living Rich Lives (Memories of Hoosier
                            Homemakers, Vol. VI; [
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1990]). For longer discussions of these works see Barbara J. Steinson, "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers: A Review Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (June, 1990), 196–222; and
                        Steinson, review of Living Rich Lives, by Eleanor Arnold, ibid., LXXXVIII (March, 1992), 56–60. Arnold has also edited a collection of
                        oral histories from the National Extension Homemakers Council oral history project, Voices of American Homemakers (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1985). The entire series has been republished by Indiana University Press.
               
                  114 Barbara J. Steinson, "Women and Rural Communities in Early
                        Twentieth Century Indiana" (Paper delivered at the Indiana Historical Society Annual
                        Meeting; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , November 2, 1991).
               
                  115 Marilyn Kluger recalled, "Mother's objective was to
                        buy a total amount of groceries costing less than the amount of money due her in trade for the
                        eggs and roosters." This trading required careful calculations on her part, with the
                        leftover cash comprising her "egg money." Kluger, Country
                            Kitchens Remembered: A Memoir with Favorite Family Recipes (
                            New York
                        , 1986), 21–22. Others received "due bills" from town
                        merchants for their "butter and egg money." One 
                            Decatur County
                         woman born in 1890 remembered that her mother was "never given any money
                        back at the store. But she gave us a due bill. Then you could apply the due bill the next time
                        you went back to the store on whatever you had to buy then." Arnold, Feeding our Families, 104.
               
                  116 Arnold, Living Rich Lives, 230.
               
                  117
                  Ibid., 228.
            
         
         
         
            Classicist on the Middle Border
            Lawrence Poston*
            
            On June 17, 1912, Harold Whetstone Johnston, fifty-three, professor and head of Latin at Indiana
                    University since 1895, spent a day in 
                        Indianapolis
                     transacting miscellaneous business. He met with a friend to discuss bringing the 1913
                    convention of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South to that city, dropped by the
                    office of a political acquaintance, Governor Thomas R. Marshall, and confirmed his intention of
                    stepping down as chairman of the Board of Control of Athletics at Indiana. Late in the afternoon he
                    caught a train on the Vandalia line to Gosport where he changed to the Monon train for 
                        Bloomington
                    . Apparently in good spirits he seated himself jauntily on the railing enclosing the
                    observation platform of the chair car and chatted with two friends about the possibility that an old
                    friend from his undergraduate days at Illinois College, William Jennings Bryan, would be the nominee
                    of the Democratic convention in 
                        Baltimore
                    . He complained of thirst, however, and at one point declared, "I feel like I
                    am burning up inside." Suddenly he lurched forward over the rail; the two friends pulled
                    him back, narrowly averting his fall from the train, and laid him on the floor of the smoking
                    compartment at the rear of the car. Passengers attempted to revive him, but by the time the train
                    received special orders to stop at Ellettsville for a physician, it was too late for professional
                        assistance.1
            
            The news of Johnston's death stunned the still relatively small and close-knit academic
                    community at 
                        Bloomington
                    . Reached by 
                  
                     * Lawrence Poston is professor of English, University of 
                                Illinois
                             at 
                                Chicago
                            . He extends grateful thanks to the following for signal assistance: Michael
                            Alexander, Department of History, University of 
                                Illinois
                             at 
                                Chicago
                            ; Iver F. Yeager, Scarborough professor emeritus of religion and philosophy,
                            Illinois College, 
                                Jacksonville
                            ; W. Michael Westbrook, special collectiodarchives librarian, Schewe Library,
                            Illinois College; the staff of the 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Society, 
                                Springfield
                            ; Reann Lydick, Indiana Room librarian, 
                                Monroe County
                             Public Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; Chris Bob-bitt, curator of collections, 
                                Monroe County
                             Historical Museum, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; Mary Ross Daniels and Dinah Daniels, 
                        Albuquerque, New
                            Mexico
                     ; Richard S. Simons, vice-president, National Railway Historical
                            Society, 
                                Marion
                            , Indiana; Thomas Male-fatto, Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; and in particular Faye E. Mark, Indiana University Archives, whose help was
                            enthusiastic and unstinting.
                  
                     1 The narrative of Harold Whetstone Johnston's last day and
                            events immediately subsequent to his death is drawn compositely from the 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Daily Telephone and the 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Evening World for June 18 and 19, 1912.
               
                     telephone, President William Lowe Bryan ordered that the body
                    be conveyed to a funeral home to allow time for the news to be broken to Johnston's wife
                    and eight children. Funeral arrangements were set at Trinity Episcopal Church, where Johnston had
                    been an active layman, and the bishop of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was scheduled to officiate. A special faculty meeting convened on June 18 and passed a
                    resolution warmly describing Johnston's "many years of efficient service"
                    and his "gift of fellowship." All celebrations connected with Commencement were
                    called off.
            Yet another shock was to follow. Because of Johnston's complaints of pain prior to his
                    death, authorities suspected ptomaine poisoning and made the decision to check the contents of his
                    stomach so that his family could collect on his accident insurance. A large quantity of cyanide was
                    discovered. As the coroner reconstructed the episode, Johnston had planned to hide evidence of his
                    intentions by falling from the moving train, thus deflecting attention to the serious neck or skull
                    injuries that would have undoubtedly resulted. Further inquiries revealed that two weeks before his
                    death Johnston had obtained cyanide from a custodian of the chemistry building on campus by telling
                    him he needed to kill a dog and had made inquiries of a colleague in the Chemistry Department to
                    establish how much prussic acid a man could take without the dose proving fatal. Incredibly, the
                    colleague does not seem to have inquired as to the reason for Johnston's interest.
            Who was Harold Whetstone Johnston, and what circumstances led to his end? His career was illustrative
                    of one kind of faculty profile in American higher education at the turn of the century, particularly
                    among the institutions that sprang up in the Midwest when it was still a frontier. As a classicist
                    in that post-frontier culture, Johnston faced the challenge of justifying the usefulness of the
                    humanistic tradition at a time when the primacy of the classics was coming under attack and the
                    Morrill Act had set American land-grant universities unmistakably on a new public service mission.
                    His devotion to the tripartite role of teacher, scholar, and academic citizen not only reflected
                    many of the same tensions and compromises of academic life that are seen today but also an attitude
                    toward his professional responsibilities that some might argue is less common than it once was. Not
                    an academic climber, even by the more relaxed standards of that day, he spent his entire career in
                    two adjacent states yet traveled widely in the service of both his profession and his university.
                    And the trajectory of his career has about it something of both classical tragedy and modern pathos.
            Born in 
                  Rushville, Illinois
               , on March 18, 1859, to DeWitt Clinton Johnston, Schuyler
                    County judge, and Margaretta Johnston (née Bauer), Johnston lost his father to a
                    mysterious illness, described in the newspaper as a form of paralysis, when he was not  yet seven years old.2 In 1875 he enrolled as a
                    student at Illinois College in 
                        Jacksonville
                    , about forty miles to the southeast of his hometown. Then nearing the end of its second
                    quarter century, Illinois College was the oldest continuously operating degree-granting institution
                    of higher learning in the state and one of the so-called "Yale band" of colleges
                    in the Midwest whose intellectual and spiritual roots, including a commitment to the antislavery
                    movement, lay in the Northeast.3 Sixty men were enrolled in the college in
                    Johnston's first year, and in 1879, the year he graduated, the catalog listed eighty-seven
                    undergraduates. The backbone of the curriculum was still classics, Latin being required for the
                    first three years and Greek for all four.
            At Illinois College Johnston was a baseball enthusiast with belletristic ambitions. He was one of the
                    founders of the literary magazine, the Illinois College Rambler, and also
                    participated in debate. His column, "Locals," had a low-keyed humor that, unlike
                    much collegiate joking, still retains some of its original flavor. In 1879 he became college
                    valedictorian, and his commencement oration, "An Essay on Communism," evidences
                    nothing that would offend the sensibilities of conservative midwestern ears.4
                    The annual "portrait" of the graduates describes him as "the greatest
                    light" of his class, and a contemporary, Edward Capps, after 1907 a professor of classics
                    at 
                        Princeton
                    , remembered at the time of Johnston's death that "as an undergraduate
                    he had probably read more extensively in the classical authors than the average undergraduate today
                    who ‘specializes’ in Greek and Latin."5
            
            After graduation Johnston took a trip to the western prairies, where his brother had a stock ranch
                    near 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               , but he did not last out the year; the following March the campus
                    was informed that he would enter that fall upon the duties of tutor, an uncommon distinction for an
                    Illinois College graduate under any conditions but particularly for one who was less than a year out
                    of school. Shortly thereafter Johnston was appointed principal of the Whipple Academy, the
                    preparatory school attached to the college. At Whipple he set about strengthening the classical
                    course to a point where it was declared by local authority to be the equivalent of the leading
                    eastern prep schools. At the time of his departure from Illinois College, Johnston looked back on
                    his service to the 
                  
                     2 The 
                        Rushville,
                                    Ill.
                     , Schuyler
                                Citizen, January 31, 1866.
                  
                     3 Background on Illinois College in this period is drawn from Charles
                            Henry Rammelkamp, Illinois College: A Centennial History,
                            1829–1929 (
                        New Haven,
                                    Conn.
                     , 1928), passim. A vivid picture of the education then in place at the college is found in
                            George R. Poage, "College Career of William Jennings Bryan," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XV (September,
                            1928), 165–82.
                  
                     4 Illinois College Rambler, May-June, 1879.
                  
                     5 Edward Capps, "Harold Whetstone Johnston," The Classical Journal, VIII (October, 1912), 4–6.
               
                    
                    
                  HAROLD WHETSTONE JOHNSTON AS
                            AN UNDERGRADUATE
                            AT ILLINOIS COLLEGE, JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS
                  
                  Office of Development and Alumni Relations, Illinois College, 
                        Jacksonville, Illinois
                     .
                academy as the best he had rendered to his alma mater. Whether or not his assessment was
                    correct, his service as principal of Whipple lasted only four years, for in 1884 he became a
                    full-time college faculty member. He distinguished himself in both roles as a firm if not stern
                    taskmaster. One issue of the Rambler in 1883 noted that Johnston had
                    "found that the study hall can be successfully used as a prison, and when a member of his
                    flock fails to decline stella, he is held in durance vile until he has mastered
                    the declension."6 But Johnston was also aware that an important end of
                    education was the production of useful citizens, and he cautioned his audience of small-town and
                    farm boys not to "get so deeply immersed in Latin 
                  
                     6 Illinois College Rambler, October 20, 1883.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHNSTON AS
                            AN ILLINOIS COLLEGE FACULTY MEMBER
                  
                  Courtesy Dinah Daniels.
               
                     and Greek as to forget that you are a nineteenth century
                        American."7 Grammar was merely a tool, albeit a necessary one, to
                    the discovery of a past civilization.
            For the next decade Johnston spent a quiet life as an instructor, quondam baseball player and coach
                    (in colleges of that era faculty and students often played together in intercollegiate sports), and
                    citizen of 
                        Jacksonville
                    . In 1882 he married Eugenia Hinrichsen, a student at the nearly female academy, whose
                    brother, William H. Hinrichsen, was subsequently to serve as secretary of state under Governor John
                    P. Altgeld and as a one-term congressman. The Johnstons built a house on College Hill on the west
                    side of the campus, and their first five children were born in 
                        Jacksonville
                    .8
            
            Because of his sound learning and respectable habits, Johnston might have stayed at Illinois College
                    forever. In 1882 the school awarded him an M.A. for additional studies and in 1891 a Ph.D.9 In 1892, however, Johnston's edition of Cicero's letters and
                    orations for the first time brought his name to the attention of a wider professional audience. The
                    book established his lifelong connection with the firm of Scott, Foresman & Company in 
                        Chicago
                    . And Johnston seems to have become increasingly restive in the environment of a small
                    liberal arts college. The pay was poor, and the life of a professor at such a college was a fishbowl
                    existence, subject to continuing inspection and appraisal by students, colleagues, and community.
                    Thus, when in the fall of 1894 President Joseph Swain of Indiana University extended the offer of an
                    interview, Johnston felt little hesitation. Though Illinois College seems to have countered with the
                    offer of the position of dean of faculty, it was not sufficient to retain him.10
                    The next spring, packing his bags for 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., March 4, 1882.
                  
                     8 Illinois College Rambler, April 1, 1882 (reporting
                            the marriage); on the Hinrichsens see the entry for William Henry Hinrichsen in Historical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , ed. Newton Bateman and Paul Selby, with History of 
                                    Morgan County
                                
                     , ed. William F. Short (
                                Chicago
                            , 1906), 853–55. These two volumes are bound together and paged
                            consecutively.
                  
                     9 According to Rammelkamp, the college awarded the M.A. for continuing
                            studies and, though rarely, the Ph.D. honoris causa to distinguished
                            alumni. Rammelkamp, Illinois College, 246. His statement on the latter
                            degree varies somewhat from the language of the college catalog to the effect that the
                            doctorate was conferred upon those who had been engaged for at least two years in special
                            studies followed by an examination and thesis. Catalogue of Illinois College
                                and Whipple Academy: Sirty-third Year, 1891–1892 (
                                Jacksonville
                            , 1891), 28. Professor Iver F. Yeager, who has kindly had the records of the
                            Illinois College trustees checked for me by the staff of the president's office,
                            has confirmed that the original minutes state no reason for the award of the degree. A view
                            expressed in the Rambler was that it was "the fitting result
                            of& [Johnston's] earnest labor for the good of Illinois College"
                            and "his eminent scholarly attainments." Illinois College Rambler, June 27, 1891.
                  
                     10 In a letter to G. H. Wilson dated December 9, 1894, Johnston wrote
                            that he could not attach much importance to such an offer inasmuch as the college
                            "notoriously does not keep its promises." Quoted in 
                                Rammelkamp
                            , Illinois College, 389. I have not succeeded in tracing the
                            original of this letter, nor does Rammelkamp comment on Johnston's charge. Johnston
                            presumably believed that on previous occasions the administration had reneged on
                            counteroffers.
               
                     he expressed his frustrations, comparing the college of his own
                    day with the college he had known as a youth and listing a number of the faculty who had departed
                    for greener pastures. In a valedictory piece for the college annual, he declared: "Far more
                    is required of a professor in Illinois College today than was required twenty years ago, and he is
                    paid less. This change threatens the very perpetuity of the college."11
            
            Johnston's new title at Indiana was head of the Latin Department. In those days department
                    heads were heads, not chairs, and were likely to remain in that position for many
                    years, sometimes attaining a great deal more authority than deans. At Indiana, at least under
                    Swain's successor, Bryan, they in effect served as the president's cabinet on
                    university matters.12 Furthermore, as Johnston realized, the headship often
                    involved an extension of duties well beyond the campus. Even before his arrival he wrote to
                    President Swain asking for catalog offprints of the description of the Latin program for use in the
                    schools. "It is likely that I shall have to do a good deal of correspondence with high
                    schools and colleges if my department is to grow any in the next few years, and a statement that can
                    be enclosed in an envelope with a personal letter is more apt to be effective.
                        &"13 The remark forecasts accurately a significant portion
                    of his duties in 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            
               
                        Bloomington
                    , like 
                        Jacksonville
                    , was only a generation or two removed from frontier-town status. Unpaved roads in town
                    and on campus made traveling a slow progress through a quagmire in wet weather, and as late as 1902
                    President Bryan rode to his office on horseback encased in leggings to keep off the mud. Shortages
                    of drinking water during periods of drought meant contaminated drinking supplies, and epidemics of
                    typhoid and smallpox were not unknown. Beneath the inauspicious appearance of things, however, the
                    university was, like the nation, in transition from an agrarian to an industrial environment. Swain
                    began his administration with a faculty of forty-two, the largest in the university's
                    history to that point, and a student body which, several hundred in number at the time, was to pass
                    the thousand mark in 1902 and more than double to 2,564 in 1909–1910. A grudging
                    legislature ill-equipped to 
                  
                     11 Harold W. Johnston, "The Changes of Twenty
                            Years," Illinois College Rig-Veda, II (1896), 56–60.
                  
                     12 For this point and other aspects of Indiana University at the turn
                            of the century, see Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern
                            Pioneer; Vol. I, The Early Years (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970); and Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer;
                            Vol. II, In Mid-Passage (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1973).
                  
                     13 Harold W. Johnston to Joseph Swain, March 9, 1895, Indiana
                            University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            . The bulk of Johnston's surviving correspondence at Indiana is filed
                            in the archives either under his name for 1894–1897 or under that of the
                            Department of Latin, which contains a number of his annual reports to the president. #en the
                            textual reference includes the date of the letter, no footnote has been appended.
               
                     understand the needs of higher education did not facilitate the
                    tasks of either Swain or Bryan, and issues of space and physical resources show up more than once as
                    a theme of Johnston's tenure as head of Latin.
            The work of the Department of Latin was described as giving students an accurate knowledge both of
                    Roman civilization and of their own. Though only a small number proceeded to what later would be
                    called a major, the courses, according to a description prepared under Johnston's
                    supervision, were "arranged with the idea of making even the earliest work of interest and
                    practical value to the student." Described as a six-year curriculum for those proceeding to
                    the M.A., the full program was divided into four years of foundation courses for majors and other
                    students satisfying the language requirement; two more, designed for a small number of graduate
                    students, involved the mastery of research techniques in philology. One component of the second
                    (sophomore) year was a lecture on the private life of the Romans, an innovation that probably bore
                    Johnston's hand.14
            
            Johnston joined a department that consisted of an assistant professor and two instructors. One of
                    them, Charles Henry Beeson, went on to graduate work at 
                        Munich
                     in 1907 and a successful career at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . From 
                        Jacksonville
                    , Johnston brought with him a young product of Whipple Academy, Edgar H. Sturtevant, who
                    had taken two years of undergraduate work at Illinois College and was to receive his B.A. at Indiana
                    and his Ph.D. at 
                        Chicago
                     prior to a long and distinguished service at 
                        Columbia
                     and Yale. Johnston's first report to the president expresses his pleasure with
                    his new colleagues and takes pains to single out Sturtevant (who was shortly thereafter involved in
                    tutoring students junior to him) as a man of "more than ordinary scholarship and good
                    sense." The four members of the department were teaching, by headcount, 117 undergraduates
                    and two graduate students, with Johnston directing the work of the latter and teaching the basic
                    course to 43 on the principle that it was "always well for the freshman to meet the most
                    experienced instructor &."15 He struggled with students of
                    diverse backgrounds and levels of preparation and sought support for a library barely adequate to
                    sustain teaching needs, much less serve as a research collection. For Johnston—as his
                    surviving annual reports to Swain and later to Bryan make clear—a classicist's
                    laboratory was the library. To his first report Johnston attached a long list of
                    reference works that had to be purchased if the library were to fulfill the needs of even advanced
                    undergraduates— 
                  
                     14 Samuel Bannister Harding, ed., Indiana University,
                                1820–1904: Historical Sketch, Development of the Course of Instruction,
                                Bibliography (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1904), 77–79, quotation 78.
                  
                     15 Johnston to Swain, undated but by internal evidence late fall or
                            early winter 1895–1896.
               
                     a communication that suggests the level of administrative
                    detail in which a university president in those days might be involved.
            Although his publications were largely teaching-related, Johnston's professional visibility
                    continued to increase after his move to Indiana University. Following the edition of Cicero
                    published while he was still at Illinois College, Johnston had in 1894 revised the Lowe-Ewing
                    edition of Caesar's Gallic Wars and had become editorial supervisor of
                    the intercollegiate Latin Series at Scott, Foresman. The publisher offered to print
                    Johnston's lectures on Vergil's metrical licenses at no cost for distribution to
                    teachers in the state. Johnston also carried on an increasingly busy travel schedule. One annual
                    report, after commenting on the improvement in student quality and the publication of the lectures
                    on Latin manuscripts that he had delivered in the summer schools, went on to note that he had
                    lectured at 
                  Fort Wayne, Huntington, Wabash, Peru, Logansport, Lafayette
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     high schools. An undated itinerary from around the turn of the century shows seventeen
                    days of rail travel to 
                  Monticello, Crown Point, Goshen,
                            Elkhart
               , LaGrange, 
                  Columbia City, Valparaiso,
                            South Bend, Rochester, Rensselaer, Fort Wayne
               , and Delphi, with only a brief break between
                    trains in 
                        Chicago
                    . In the six-week summer session of 1901 Johnston offered three courses per day, one of
                    them intended especially for high school teachers. By this time his reputation in the schools was
                    secured. On October 27, 1898, he wrote to Swain, "I had an opportunity this summer to meet
                    with some of the teachers of Latin in eleven counties, and in four I had conferences with the men
                    and women who are teaching the one or two years' work that is offered in the township
                    schools. I found everywhere recognition of the work of this department, and on the whole agreement
                    with our ideas of the proper direction and scope of work in the school." This interest
                    remained constant throughout his career; a decade later he was writing to President Bryan asking for
                    an increase in faculty and citing the competition at 
                        Wabash
                    , DePauw, and Earlham: "It is absolutely necessary that Latin given to freshmen
                    here should be as good as is given elsewhere in the state."16
            
            As he had been at Illinois College, so at Indiana Johnston was a tireless publicist both for high
                    standards and for the fun of classical education. A paper delivered to the Classical Section of the
                    Indiana State Teachers Association at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the turn of the century reflects at least faintly the kind of lecturer he must have
                    been, whatever may be lost in cold print. Johnston discussed the forms that the teacher of Vergil
                    needed to emphasize in any session devoted to poetical usage. At this point in the
                    student's career, he suggested, one should 
                  
                     16 Johnston to William Lowe Bryan, March 2, 1908.
               
                    
                    
                        take for granted the ordinary prose constructions, and the teacher should notice those only
                            that the translation or the scanning shows to have been misunderstood by the pupil.
                            & Such things as the ablative of means, agent, absolute, specification, the dative
                            of possessor, agent, indirect object, may surely be passed now as we pass a friend whom we
                            meet a dozen times a day, with a smile of recognition but without stopping to shake hands.
                            It is intolerable to find these things harped on so late in the course in books otherwise
                            good. If Greenough lets a single ablative of means in the first book go by without a chat
                            and a smoke I have failed to notice it. & If the pupil still halts on these things
                            after three years' drill in lessons, composition, Caesar and Cicero, it is too late
                            to help him. He was either naturally dull on the language side and ought to have dropped
                            Latin long ago, or he has been poorly taught and the superintendent ought to drop the
                            teacher now. If the pupil is trying to read Vergil without these three years of preparation
                            the Board ought to drop the superintendent. Something must drop somewhere.17
                  
                     In another lecture, delivered at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     the following year, Johnston asked what was so wrong with the teaching of Latin in the
                    schools that the failure rate was almost as high in the second year as in the first. After examining
                    the state of teacher education and the curriculum, he declared that Latin teachers too often were
                    imprecise in their assignments and capricious in their emphasis in the classroom. In one case that
                    he had personally observed, he complained, the teacher stressed something different in each of three
                    successive recitations of the same material. In the second class one girl, he reported indignantly,
                    had been driven to tears 
                        because she could not explain, or rather name, the use of moribus in
                            chapter iv of the first book, though she knew it was an ablative and had translated it
                            correctly. I suppose she was naturally dull. I forgot the name myself before I got home and
                            took the trouble to look it up; one grammar called it the ablative of attendant
                            circumstances, another the ablative of cause, another the ablative of specification, another
                            the ablative absolute. I am waiting with interest for the coming of the great grammar, in
                            order to find out for certain what the little dunce was crying about.
                     Warming to this theme, he insisted that the source of the difficulty lay in "hazy,
                    indefinite, and shifting methods of teaching." To such methods "I charge the
                    positive aversion felt for Latin by many good but slow students. They are not so questioned in any
                    other recitations. It was not good pedagogy, as I look at it, to make that little girl
                    cry." He admonished his audience not to "make a little tin god of the word
                    ‘thoroughness’" and to be grateful if a pupil "translates an
                    ablative correctly even if he can't name it; you cannot name the first hundred ablatives in
                    Caesar the same way twice in succession, and neither could Caesar."18
            
            
               
                  17 Harold W. Johnston, The Teaching of Vergil in High
                        Schools (Address delivered to Classical Section, Indiana State Teachers Association at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , December 28, 1900; 
                            Chicago
                        , 1901), 10–11.
               
                  18 Harold W. Johnston, "The Teaching of Second-Year
                        Latin," School Review, X (January, 1902), 69–76,
                        quotations 71, 72, 74, 76. This lecture was given to the Fifteenth Educational Conference of the
                        Academies and High Schools Affiliated or Cooperating with the University of 
                            Chicago
                        , November, 1901.
            
            
            Throughout his career Johnston was concerned not only with the quality of teaching in the secondary
                    schools but also with the link between the study of Latin there and in college. In the introduction
                    to one of his monographs, Latin Manuscripts, he described the genesis of the book
                    as lectures that he had given at the 1896 summer session of Indiana University to the
                    Teachers' Class on Paleography, Hermeneutics, and Criticism. He expressed the hope that his
                    volume would contain "all that students in High Schools and in the lower classes of
                    Colleges will need in order to understand the critical notes found in the text books commonly used
                    by these classes."19 Divided into sections on the history of Latin
                    manuscripts, the science of paleography, and issues in textual criticism, the work is executed at a
                    level that by any measure would seem staggeringly sophisticated to a secondary teacher of Latin or a
                    high school student today. It also evidences an impatience with scholarly animosity of the sort all
                    too common in philological circles. Editors, Johnston wrote, might reasonably vary in their
                    applications of rules of textual evidence, and "it was the failure to recognize the
                    reasonableness of many of these differences of opinion that caused the bitter feeling of the older
                    critics toward each other personally, a feeling that still finds vent occasionally in our
                    philological journals and reviews." With the spread of "improved methods of
                    pictorial reproduction," Johnston looked forward to the eventual extinction of such
                    in-house wrangles.20
            
            Johnston's own bibliography, as it stood in an Indiana University publication of 1904,
                    evidences no obviously "original" research.21 His energies,
                    rather, were devoted to transmitting the results of research to Latin teachers and students. His
                    major publication, The Private Life of the Romans, for years enjoyed currency as a
                    text in the schools, and the title still evokes a flicker of recognition among classicists. Its
                    intended audiences, according to the preface, included high school seniors and college freshmen who
                    needed help in understanding references in Latin texts, more advanced college students who needed a
                    text to accompany lectures on Roman society, and finally "readers and students of Roman
                    history, who are engaged chiefly with important political and constitutional questions, and often
                    feel the need of a simple and compact description of domestic life, to give more reality to the
                    shadowy forms whose public careers they are following."22 Johnston then
                    leads his readers through such topics as family, marriage, children 
                  
                     19 Harold W. Johnston, Latin Manuscripts: An Elementary
                                Introduction to the Use of Critical Editions for High School and College Classes (
                                Chicago
                            , 1897), 7.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 109, 121.
                  
                     21 Harding, Indiana University, 214–15.
                  
                     22 Harold W. Johnston, The Private Life of the
                            Romans (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903; reprint, 
                        Freeport,
                                    N.Y.
                     , 1972), 5. All page
                            references are to the reprint edition.
               
                     and education, dependents, slaves and clients, the home,
                    personal ornament and food, amusements, travel, sources of income, and burial places and funeral
                    ceremonies, whereat the book abruptly ends.
            The style is lucid and unadorned, the tone for the most part dispassionate, except in the chapter on
                    slavery, in which Johnston gives voice to sentiments worthy of a western 
                        Illinois
                     abolitionist: "Ruinous as were the economic results of slavery, the moral
                    effects were no less destructive." In his recitation of the ways in which slaves pandered
                    to the appetites and ministered to the luxuries of their masters, Johnston traces that decline of
                    Roman character which he believes led to the fall of the empire. Although he states that the more
                    fiendish tortures reported in Roman society are "no more characteristic of the ordinary
                    correction of slaves than lynching and whitecapping are characteristic of the administration of
                    justice in 
                        Georgia
                     and Indiana," the potential for cruelty in the Roman system is in no way
                    underrated. In his later years in 
                        Bloomington
                    , it is worth noting, Johnston was to serve as foreman of a jury that convicted several
                    "whitecappers" who singled out offenders for vigilante justice of their own,
                    and—in a day and place where the only requirements for the practice of law were a minimum
                    age of twenty-one and good moral character—he was also to be admitted to the bar, though
                    he seems never to have practiced. Perhaps, on some obscure level, his application was a tribute to
                    the father he had hardly known.23
            
            Another area in which Johnston remained perpetually active as university citizen was that of
                    athletics. Manager of the baseball team at Illinois College, he was elected to the same position
                    within one year after his arrival in 
                        Bloomington
                    , a fact that elicited the relief of a writer for the student newspaper who enthused,
                    "at last the management has gone into the hands of the faculty."24 A little more than a month before Johnston's death, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star carried a major story on his career as a faculty watchdog of athletics. The
                    article reported Johnston's pending retirement from the chairmanship of the Big Eight
                    Conference and characterized him as 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 87, 106. Johnston's service on the jury, along with that
                            of several other faculty members, is recorded in Elisabeth Johnston Yager, "Harold
                            Whetstone Johnston and Eugenia Hinrichsen Johnston," undated and unpaginated
                            typescript in my possession. I have not found a press account and thus cannot establish a
                            date for the trial. One of Johnston's children reportedly recalled an iceman making
                            his last delivery before leaving for the penitentiary and telling Mrs. Johnston, "I
                            don't know why the doc did this to me. I was his sponsor at the Elks Club. But then
                            he was from away and didn't understand our ways." Yager typescript. On
                            corruption in 
                                Monroe County
                             see Louis E. Lambert, "The Indiana State Board of Accounts,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LV (June, 1959), 114–15; for a
                            more general overview of whitecapping, including a 1911 case, see Howard H. Peckham, Indiana: A Bicentennial History (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 90–92.
                  
                     24 Indiana University Student, May 26, 1896.
               
                     the "dean of athletics" at Indiana. At the
                    university he had served as a member of the faculty committee on athletics for some sixteen years.
                    He had overseen the admission of the school to the Western Conference (the predecessor of the Big
                    Eight) in 1899 and as conference chairman had been the chief proponent for the admission of 
                        Ohio State
                     to membership in April, 1912. He had helped to lay out 
                        Jordan
                     Field, raised money to erect the grandstand on the campus, put an end to the
                    solicitation of 
                        Bloomington
                     residents and faculty members for donations to the program, and in the words of the
                    reporter, "fought successfully for a purely faculty control of athletics at the
                        university."25 He brought about a separation of intramural and
                    intercollegial athletics at Indiana University, a move that resulted in the abolition of the
                    position of director of athletics; and he rigidly enforced standards for eligibility, though he had
                    also opposed what he felt to be unnecessarily stringent rules preventing student athletes from
                    earning money from their game during the summer. And he had a fan's eye for the details of
                    the game while remaining realistic and principled about institutional priorities. When in 1910 Ralph
                    C. "Skel" Roach, the baseball coach, demanded a substantial increase in salary,
                    Johnston said that he would coach the team himself rather than allow such a commitment.26 The 1909 Arbutus, Indiana University's yearbook,
                    observed that "athletics and athletes have never had a more loyal friend than Prof.
                    Johnston, familiarly known as ‘Doc.’ His tall, gaunt figure has featured
                    scheduled and practice games of all sorts here for years, and the trips to foreign fields for
                    victory are few that have not known ‘Doc's’ accompaniment of
                    inimitable wit and peculiarly inspiring words of encouragement." He "has often
                    applied the pruning knife and always with that firm kindness that left no sting and maintained our
                    high record for clean athletics."27
            
            In his last trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     Johnston told statehouse friends of his attempt to encourage James M. Sheldon to return
                    from 
                        Chicago
                     to Indiana to resume coaching the Indiana football team. He felt the coaching system
                    needed stability. But he also reiterated his intention of withdrawing from active participation in
                    the control of athletics at Indiana, reportedly saying, "I'm getting too far
                    advanced in years to take the knocks and criticisms that inevitably come to the chairman of the
                    board of control. & I have fought for a good many years to see athletics reach the highest
                    plane possible in the colleges of today, and I hope my efforts have not been in vain."28
            
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 7, 1912.
               
                  26 The incident is recounted by Clark, Indiana
                        University, II, 185.
               
                  27 Indiana University Arbutus (1909), 193.28 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Evening World, June 18, 1912.
               
                  28
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Evening World, June 18, 1912.
            
            
            
               JOHNSTON AS SATIRIZED
                        IN
                        THE 1908 ARBUTUS
                  , THE
                            INDIANA UNIVERSITY YEARBOOK
               
               THE DRAWING IS SIGNED
                        BY DON HEROLD, WHO
                            SUBSEQUENTLY PURSUED
                        A CAREER AS WRITER
                        AND CARTOONIST
                        WITH
                        LIFE
                  
                        AND ELSEWHERE.
            
            With his duties of teaching and departmental administration and his travel both as a classicist and
                    as a faculty overseer of intercollegiate athletics, Johnston gave himself unstintingly to Indiana,
                    as indeed he had to Illinois College. In one of his annual reports to Swain he stated his
                    willingness to be "at the disposal of the president for work during the spring
                    vacation," a pledge it is virtually impossible to imagine many faculty members gratuitously
                    offering today.29 During Johnston's tenure at Illinois College the Rambler had published a criticism of faculty members who had absented themselves
                    from the "rhetoricals" competition. Johnston, in a rare 
                  
                     29 Johnston to Swain, October 18, 1896.
               
                    
                    
                  Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                abandonment of the wise policy that faculty members ought not to write to the student
                    press, was unable to contain his hurt at this unaccustomed censure. What faculty members did with
                    their spare time, he declared, was their business as long as their conduct was irreproachable.
                    "I venture to say that the members of no other college faculty in 
                        Illinois
                     give as liberally of their thought, their time, their money, to ‘college
                    exercises’ outside of the work which they have severally contracted to perform, as do the
                    members of Illinois College," he wrote. "When anyone shall have shown me that in
                    this respect I am doing less than others do, I shall immediately amend my ways—always,
                    however, reserving the right to determine for myself, with the advice of my seniors, the channels in
                    which this increased activity shall flow."30
            
            At Indiana questions about what faculty members did with their time came from another quarter. In
                    1897 and again in 1900 
                  
                     30 Illinois College Rambler, December 18,
                        1886.
               
                     members of the Board of Trustees made inquiries into faculty
                    workload, the second time in the form of the appointment of a special committee convened in March to
                    investigate the matter and report back in June. On both occasions Swain sought information from his
                    department heads, and Johnston's responses on both occasions have been preserved. The
                    second is the fuller and more vivid of the two. It begins with the statement that Johnston is
                    teaching two hours a day, "less & than usual by one or two hours a week"
                    because of ill health. It is impossible, he writes, to estimate the number of hours a day devoted to
                    study, but he believes that three hours would be a fair estimate, not taking into account the
                    reading and, in his own case, the need to devise textbooks for an area in which they were not
                    available. Perhaps fifteen hours have gone into a single lecture, he estimates, for "it is
                    my intention to give to work connected with Latin all my time except what is needed for
                    ‘living.’ I have never been an idle man, though I like to play when I do
                        play."31
            
            Johnston's last three points warrant more extensive quotation, for while they are
                    anticipatory of much of today's debate on faculty workload, what is known of his own labor
                    makes clear that they were neither exaggerated nor self-pitying: 
                        (4) It is utterly impossible to give an estimate of the work for the university done outside
                            of the class room. Committee work takes some time: it counts chiefly in thought and anxiety.
                            Much if not all of my outside work counts directly or indirectly for the university. There
                            is hardly a school in the state in which one of my books is not used, and this counts more
                            than the preparation of lessons in the way of directing attention to the university. I have
                            a very large correspondence with teachers of Latin in all parts of the state: I have even
                            cleared up difficulties for Superintendent Study's successor in Ft. Wayne. I am in
                            the habit of attending the meetings of the State Association of Teachers at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and I think I have done more than any other one person to make the Classical
                            Section go. I would not think of spending two or three days at these meetings, were it not
                            my hope that my presence there counted for the University. I give as much time as I am asked
                            to give in the summer time during "vacation" to the visiting of
                            Institutes.
                        (5) I have not been connected with any other state university. In Illinois College I often
                            taught from fifteen to twenty hours a week, but only in cases when the work was chiefly
                            secondary. I can do four hours a day of secondary Latin with less wear and tear and fatigue
                            than one hour a day of the instruction I give to my seniors. It is not the number of hours
                            but the kind of work that counts for the university and thus the man.
                        (6) I am glad that the president has put these questions: they ought to be answered fairly
                            and fully & I do not think that I could materially increase the number of hours I
                            average in teaching—say, eleven a week—and do as good work as I am
                            doing. I think my work is good, at any rate I am willing to take the verdict of graduates as
                            to my teaching and the opinion of men in the same work as to my scholarship. I think that
                            the spirit in which a man works ought also to count. I am no kicker. I want to do my part in
                            all the university work. I try to keep on good terms with my fellows and with the students
                            too. If the trustees were to go raving mad and 
                        
                           31 Johnson to Swain, May 31, 1900.
                     
                             put my work up to fifteen hours a week I should
                            probably have to stand it—for a while—but when I gave up you would not
                            get as much good work out of my succes-sor!32
                  
                     Johnston's response, and perhaps others like it, appear to have accomplished their
                    purpose. At the June meeting of the board Swain took head-on exception to the tendency of the
                    trustees' questions by stating flatly his objection to an arbitrary rule governing teaching
                    hours: uniformity was impossible under the elective system even if it were desirable, which it was
                    not if the end in sight was to secure the loyalty of the faculty to the university. He also pointed
                    out that the teaching load at Indiana was heavier than at comparable institutions.33
            
            Johnston's own private life had not been without incident since his move to 
                        Bloomington
                    . To the four surviving children born in 
                        Jacksonville
                     were speedily added four more. All eight were to be enrolled eventually at Indiana, six
                    of them taking degrees. A positive image in the community was as much a requisite at a state
                    university as at a small liberal arts college at the turn of the century, and the student newspaper
                    carried frequent stories of Johnston's activities both on and off campus. He solemnly
                    assumed duties as a judge of jams and jellies at a local fair, and when an invited Armenian speaker
                    at Friday morning chapel failed to appear, Johnston described the nonappearance as "another
                    Armenian outrage."34 Around the campus his idiosyncracies became a
                    predictable part of the landscape. Years after his death, when the Harold Whetstone Johnston
                    Graduate Residence Hall was dedicated in the early 1970s, S. Frank Davidson, professor emeritus of
                    English, recalled seeing him often "as he mounted the steps of Science Hall smoking a big
                    cigar. Always, just before entering the door, he would take a final puff, smother the fire, and lay
                    the cigar on a stone coping."35 At the dedication ceremony an emeritus
                    trustee approached two of Johnston's surviving daughters saying, "He was my best
                    friend. I couldn't have got through without the help he gave me."36
            
            Such memories recalled a vigorous, thoughtful man whose every action carried a note of almost cocky,
                    yet friendly assurance. 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid.
                  
                     33 Clark, Indiana university, I, 336–37.
                            Another view of a classicist's workload comes from Edward B. Clapp, an Illinois
                            College alumnus, describing to 
                                Jacksonville
                             friends his teaching assignment at Yale in 1891: "I have 15 hours per
                            week as follows: First, 12 hours with sophomores in Antigone, hearing four divisions in
                            rotation so that I have three lessons to prepare per week; second, 2 hours with one junior
                            in Euripides—this is an elective, and he reads 200 to 250 lines per hour; third,
                            1 hour in Greek Testament with 27 men, juniors, seniors, and two graduate students; this,
                            too, is an elective." Illinois College Rambler, December 19,
                            1891.
                  
                     34 Indiana University Student, May 5, 1896.
                  
                     35 Frank Davidson to Charles Bellatti, October 1, 1970, Office of
                            Alumni Affairs and Public Information, Illinois College.
                  
                     36 Yager typescript, n.p.
               
                    
                    
                  AT HOME
                            IN BLOOMINGTON
                  
                  Courtesy Mary Daniels.
                But pressures were real and mounting. With a growing family the move to Indiana still did
                    not meet Johnston's financial needs. He had hardly been in 
                        Bloomington
                     six months when an offer of a faculty appointment at the then handsome sum of
                    $3,000 came from the new University of 
                        Chicago
                    . The episode makes for interesting reading as an example of turn-of-the-century faculty
                    bargaining. Indiana countered with an offer of a raise to $2,500 beginning in August,
                    1897, but made no adjustments for the forthcoming 1896–1897 academic year. Johnston, in a
                    letter to Swain, pointed out that the difference between the 
                        Chicago
                     offer and his present salary of $2,000 was $1,000 per annum. He
                    was willing to split the difference; but, because the offer had come late in the year, he had
                    offered to ask for only $2,250 in 1896–1897. "I am greatly in need of
                    money now, and I will say frankly that the $2500 for
                    1897–1898 loses much of its charm to me if I am not to have the $2250 this
                    year. I assure you that $2250 now means much more in comparison with
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     $3000 than the $2500 next year will mean."37
                    
                  
                     37 Johnston to Swain, July 29, 1896.
               
                     Johnston's argument prevailed, albeit tardily; that
                    November the board raised him to the requested sum, a move that made him the sixth highest salaried
                    person on the faculty and administrative staff.38
            
            Johnston's taste for creature comforts, already demonstrated in what were reportedly rather
                    handsome bachelor digs in 
                        Jacksonville
                    , did not abate. It seems a reasonable inference that his spending patterns varied
                    depending in part on the receipt of additional royalties and other payments from his work for Scott,
                    Foresman. He also was a hospitable man, and the scope of that hospitality as well as the size of his
                    family demanded corresponding living quarters. Visitors from elsewhere, including his college friend
                    William Jennings Bryan, frequently stayed with the Johnstons during trips to 
                        Bloomington
                    . In the early years of the century construction was begun on a new house at 814 East
                    Third Street. Entered from a Roman-style vestibule, the house was three stories in height. It
                    boasted six bedrooms on the second floor (three at the front and three at the back) and a bathroom
                    at the end. Several of the second floor bedrooms had fireplaces, and all the rooms had gas as well
                    as electric lights. In the summer the house drew many guests, and on the fourth of July Johnston
                    always set off fireworks in the front yard, which was banked high above the sidewalk. He began the
                    day's celebrations early by lighting the firecrackers from his pipe, a practice of which
                    his wife disapproved.39
            
            A superstitious observer might have seen an ill omen at the very beginning when on January 24, 1907,
                    the Indiana Student reported, "while inspecting the construction work on
                    his handsome new East Third Street residence yesterday Prof. H. W. Johnston had the misfortune to
                    fall from the first floor to the basement, wrenching and injuring his right leg severely."
                    The heavy mortgage on the house meant that Johnston had difficulty meeting other expenses. One of
                    his closest friends, John W. Cravens, registrar and for many years secretary to the Board of
                    Trustees, frequently received letters from Johnston while the latter was traveling throughout the
                    state. Cravens periodically sent Johnston advances on his paycheck, a practice not uncommon at
                    Indiana where not only were the salaries low but the payment made on a quarterly basis.40 A number of requests survive from the last twelve months of
                    Johnston's life, for example from a trip to 
                        Noblesville
                     and Anderson in September, 1911. In one scrawled postcard on September 6, 
                  
                     38 Information as to salary ranking provided by Faye Mark, Indiana
                            University Archives.
                  
                     39 Yager typescript, n.p.
                  
                     40 Clark's wry comment on this practice is that it
                            "required astute management of personal finances." Clark, Indiana university, 11, 140. Letters of the sort that Johnston wrote to Cravens
                            while traveling are apparently not uncommon in the Indiana University files of the
                        period.
               
                     Johnston advised Cravens to "watch the daily papers,
                    obituaries especially." The following day another card with grim allusiveness raised, in
                    verse, the possibility of returning to 
                        Bloomington
                     "inside a baggage car."41 In addition, Johnston
                    had begun taking out large insurance policies when he traveled. In a typical letter to Cravens
                    written on December 26, 1911, on the stationery of the Claypool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he was transferring to a train to attend a meeting of the National Collegiate
                    Athletic Association in 
                        New York
                    , Johnston stated that he had mailed him a large envelope containing an accident policy
                    for $5,000 "to hold until I come back to you safely or die in the
                    attempt." He urged Cravens to say nothing about the two policies "unless I meet
                    with an accident, in which case you will see that these two (2) and my other policies (4) are got
                    into action quick." Returning from 
                        New York
                     on the last day of the year, he wrote again, on the stationery of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad: "I have sent you the papers. I now send you a second accident policy
                    (first expired)." On June 8, 1912, a few days before his death, he wrote from the Palmer
                    House in 
                        Chicago
                    , "I mailed you at the Monon station on Thursday, a traveler's policy
                    for 3 days. The time is nearly up, for I have been kept here longer than I expected, and I therefore
                    send you another good for Sunday too." The remainder of the letter describes his
                    satisfaction at the work done, at the fact that his oldest son had decided to return to the
                    university, and that another son, Harry, was "slated for a big promotion" with
                    Scott, Foresman. Finally, he was pleased that his own royalties were on the rise, and he looked for
                    "good returns on all our Latin books next year."
            For six months at least Johnston had been trying to imagine his family and his university without
                    him. On December 23, 1911, a few days before departing for the NCAA meeting, he wrote to President
                    Bryan asking if it would be possible for the university to arrange for the payment of salaries in
                    full to the families of faculty members for the unexpired portion of the year when their death
                    occurred during the term. And then, unexpectedly, he instanced himself: 
                  
                     41 Johnston to Cravens, September 6, 7, 1911; Johnston sent no fewer
                            than three such postcards to Cravens on September 6, each one rife with the same manic
                            humor. The quotation here is taken from the following quatrain: 
                                Said Daniel in the Lions den: "The thing that I like most—
                                I will not have to answer to an after-dinner toast."
                                Said Johnston down in 
                                        Noblesville
                                    , "It ain't so awful far
                                If I go back to 
                                        Bloomington
                                     inside a baggage car."
                             Johnston's dabbling in humorous verse was publicly documented in
                            "Poems by Harold Whetstone Johnston," Indiana University Arbutus (1900), 251ff., a sequence the editors claim was given to them by
                            Johnston's youngest son. Since in 1900 the youngest son, Edward, would have been
                            only three or four, a more likely candidate may be Harry Bauer Johnston, born in
                        1890.
               
                    
                    
                        In case I myself should die during the term time I suggest that no successor should be looked
                            for in this particular position which I have filled for more than half a generation
                            & I suggest that when my place in the course of no long time becomes vacant three of
                            the present departments [Greek, Latin, and Philology] be merged into one under Professor
                            Hoffman as Head & It seems to me that with no decrease in efficiency a good many
                            dollars might be saved (more than enough to make up for the increased generosity toward men
                            who die in the harness which I have suggested above) by uniting these departments and saving
                            the salaries of two heads.
                     The last letter from Johnston in the Indiana University files is dated June 15, 1912, and
                    alludes to an upcoming teaching appointment at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     during the second half of the summer. Indicating that he had not known that the second 
                        Chicago
                     term overlapped with Indiana's first, he expresses his hope that President
                    Bryan would not object to his daughter Mary's filling the place at Indiana during the last
                    week or so. "She has the A.M. for work done here, has had one full year's work in
                    Latin and Greek (as fellow in Latin) at 
                        Chicago
                    , and has the title of Professor of Latin and Greek in the 
                        Illinois
                     Woman's College [now MacMurray] in 
                        Jacksonville
                    ." He also asked that she get the same salary, on a pro rata basis,
                    "that I should get, were I here."
            Who is to know what weighed most heavily on his mind those last days? Certainly the last extended
                    letter to Cravens was in the nature of a summing-up and valedictory, drawing assurance from the
                    projected future of the two oldest boys who would not be a burden to the widow he would leave
                    behind. The merging of three departments into one appears to have represented a realistic assessment
                    of the future of his own profession as well as an attempt to discover economies whereby tight
                    university resources might be freed for the relief of faculty families. Several days before
                    Johnston's death the building association that held the mortgage foreclosed on his Third
                    Street house with $8,000 due. The threatened loss of his home was probably the final blow
                    to a proud man, and Johnston may have calculated that he would actually leave his family better off
                    by dying. With cruel irony, however, one of the 
                        Bloomington
                     papers describing Johnston's suicide reported that "the association
                    officers would have permitted him to reduce the payments if he had so desired."42
            
            A narrative of the days after an eminent person's death often veers awkwardly between the
                    extremes of public solemnity and private anticlimax. The valedictory resolution passed by the
                    faculty was followed by other tributes: the collection of funds for named gifts at both Illinois
                    College and Indiana University; a bronze tablet unveiled in the lobby of the Indiana University
                    library in February, 1917; tributes from colleagues like Hugh M. Kingery, the classicist at 
                        Wabash
                     ("I knew Dr. Johnston well and admired greatly his brilliant 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Evening World, June 19, 1912.
               
                     mind, his profound scholarship, and his ability to instruct and
                    inspire"), and John F. Downing, a banker and friend from Illinois College ("the
                    most brilliant Latin scholar in Illinois College during my time & and probably &
                    unsurpassed since that day. He also possessed a personality that was attractive to all the students
                    and his wit and sarcasm was [sic] the talk of the students of Illinois
                    College"). On the day after his death the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News observed, "He was an inveterate joker, noted for many witty sayings
                    delivered with a solemnity that sometimes caused them to be mistaken for serious utterances. This
                    was all the more deceptive because of his genuine dignity, and his earnestness whenever he was
                    really aroused."43 At the same time, contributions to the Illinois
                    College commemorative fund lagged, and a circular issued in April, 1914, exhorted alumni to remember
                    "the old classroom over which Johnston presided; to the ball field, where he entered into
                    our sports as one of us; to his book-lined study, where he counselled us & and ask yourself
                    whether you do not want to join in this tribute to his memory." It reminded readers that
                    Johnston was "a great teacher & passionately devoted to his pupils, and ready to do
                    them any service in his power," and held up the success of the Indiana appeal as a
                    challenge to the Illinois College friends.44
            
            On August 15, 1912, President Bryan wrote to Eugenia Johnston from his summer home in 
                        Michigan
                     that the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching had authorized a pension
                    of $845 per year to her as of June 18. In her application Johnston's widow had
                    recorded his salary for the last five years as $2,700 for 1907–1908,
                    $2,925 for 1908–1911, and $3,125 for 1911–1912 and noted
                    in her application that five children were dependent on her for support. Mrs. Johnston sold the
                    elaborate Third Street house to a sorority and with the proceeds took over a very old and more
                    modest house that later became a demonstration house for the Department of Home Economics. Two of
                    the children retained a connection at Scott, Foresman, where Harry remained until his retirement as
                    vice-president and editor-in-chief, and where Johnston's oldest daughter, Mary, brought out
                    a revised edition of The Private Life of the Romans in 1932. With the publication
                    in 1957 of her Roman Life, described on its title page as "Successor to
                    H. W. Johnston's Private Life of the Romans," the family's connection
                    with the 
                        Chicago
                     publishing house at last came to an end.
            
               
                  43
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, quoted in 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Evening World, June 19, 1912. The letters from Hugh M. Kingery and John F.
                        Downing are in the Indiana University Archives.
               
                  44 The circular, in the Illinois College Archives, states that
                        "there are 428 men living who knew Johnston as their fellow student or their
                        teacher" at the college but laments that 46 out of 428 had contributed a total of only
                        $480. The money was intended to endow "the classical section of the College
                        Library."
            
            
            
               PLAQUE THAT FORMERLY HUNG
                        IN
                        THE INDIANA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, NOW
                        IN
                        THE UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES
               
               Johnston was one of very few faculty members to be honored by a plaque, along with President
                        William Lowe Bryan; Carl H. Eigenmann, first dean of the graduate school and a noted
                        ichthyologist; and Amos Hershey, political scientist and expert on international law.
               Indiana University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            From the historian's point of view what is the significance of Johnston's story? In
                    what respects, up to but not including its tragic denouement, did it typify a midwestern college
                    professor at the turn of the century? The historiography of American higher education, dominated as
                    it is either by large panoramic accounts or by institutional histories and presidential memoirs, has
                    seldom reached down to the working level of actual faculty careers. More case histories like
                    Johnston's might help to identify the variables, to distinguish issues of professional
                    standing from personal crises. After all, men and women in many different walks of life, growing up
                    in the sometimes harsh isolation of the nineteenth-century prairies, beleaguered by problems that
                    seemed to be spiraling out of control, at least must have contemplated the same
                    "solution" as Johnston, even if in the vast majority of cases they rejected it.
            In Johnston's case the outcome of that private drama was particularly redolent of his
                    lifelong study of ancient 
                        Rome
                    , but his career must also be seen as part of a transitional period in the
                    professionalization of American higher education, when the older model of the faculty member as
                    moral guide and campus citizen was giving way to the newer guild orientation reflected by the
                    development of professional societies and other networks of scholarly exchange.45 Johnston's younger colleagues at Indiana, Beeson and Sturtevant, represent the
                    emerging model; Johnston, whose institutional commitments were only partly defined by his field of
                    study, and who was wittily skeptical about the creation of a graduate college at Indiana, represents
                    the older pattern.46 Even the move from Illinois College, where as a valued
                    alumnus he might easily have spent the remainder of his days, to Indiana University, while
                    undoubtedly related to his growing visibility as a classicist, was less decisive an indicator of his
                    scholarly standing than it would be now. In 1895 Indiana University was far from being a major
                    research institution, and the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , which expressed an interest in him within the year, was still in its infancy. 
                  
                     45 Some principal sources include Walter P. Metzger, Academic Freedom in the Age of the University (
                                New York
                            , 1961); Frederick Rudolph, The American College and University: A
                                History (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 394–416; Burton J. Bledstein, The Culture of
                                Professionalism: The Middle Class and the Development of Higher Education in
                            America (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 269ff. The American Philological Association, originally interested in
                            developments in historical linguistic research generally but later devoted primarily to
                            classical philology, was the first of such learned societies, forming in 1869.
                  
                     46 The matter of a graduate college was discussed at a meeting in
                            February, 1904; see Burton Dorr Myers, History of Indiana University,
                                1902–1937: The Bryan Administration (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1952), 28. Johnston's opposition was probably grounded in part on his
                            belief in the inadequacy of the library. For the general climate of hostility in the state
                            toward the funding of graduate education see William O. Lynch's memories of his
                            life as a student at Indiana University at the turn of the century, "A Student at
                            Indiana University," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (December, 1937), 497.
               
                     These considerations also suggest that one relatively
                    unexplored dimension of turn-of-the-century faculty mobility is the possibility of regional
                    variation: that in the Midwest more than in the longer-established eastern schools institutional
                    definition, and therefore the career of a faculty member, was more fluid and variable in its
                    outcomes.
            Today's universities still harbor many faculty members whose commitments lie more toward
                    service or teaching than research, and conversely as early as 1892 a popular teacher at 
                        Harvard
                     who published little or nothing might go many years without promotion.47 But Johnston's apparent view of himself as first and foremost a total
                    "citizen" of the university is a model that many observers today see as an
                    endangered species. That fact is, of course, a concomitant of the growth of scholarly communities
                    that transcend campus boundaries and weaken institutional ties. Had the administrative structure of
                    Indiana University at the turn of the century offered the range of options characteristic of
                    today's research universities, it is possible that Johnston, with his concern for the
                    working environment, might have become a full-time administrator. But then it is equally possible
                    that he might not. As it was, heads of departments under Bryan, as has been noted, effectively
                    constituted a presidential cabinet far more powerful than any decanal position. And it is difficult
                    to imagine Johnston willingly renouncing any role that kept him in contact with students and with
                    teachers in the schools, his two primary audiences throughout his life.
            Finally, any study of faculty careers, then or now, must engage the issue of the status and
                    expectations of a particular discipline. In Johnston's story lies an opportunity for the
                    historian of classical studies in America. Johnston's suggestions on departmental merger
                    suggest a fairly clearheaded forecast of the future of classical studies not only at Indiana
                    University but at other growing public institutions. He cannot have forgotten that at the time he
                    came to Indiana the burning of copies of Horace to celebrate the release of undergraduates from the
                    study of Latin was still an annual rite. Particularly galling to a classicist's
                    sensibilities would have been the fact that the student newspaper challenged the perpetuation of
                    this rite on the grounds that it gave undue weight to a study about which few even knew or cared.48 Yet Johnston seems never to have wavered in his view that the study of Latin
                    could be an integral part of preparation for modern life; such a compelling belief must have
                    supported his concern for basic language instruction at a time 
                  
                     47 Rudolph, American College and University, 405,
                            cites the example of Charles T. Copeland, who spent eighteen years at 
                                Harvard
                             as an instructor before promotion.
                  
                     48 For the quotations from the Indiana University Student and a longer discussion of the controversy, see Clark, Indiana
                                University, I, 299–304.
               
                     when many faculty members, then as well as now, would have been
                    glad to be relieved of it.
            The influence that the study of Roman values cast over Johnston's life was present in the
                    circumstances of his death. The point emerges in the juxtaposition of two passages, the first from
                    Samuel Butler's witty and scathing account of his religious unconversion, published
                    (posthumously) the same year as the first edition of The Private Life of the
                    Romans. 
                        A man can stand being told that he must submit to a severe surgical operation, or that he has
                            some disease which will shortly kill him, or that he will be a cripple or blind for the rest
                            of his life; dreadful as such tidings must be, we do not find that they unnerve the greater
                            number of mankind; most men, indeed, go coolly enough even to be hanged, but the strongest
                            quail before financial ruin, and the better men they are, the more complete, as a general
                            rule, is their prostration. Suicide is a common consequence of money losses; it is rarely
                            sought as a means of escape from bodily suffering.49
                  
                    
            
            Although this description rings true in Johnston's situation, the second passage, from The Private Life of the Romans, seems more apposite to his troubled last days. In
                    the first chapter of the book, devoted to the Roman family, he had written: 
                        It was customary for the Head of the House to assign to his children property & for
                            them to manage for their own benefit. And more than this, although the pater
                                familias held legal title to all their acquisitions, yet practically all property
                            was acquired for and belonged to the household as a whole, and he was in effect little more
                            than a trustee to hold and administer it for the common benefit. This is shown by the fact
                            that there was no graver offense against public morals, no fouler blot on private character,
                            than to prove untrue to this trust, patrimonium profundere.50
                  
                     Thus, though Johnston's death—despite the miscarriage in its
                    staging—was carried out with the aid of modern science, something of a classical fatality
                    hung over it. Perhaps, as he weighed himself against the ancient Romans that he had studied for so
                    many years, suicide assumed for him the character of a justified self-retribution. It is altogether
                    typical of the man, in any case, that he fulfilled his contract to the letter, timing his last
                    decision for the end of the term.
            Among the Johnston papers at Indiana University there survive several pages in a round, clear
                    handwriting, not his own, on the subject of fame, old age, and death. A reasonable hypothesis is
                    that they were intended to be read at his memorial service and were chosen by his eldest daughter.
                    One, from Book III (Ode XXX) of Horace, speaks of a verse monument "more lasting than
                    bronze and loftier than the pyramids" that defies death. Another, from 
                  
                     49 Samuel Butler, The Way of All Flesh, ed. James
                            Cochrane (1903; 
                                New York
                            , 1986), 311–12.
                  
                     50 Johnston, Private Life of the Romans, 32.
               
                     Pliny's letters (Book 1, No. 12), strikes a more
                    personal note, lamenting the death of a man who escaped lifelong illness, left his relatives and the
                    state surviving, and yet at whose departure grief, like that "over the death of a young and
                    strong man," cannot be gainsaid. But perhaps the most fitting is from Tacitus's
                    life of Agricola. In his narrative of Agricola's last days, Tacitus points out that
                    Agricola was rumored to have been poisoned (though not by his own hand) and that he was in his
                    fifty-fourth year at the time of his death. He expresses his regret that both he and
                    Agricola's daughter were denied the rewards of being with Agricola in his last days.
                    Nonetheless, 
                        If there is any place for the souls of the blest, if, as the philosophers would have it,
                            great souls are not extinguished with the body, rest in peace, and call us and your home
                            from weak regret and womanish lamentations to the contemplation of your virtues, for which
                            it is right neither to mourn nor to weep. Let us rather honor you by admiration and immortal
                            praise, and if nature gives us strength, by imitation. This is true honor, this the duty of
                            all dear to you. This, too, I would enjoin upon the daughter and the wife, so to venerate
                            the memory of father and husband that they think over all his words and deeds, and that they
                            consider the form and figure of his mind rather than of his body &. [For] the form
                            of the mind is eternal.
                    
            
         
         
         
            West Point Letters of Cadet Milo S. Hascall, 1848–1850
            Edited by Stephen E. Towne*
            Milo Smith Hascall (1829–1904) came to 
                        Elkhart County
                    , Indiana, in September, 1847, as but the latest member of his family to travel west
                    from 
                        New York
                    . Six older siblings had preceded him over the previous ten years, and more were to
                    follow. Those six brothers and sisters, having already established themselves in their new setting,
                    provided a ready-made web of social, political, and business connections into which the young
                    migrant quickly and comfortably settled. Such advantages promptly secured for him one of the rare
                    and coveted prizes that a young man in nineteenth-century America could win: a free education at one
                    of the country's elite educational institutions.
            Milo Hascall was born in Le Roy, 
                        New York
                    , the ninth and youngest child of Amasa and Phoebe Hascall. Amasa Hascall, while a
                    farmer of apparently modest means in comparison to his more aMuent and prominent brothers, played an
                    active role in the politics of Genesee County.1 Young Hascall was raised and
                    schooled in Le Roy, a town that struggled during the lean depression years of the 1830s and early
                    1840s. Those decades witnessed a significant exodus from Genesee County and the region of western 
                        New York
                    , and it was during these years that Milo's older brothers and sisters began
                    their westward travels.2
            
            Hascall journeyed to 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana, to share in the promise of prosperity already enjoyed by his siblings. As the
                    first letter published here makes clear, his original plan was to work in his oldest
                    brother's general store. Not liking the business, he employed his scholarly attainments and
                    taught at the local town school. When another opportunity arose, one that showed greater promise of
                    advancement in directions more to his liking, he seized on it as a 
                  
                     * Stephen E. Towne is an archivist on the staff of the
                            Indiana State Archives, Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Kathleen Smith Kutolowski, "The Social Composition of
                            Political Leadership: 
                        Genesee County, New York
                     , 1821–1860"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                        Rochester, New York
                     ,
                            1973), 207. Augustus Porter Hascall (1800–1872), a Le Roy attorney, served a term
                            in the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives, 1851–1853.
                  
                     2 For data on the 
                                New York
                            -born population in 
                                Elkhart County
                            , Indiana, see Elfrieda Lang, "An Analysis of Northern
                            Indiana's Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIX (March, 1953), 17–60; and Gregory S. Rose, "Hoosier
                            Origins: The Nativity of Indiana's 
                                United States
                            -Born Population in 1850," ibid., LXXXI (September,
                            1985), 201–32.
               
                     means to more substantive rewards. Apparently Hascall, a highly
                    self-assured young man, harbored ambitions for greater things. The possibility of a place as a cadet
                    at the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy does not appear to have been in his original plans, but the
                    opportunity for an excellent education was certainly too enticing to dismiss once it occurred.
                    Clearly, Hascall owed the nomination to the academy to his family ties to important local
                    politicians and his educational attainments.
            Hascall graduated from the military academy in 1852 and entered the regular army as a brevet second
                    lieutenant of artillery with an enviable posting on the east coast. He does not appear to have
                    contemplated a military career, however; and for reasons that are not known he resigned his
                    commission in September, 1853, having served little more than a year. The dull and routine life of
                    garrison duty may have come as a shock to him—as it did to many other
                    graduates—after living in the rarified intellectual atmosphere found at West Point. The
                    prospect of glacially slow promotion within the army also may have discouraged him;3 or he may have preferred to put his newly attained engineering and applied mathematics
                    skills to work in some more lucrative field, such as the then booming railroad business. After a
                    brief period of travel Hascall returned to Indiana to enter into railroad work. Soon, however, he
                    settled down in 
                        Goshen
                     to read law. He entered into a practice with his prominent brother-in-law, Ebenezer
                    Mattoon Chamberlain; speculated in real estate; and began a decades-long political career in the
                    Republican party.
            Hascall is best known today for his exploits during the Civil War. Enlisting at the outbreak of war
                    and quickly rising to the command of an Indiana volunteer regiment, he soon attained the rank of
                    brigadier general of volunteers and participated in many important campaigns. Hascall has received
                    most notoriety, however, for his brief tenure in 1863 as commander of the military district of
                    Indiana, during which time his vigorous efforts to suppress the Democratic opposition to President
                    Abraham Lincoln so embarrassed Republican politicians in Indiana and 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , that he was relieved of the command.4 Near the war's end
                    Hascall 
                  
                     3 Stephen E. Ambrose, Duty, Honor, Country: A History of
                                West Point (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1960), 85.
                  
                     4 Several authors have dealt briefly with Milo S. Hascall's
                            command in Indiana. See Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949; reprint, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1978); Gilbert R. Tredway, Democratic Opposition to the
                                Lincoln Administration in Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1973); Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965); Frank L. Klement, The Copperheads in the Middle West (
                                Chicago
                            , 1960); and Klement, Dark Lanterns: Secret Political Societies,
                                Conspiracies, and Treason Trials in the Civil War (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1984). Shortly after the Civil War Hascall wrote a short
               
                     resigned his commission and returned to 
                        Goshen
                    . He became a prominent banker and industrialist and several times ran unsuccessfully
                    for public office. In 1890 he left 
                        Goshen
                     and relocated in 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , where he continued his business
                    activities. He died there in 1904.
            The five letters published here convey the thoughts of a young, intelligent, and ambitious new
                    arrival to Indiana.5 The first letter is especially useful in outlining the
                    process of nomination to West Point and casts light on the local community of which Hascall quickly
                    became a part. The subsequent four letters detail the life of a cadet "pleb" at
                    the academy, illustrating the school's curriculum and activities as well as the obsessions
                    of the cadets regarding class standing and rank.
            
               autobiographical sketch of his service in the conflict. In this account, which is available in
                        the Indiana State Archives, Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical
                        Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Hascall glossed over the Indiana episode.
               
                  5 The original letters are in the archives of the Le Roy Historical
                        Society, Le Roy, 
                            New York
                        , The author wishes to thank the society for permission to publish the
                    letters.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Goshen
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 5th 18481
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir2
                        
                        After a desire of about six months to write to you with a view of hearing from you by
                                    so doing I now proceed to do so I learned in a letter I recd from Charles
                                        Alderman3 the other day that you were going to school to the
                                    Round House4 this winter as usual: and you may easily imagine
                                    that my mind must have frequently adverted to scenes already past at that place by
                                    you and me for instance "the problem of the Lights" &
                                    other things to "tedious" to mention as the fellow said But an
                                    allusion to these and other attendant circumstances brings over my mind a longing
                                    anxiety to be with you
                        Perhaps you would like to know how I like this country and its inhabitants and it
                                    might not be amiss to inform you that I like both of these better than the prevalent
                                        diseases5 of this Country The 
                              
                                 1 Original spelling, capitalization, punctuation, and
                                            grammar have been retained throughout the following transcription of the
                                            Milo S. Hascall correspondence. Hascall in the earlier letters frequently
                                            omitted the use of periods at the end of sentences; double spaces have been
                                            employed to indicate sentence breaks. While at West Point he began (perhaps
                                            as a result of his instructors' prodding) to punctuate his letters
                                            more completely. Paragraph breaks are, for the most part, as they appear in
                                            the letters, though some of Hascall's indentations at the beginning
                                            of paragraphs were minimal (perhaps as a way to optimize space). At various
                                            places throughout the letters small inverted carets appear above the line.
                                            Although it is impossible to determine from the photocopies on which this
                                            transcription is based whether the marks were Hascall's or were
                                            added by someone else at a later time, they do occur at logical paragraph
                                            breaks and have been transcribed as such. Sentences written in the margins
                                            of a letter have been placed at the end of the letter. Words that are
                                            unclear or illegible have been put in brackets with a question mark in the
                                            brackets if the word cannot be made out. Spacing of headings, salutations,
                                            and closings has been standardized. Underlined words have been placed in
                                            italics; words underlined twice or three times have been italicized and
                                            underlined.
                              
                                 2 Ezra Saurin Janes (1825–1923), to whom
                                            Hascall wrote the following letters, was a farm neighbor and school friend
                                            who resided outside of Le Roy, 
                                                New York
                                            . Janes remained a resident of the area his entire life. His
                                            daughter gave the five letters published here to the Le Roy Historical
                                            Society probably sometime after her father's death in the 1920s.
                              
                                 3 Charles Alderman's (1828–1887)
                                            mother, Vesta G. Alderman, married Amasa Hascall after the death of
                                            Hascall's first wife, Phoebe. The 1850 manuscript federal census
                                            for Le Roy lists Charles Alderman as a grocer's clerk. Born in 
                                                Vermont
                                            , he came to 
                                                Goshen
                                             in 1853 and entered the family dry goods trade, later becoming
                                            a partner in the firm of Hascall, Alderman and 
                                                Brown
                                            . A lifelong Democrat, Alderman served as 
                                                Goshen
                                            's mayor from 1875 to 1882. See Abraham E. Weaver, ed.,
                                                A Standard History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , Indiana & (2 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1910), I, 243–44.
                              
                                 4 The Roundhouse was a circular structure built in
                                            1825 by the town of Le Roy and the local Masonic lodge. It housed the town
                                            school and several local church congregations. See Kathleen Smith
                                            Kutolowski, "The Social Composition of Political Leadership:
                                                    
                                    Genesee County, New York
                                 ,
                                            1821–1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of
                                                    
                                    Rochester, New York
                                 , 1973), 35; and
                                            Frederick W. Beers, ed., Gazetteer and Biographical Record of
                                                        
                                       Genesee County,
                                                        New York
                                    ,
                                                1788–1890 (
                                    Syracuse, N.Y.
                                 , 1890), 483.
                              
                                 5 Hascall in all probability subscribed to the widely
                                            held contemporary notion of disease emitting from the soil as it was
                                            disturbed by cultivation or settlement. See John Duffy, The
                                                Sanitarians: A History of American Public Health
                                                    (
                                    Urbana, Ill.
                                 , 1990),
                                            67–68. See also the description of northern Indiana and its
                                            diseases in Daniel
                           
                                     country about the town and on which it stands
                                    is rich prairie and Oak Openings Just south of the town and immediately joining is a
                                    beautiful prairie about ten miles long and four miles wide At each of the other
                                    points of compass is oak openings The adjacent country abounds in thick woods
                                    Openings Prairies &c Sugar Maple and about every other variety of timber is
                                    found here The inhabitants are a mixture of every country and clime upon Earth
                                    Principally German Dutch6 with their hook and eye coats and
                                    tremendous long beards Musing thus gives you a brief history of
                                    general affairs I now proceed to give you a minute account of "Ourself"
                        
                        Shortly after arriving here I went into the store of my brother C.S. Hascall7 as a clerk and after having been with him about 3 months I
                                    left partly on account of not liking the business very well but more particularly on
                                    account of the "Dimes" not appearing often enough Immediately
                                    after I left I succeeded in getting the school here in town8 at
                                    which business I closed one quarter about a week ago I made 23 Dollars pr month
                                    clear of Board expenses which of course made a dime appear occasionally which I must
                                    say was never peculiarly distressing to me at least
                        I averaged about 65 scholars of most every age, size, and qualification except good
                                    qualification Although I had some very good scholars they were generally quite
                                    backward My class in Adams Arithmetic9 advanced as far as
                                    supplement to Fractions and although this would be considered nothing at all in
                                    "Old LeRoy" I would like to see the man who would have taken them
                                    further and had them understood it as well
                        
                           Drake, A Systematic Treatise, Historical, Etiological, and
                                            Practical, on the Principal Diseases of the Interior
                                            Valley of North America, as They Appear in the Caucasian,
                                            African, Indian, and Esquimaux Varieties of its Population (
                                            Cincinnati
                                        , 1850), 343ff. Hascall's sister Henrietta died of disease,
                                        possibly smallpox, in 
                                            Goshen
                                         on New Year's eve, 1846.
                           
                              6
                                        
                                            Elkhart County
                                        's population of 12,694, listed in the 1850 federal census,
                                        included 196 born in 
                                            Germany
                                        ; however, settlers who spoke German were among those who migrated
                                        from 
                                            Pennsylvania
                                         and 
                                            Ohio
                                        . See Elfrieda Lang, "An Analysis of Northern
                                        Indiana's Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine
                                            of History, XLIX (March, 1953), 27.
                           
                              7 Chauncey S. Hascall (1812–1894),
                                        Milo's oldest sibling, came to 
                                            Elkhart County
                                         in 1837, settling soon in 
                                            Goshen
                                        . After a stint as a postmaster in a nearby village, he undertook a
                                        variety of business ventures, principally the dry goods business and real estate
                                        speculation. An active Democrat, he was prominent in politics in the county,
                                        serving in various appointive and elective positions.
                           
                              8 Several Hascalls staffed the local school in 
                                            Goshen
                                         during the 1840s. Chauncey Hascall's wife, Emma Brown
                                        Hascall (1820–1911), served first in 1838, teaching intermittantly
                                        through 1841, followed by Milo's brothers, Amasa N. Hascall
                                        (1817–1873) in 1841 and Melvin B. Hascall (1821–1891) in
                                        1842. Both brothers later joined in the dry goods trade. See Weaver, A Standard History of 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            , Indiana, I, 104.
                           
                              9 Daniel Adams's Arithmetic, In
                                            Which the Principles of Operating by Numbers Are Analytically Explained and
                                            Synthetically Applied was first published in 1827 and was a standard
                                        text for the period, passing through eight editions by 1847.
                        
                        
                        The folks about town say there was never such a "turn out" of young
                                    Ladies to any school in town and left me, as I will you to draw your own inferences
                                    Some of them are not bad to look at others dont look very bad and so on in tenfold
                                    proportion you know down to infinity At the end of my school I intended to have a
                                    week vacation and then teach another quarter but during this time my Brother in Law
                                    E. G. Chamberlain10 Clerk of the County wanted I should come
                                    into his Office and write for him: this I concluded to do and am now here writing to
                                    you instead of Recording the Estate of William R. Ellis Deceased11 which is my business at this time He pays me $15 pr month and
                                    Boards me: with a probability of my wages being raised as I become more expert We do
                                    not confine ourselves to the Office all the time for hardly any one can write all
                                    the time I concluded I had rather be in the Office at this price at first with the
                                    chance I have for reading and getting information than to be in school at the former
                                    price
                        Tell Charley that as his genius is sometimes occupied in shaking his feet or as the
                                    world would have it Dancing: and inasmuch as he adverted to the subject in his
                                    letter I think he perhaps would like to hear from that department here Tell him that
                                    we have had better Dances here this winter than they dare have
                                    there Tell him they dance in this country just as they do everything else they do it
                                    up "
                                        Brown
                                    " or not at all12 Also if you please tell
                                    him and have him tell Father that we are all well as usual at this time It is now
                                    March and until a few days ago the ground has been bare all winter except 2 or 3
                                    days the 1st of this month it commenced snowing and blustering a little you would call it there but in this country it hardly ever drifts
                                    any so it was called quite a storm The weather is now moderate again.
                        I have been as you may have heard from Charles nominated for a Cadet to the Military
                                    Academy at West Point in your State You are probably aware that every Congressional
                                    District in Each State 
                              
                                 10 Elbridge G. Chamberlain (1811–1899),
                                            husband of Hascall's sister Avaline (1819–1904), served
                                            in various local government capacities. His older brother, Ebenezer Mattoon
                                            Chamberlain (1805–1861), 
                                                United States
                                             congressman, state senator, and circuit court judge, was
                                            Hascall's law partner in the 1850s. E. M. Chamberlain married
                                            Hascall's sister Phoebe Ann (1816–1909) in 1838.
                              
                                 11 William R. Ellis (1784–1839) was the
                                            father of E. W. H. Ellis and William R. Ellis (1819–1882), the
                                            newspaper publishers. A physician, Ellis pere came west
                                            with son E. W. H. in 1836, settling first in 
                                                South Bend
                                            . See Erastus Winter Hewett Ellis, "Autobiography of a
                                            Noted Pioneer," Indiana Magazine of History, X
                                            (March, 1914), 66.
                              
                                 12 Hascall frequently returned to the subject of
                                            dancing in these letters. Dancing was counted among the worst immoral
                                            offenses in his native region of western 
                                                New York
                                            , an area which by 1848 had experienced several powerful waves
                                            of religious fervor. See Whitney R. Cross, The Burned-Over
                                                District: The Social and Intellectual History of Enthusiastic Religion
                                                in Western 
                                                    New York
                                                
                                  (
                                    Ithaca, N.Y.
                                 , 1950), 87.
                           
                                     Also each Territorial District is entitled to
                                    send a Cadet to that place There are also ten at large that is from any part of the
                                    U.S. The candidate may nominate himself or his parent or Guardian or anyone may
                                    nominate him There are 16 Counties in this Congressional District and Charles W.
                                        Cathcart13 our Congressman in a letter 3 or 4 months ago to
                                    Dr Ellis14 Editor of the paper here in town said 
                                        Elkhart County
                                     was entitled to said Cadet About a year ago a yong 
                                        Mitchell
                                    
                           15 was appointed who declined going on account of
                                    his health In a letter lately received by Dr Ellis from Cathcart he informs him the
                                    place is still open for 
                                        Mitchell
                                     and wants to know if he is a going The Dr informed me of the proceeding
                                    and asked me if I would go in his stead As soon as I got the requisite information
                                    with regard to the institution I told him I would go if I could get the appointment
                                    He immediately wrote to Cathcart informing him of 
                                        Mitchell
                                    's resignation and substituting my name in his stead The
                                    several candidates that apply for admission are recommended to the Secretary of war
                                    by the congressman from their respective District. The Secretary of war takes into
                                    consideration the claims of each applicant and appoints the one he thinks best
                                    fitted and most deserving16 There is no other applicant besides
                                    me from this county 
                              
                                 13 Charles W. Cathcart (1809–1888) served
                                            as 
                                                United States
                                             representative from the Ninth Congressional District from 1845
                                            to 1849. A Democrat from 
                                                La Porte County
                                            , he advocated internal improvements and territorial expansion
                                            while in 
                                                Washington
                                            . See Marvin R. Cain, The Cathcart Family: a Family
                                                Account of 100 Years of American History (
                                    East Lansing, Mich.
                                 , 1962), 135–60.
                              
                                 14 Erastus Winter Hewett Ellis (1815–1876)
                                            was founder, owner, and editor of the 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Democrat. Born in 
                                                New York
                                             and trained as a physician, Ellis dabbled in newspapers and
                                            politics prior to venturing west to Indiana in 1836. At the urging of
                                            Ebenezer M. Chamberlain he moved to 
                                                Goshen
                                             in 1839 to establish and edit a local newspaper, soon giving up
                                            his medical practice. Elected county auditor and later chosen auditor of
                                            state (1850–1853), he was an influential Democratic party leader
                                            from northern Indiana. He also became involved in other newspaper ventures.
                                            A brother-in-law to the Hascalls (having married a sister of Chauncey S.
                                            Hascall's wife), Ellis was co-publisher of the 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Democrat with Melvin B. Hascall from 1846 to 1848. Ellis
                                            was also involved in the Hascall dry goods firm, and he later invested in
                                            real estate and railroad stocks with Chauncey S. Hascall. The venture failed
                                            disastrously. Neither man fully recovered financially. Ellis, however,
                                            continued to exert considerable political influence, switching to the
                                            Republican party on the issue of slavery's extension into the new
                                            territories. He was appointed by Governor Oliver P. Morton as one of
                                            Indiana's delegates to the 
                                                Washington
                                             Peace Conference of 1861. An active proponent of the Union
                                            cause in the Civil War, Ellis promoted the military careers of brothers Milo
                                            and Melvin Hascall. See his memoir, "Autobiography of a Noted
                                            Pioneer."
                              
                                 15 Several young men named 
                                                Mitchell
                                             of cadet age resided in 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             at the time. The "yong 
                                                Mitchell
                                            " in question may have been one of the two sons of
                                            William B. Mitchell (1796–1844), a Democratic state senator,
                                            Indian agent, and northern canal engineer. A Biographical
                                                Directory of the Indiana General Assembly: Vol. I, 1816–1899 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1980), 277.
                              
                                 16 The nomination process of the period arose out of
                                            the desire both to supply congressional patronage opportunities and to allow
                                            western candidates better chances for admission. As a result, entrance
                                            standards were kept low to compensate for deficient western schooling,
                                            although western applicants tended to be the academically best qualified in
                                            their districts. See Stephen E. Ambrose, Duty,
                                        Honor,
                              
                           
                                     and in as much as Cathcart said this county was
                                    entitled to the Cadet my prospects are very good I shall know in the month some time
                                    perhaps in a week If I get the appointment I shall be at home this Spring on my way
                                    to the Academy If I get the appointment I wont ask any more If I dont I shall ask
                                    all I can get which is no inconsiderable sum Tell our f[olks?] I shall not write
                                    again till I know whether I get appointed or not write to me without fail as soon as
                                    you receive this and accept for yourself the best wishes of
                        
                                    Your Friend
                                    Milo S. Hascall
                                
                        E. Saurin Janes
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Doniphan17 West Point
                           
                                    Aug 13th/48
                                
                        My Dear Friend Ezra
                        Agreeable to my promise when I last saw you18 I will now write to
                                    you I have now a little spare time on account of its being Sunday and although I
                                    have a number of letters on hand that I have not answered I have concluded to write
                                    to you I have now been here about two months and a half, so you see I must have
                                    become pretty well initiated and ought to be able to give something of an idea of
                                    things here. Presuming that you would rather hear of some things about West Point
                                    and about the Duties of Cadets at West Point I 
                              
                                 Country: A History of West Point (
                                                Baltimore
                                            , 1960), 83, 130. Nonetheless, family or political connections
                                            continued to be important, if not the decisive, elements in the selection of
                                            cadet nominees. The fact that Hascall's father was a Whig when his
                                            son was chosen by Democratic Congressman Cathcart to go to West Point
                                            emerged in a similar controversy played out in the 
                                                Goshen
                                             press in 1859. At that time Milo Hascall enjoyed a close
                                            political relationship with the incumbent congressman, Republican Charles
                                            Case. Hascall was accused of brokering Case's nomination for the
                                            son of E. M. Chamberlain, a Democrat, his brother-in-law and law partner.
                                            The accuser, George Howell, Republican father of the rival candidate for
                                            nomination, claimed that Hascall had informed him that Case would nominate
                                            any candidate whom Hascall chose and that Hascall had promised
                                            Howell's son would receive the nod. Howell stated, however, that
                                            Hascall had reneged on his pledge, explaining that he "was indebted
                                            to the Judge [chamberlain] for his own appointment to the Cadetship, when he
                                            was a stranger here." Hascall, in a reply published in the 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Times, defended his switch, conceding, "I had
                                            received the same favor [nomination] of Dr. Ellis and Judge Chamberlain, and
                                            that, too, when I was a staunch Whig, and they strong democrats,"
                                            and that "Judge Chamberlain now claimed that I was in honor bound
                                            to do what I could for him." Hascall dismissed the affair as a
                                            "purely personal matter" "in which the public can
                                            have but little interest." Nonetheless, he received severe
                                            criticism by his fellow Republicans for passing over a Republican for a
                                            family connection. See 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Democrat, March 30, 1859, and 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Times, May 26, June 6, 1859.
                              
                                 17 Alexander W. Doniphan (1808–1887), 
                                                Missouri
                                             lawyer and politician, led troops in the Mexican war.
                              
                                 18 As noted in the first letter, Hascall presumably
                                            passed through Le Roy on his way east to West Point.
                           
                                     will proceed to inform you a little concerning both. I have said a little because I
                                    shall only be able to glance at a few of the many things that would be interesting
                                    to you. I arrived here on the 31st of May last and on the first of June Reported and
                                    began my Duties as a Cadet The first month of my sojourn I lived in Barracks (or
                                    Room in a good Building) and together with Drilling twice a day, was studying, and
                                    reciting some of the Course which all have to be examined on before being admitted
                                    into the institution as a Cadet There were seventy one Candidates for admission this
                                    year. We were all examined for admission about the first of July, and only one out
                                    of the seventy one was found deficient & he was rejected I had not the least
                                    trouble in passing both Medical and Mental examinations so you see I am decidedly
                                        "one of em"
                           19
                                    Immediately after passing our examination we repaired to the Camp Ground pitched our
                                    tents and came into Camp where we have now been about six weeks It takes about
                                    Eighty Tents to accommodate all the Cadets and Officers The tents the Cadets occupy
                                    are about ten feet square. (I wrote the above last Sabbath and it is now Wednesday
                                    and the first opportunity I have had to write any more) The tents are all of new
                                    cloth this year and are constructed in such a manner that they dont leak at all
                                    during a continued rain. They all have good matched floors which are raised about
                                    six inches from the ground Our Bedding while in Camp consists of two Indian Blankets
                                    one Coverlid and one Pillow We spread our Blankets down and sleep on the floor in
                                    regular soldier style There are two in some tents three in others and four in others
                                    There are three of us in our tent and we manage to get along together very well
                        A Mr. Bonaparte20 lives in the next tent to ours on the right He
                                    is a connexion of the old Napoleon Bonaparte himself, is six feet high in his bare
                                    feet and in the face very much resembles his illustrious Predecessor and a fine
                                    clever fellow in the bargain We have also in our class a Mr. Polk21 Nephew and adopted son of the the President, and Mr. Stockton22 connexion of the old Commodore 
                              
                                 19 Congress insisted that the entrance examinations
                                            not tax the capacities of their protégés; however,
                                            high attrition would later reduce the number of cadets in each class
                                            significantly. Ambrose, Duty, Honor, Country,
                                            128–29. Of the nominees 93.1 percent were accepted during the
                                            1833–1866 period, but one-fourth failed to graduate. See James L.
                                            Morrison, Jr., "The Best School in the
                                                World": West Point, The Pre-Civil War Years,
                                                1833–1866 (
                                    Kent, Ohio
                                 , 1986), 62–63.
                              
                                 20 Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte, Jr.
                                            (1830–1893), great-nephew of the Emperor Napoleon I, was born and
                                            raised in 
                                                Maryland
                                            . After short service in the 
                                                United States
                                             Army, Bonaparte resigned his commission and joined the imperial
                                            French army of his cousin, Napoleon III, seeing service in the Crimean and
                                            Franco-Prussian wars. See the Register of Graduates and Former
                                                Cadets of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Military Academy (
                                    West Point, N.Y.
                                 , 1990) for class rank and biographical
                                            information on West Point graduates.
                              
                                 21 Marshall Tate Polk (1830–1884) graduated
                                            twenty-third in the class. He later served in the Confederate army during
                                            the Civil War.
                              
                                 22 Philip Stockton (1832–1879) graduated
                                            thirty-third in the class. Resigning his commission in 1861, he joined the
                                            Confederate army in the Civil War. His father,
                           
                                     and there are 
                                        Washington
                                    's, Calhoun's23 and others here
                                    all of which are descendants of the Original stock Every encampment is devoted
                                    entirely to the acquisition of the Military part of the course, and considerable
                                    attention is also paid to the same while we are in Barracks24 I
                                    expected previous to coming into Camp to dislike it very much, as I thought so great
                                    a change would be deleterious to my health and make me sick, but in this I have been
                                    very happily disappointed as I have not caught the least cold nor been sick an hour
                                    since coming into Camp On the whole two months in Camp is very desirable as it
                                    affords some change to the monotonous life25 we experience in
                                    Barracks Every thing here is conducted on a regular Clockwork System and is done at
                                    just such a time and in a proper manner or is not done at all though the former is
                                    "mighty apt" to predominate We are Drilling nowadays at Artillery
                                    and Infantry Tactics and I have got so I understand both "some"
                           26
                        
                        We have a morning and evening Dress Parade at which we have to appear in full Uniform
                                    and perfectly clean in every way Our white pants must be spotless and the Brass
                                    Eagle Castle Sockett &c on our Caps must be so bright that would shine at
                                    night—in fine every thing must be in the best possible condition or we
                                    are Reported. If we get 200 demerit in a year we are dismissed the service and there
                                    are a great many ways for getting demerit: such as the following viz: Laughing in
                                    Ranks. Not Keeping eyes to the front: Late falling in Ranks at Drill, Not taking
                                    seat at the command at the Mess Hall at Breakfast. Standing still when walking
                                    sentinels post Losing the step in Ranks, Inattention at Drill Tent out of order at
                                    inspection and a multitude of other things we are liable to get reported for We
                                    write an excuse for each report and if the excuse is a good one we do not get any
                                    demerit if not we get demerit according to the degree of the offense27 I have not got any 
                              Commodore Robert F. Stockton, 
                                                United States
                                             Navy, served conspicuously in the Mexican War.
                              
                                 23 Hascall refers to Thornton A. Washington, class in
                                            1849, and William R. Calhoun, class of 1850. Both served in the Confederate
                                            army in the Civil War.
                              
                                 24 The summer encampments provided most of the
                                            professional military training offered at the academy. Little of the
                                            classroom course work dealt with military matters. Morrison, "The Best School in the World," 69.
                              
                                 25 Descriptions of the monotony of life at West Point
                                            in that period appear frequently. The lack of extracurricular activities and
                                            diversions figured principally in causing boredom. Many cadets resorted to
                                            illicit sources—drinking, smoking, pranks—for their
                                            amusements.
                              
                                 26 In camp, fourth classmen (first year cadets)
                                            learned the duties and roles of the lowest ranking enlisted men. Third
                                            classmen learned those of noncommissioned officers, and first classmen
                                            learned those of commissioned officers. Second classmen spent their summer
                                            on furlough. Morrison, "The Best School in the
                                                World," 69.
                              
                                 27 Philip H. Sheridan (1831–1888), Civil
                                            War general and 
                                                United States
                                             Army commander, entered West Point in 1848 as a member of
                                            Hascall's class. However, he was caught fighting with a fellow
                                            cadet. In his memoirs Sheridan noted that his written excuse failed to
                                            convince the authorities, and he was suspended one year, graduating in 1853.
                                            Philip H. Sheridan, Personal Memoirs of P. H. Sheridan, General 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army (2 vols., 1888; reprint, 
                                                New York
                                             1992), 6–7.
                           
                                     demerit yet which is doing very well Each Cadet
                                    is paid 24 Dollars a month but we have to Dress and live in such a way that it takes
                                    it about all
                        We have to stay here two years before we can leave on furlough an four before we
                                    graduate But I must stop at present although I have not said one fourth of what
                                    would be interesting to you Give my Respects to all my friends as you may Theodore
                                    Cushing and his Sisters of course. Dick Waite28 and the rest and tell them I am here and like to give my Respects to all my
                                    acquaintances that you know, Dont fail to answer this as soon as received as you
                                    promised so to do Do this and believe me
                        
                                    Very Affectionately
                                    Your Friend
                                    Cadet Milo S. Hascall
                                
                        E. Saurin Janes, Esq. P.S. Excuse bad writing as I have been in a great
                                    hurry and had to write on my knee [margin note] We go into Barracks in about
                                    two weeks [margin note] I had almost forgotten to tell you that this is one of
                                    the most beautiful places in the world. There are also a quite a number of elegant
                                    Public Buildings here
                                    M.S.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              West Point
                           
                                    January 14th/49
                                
                        Friend Ezra
                        Your very acceptable excellent and interesting Letter of September last came duly to
                                    hand and although I have constantly kept it with my list of unanswered Letters and
                                    been trying ever since to get a good opportunity for answering it this is in fact
                                    the first time I have seen and the only way I get time at the present is by taking it. You will therefore not consider me unmindful of you or
                                    generally tardy in answering Letters but ascribe it to the true cause a want of time. But I must look out lest as you say my introduction will be
                                        
                              
                                 28 Theodore J. Cushing (1830–1855) of Le
                                            Roy and sisters Sarah, Caroline, and Maria, and two Richard Waits, father
                                            and son, ages forty and six respectively, appear in the 1850 manuscript
                                            census for Le Roy. Wait pere served the local Methodist
                                            church as pastor. Thanks to Lynn Belluscio of the Le Roy Historical Society
                                            for information on the Cushings.
                           
                                     longer than the afterpart as I have not time to
                                    write a very lengthy Letter. but merely to give you a general idea of matters and
                                    things at present. When I wrote you before I was living in Camp I believe. On the
                                    first of September we came again into Barracks and commenced our studies.
                        Our studies from September to January are Davies Bourden Algebra throughout
                                    "Sturms Theorum"29 and all. English Grammar
                                    and Geography. In Geography we had to learn to draw all the States of the US. on the
                                    Blackboard without looking on the map putting down all the Rivers towns &c
                                    of any note and they were equally Scientific in the other Studies We had to complete
                                    these in the four months and are then examined. You are probably aware that if we
                                    are found deficient at this examination we are dismissed as at the one for
                                    admission. Our Class (consisting of all those that came in last June) numbered about
                                    Eighty at first. Of these two were found deficient at the Examination for admission
                                    ten resigned between Sept and January for fear of being found at that time and
                                    thirteen were found deficient at the Examination so that we have already got reduced
                                    down to sixty five and I expect that before we graduate we will be reduced down to
                                    one half of our original no as this is generally the case with every class that
                                    comes on here. We have a standing made out in both Mathematics and Ethics (Grammar
                                    and Geography) at the Examination and from these one general standing in the Class
                                    is made out.
                        I came out sixteenth in Mathematics and twenty sixth in Ethics which makes me
                                    Nineteenth in general standing This is considered to be a very good standing and
                                    indeed considering the advantages I have heretofore had for getting an Education in
                                    comparison with the Majority of our class it is as well as I did or could expect to
                                    do. However I am in hopes that by strict attention to my studies &c I shall
                                    be able to approximate rather nearer to the Head before I graduate
                                    if that event should ever happen You have probably seen by the papers that General
                                        Scott30 presented to the Military Academy all the Trophies
                                    in the line of Banners Flag Staffs &c that he captured in Mexico: if not
                                    such is the case They arrived here two or three weeks ago and on New Years we were
                                    all turned out 
                              
                                 29 Charles Davies (1798–1876) taught at
                                            West Point from 1823 to 1837. His Elements of Algebra:
                                                Translated from the French of M. Bourdon. Revised and Adapted to the
                                                Courses of Mathematical Instruction in the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                  was first published in 
                                                New York
                                             in 1835 and was a standard mathematics text. Jacque Charles
                                            François Sturm (1803–1855) was a noted mathematician
                                            whose work was translated and published. See On the Solution of
                                                Numerical Equations, by C. Sturm. Translated from the Memoires Presentes
                                                par Divers Savans a I'Academie Royale des Sciences de
                                                l'Institut de 
                                                    France
                                                , by W. H. Spiller (
                                                London
                                            , 1835). For the mathematics curriculum at West Point see
                                            Florian Cajori, The Teaching and History of Mathematics in the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                  (
                                                Washington, D.C.
                                            , 1890), 118–26.
                              
                                 30 Winfield Scott (1786–1866), though not a
                                            graduate, was a staunch supporter of the academy against the
                                            institution's foes during his many years of service in the
                                        army.
                           
                                     and marched down to the Dock in great style to
                                    receive them There was about forty of them and some of them were completely riddled
                                    with Ball holes. After we had got back to the Academic Building with them an address
                                    from the President was read by one of the Officers stating the several reasons why
                                    it had been thought proper to present them to the Military Academy &c. the
                                    most important of which was the fact that its graduates were so auxiliary to their
                                    capture. In short the whole affair passed off finely and I wish you could have
                                    witnessed it.—Our studies from this until June are the French Language
                                    Blairs Rhetoric31 Geometry and Trigonometry. Our Instructors are
                                    all graduates of this place and are the best I ever saw. But more at another time
                                    Give my respects to Mr Cushings people especially the girls and in
                                    fact to the "fair sex" generally Give my best
                                    Respects to your people with whom I have the pleasure of a partial acquaintance Tell
                                    all my friends I would be very happy to hear from them and dont fail to write
                                    yourself at the earliest convenient opportunity and believe me as in days of old
                        
                                    Your Sincere Friend
                                    Milo S. Hascall
                                
                        Ezra S. Janes Esq. P.S. Tell Charlie Alderman and Silah Longworthy32 that I am wanting to hear from them very much. Please send me
                                    the Gazette33 occasionally. M.S.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              U.S.M.A. West Point
                           
                                    April 22nd, 1849
                                
                        Dear Friend Ezra
                        After the lapse of so long a time I will now make a commencement to answering your
                                    very welcome and excellent Letter of February last. You will have to excuse me for
                                    not doing so at an earlier date as I am kept constantly engaged with my studies and
                                    Military duties. I was much pleased with your account of your School and indeed with
                                    all that was the subject of your Epistle. I will know how to estimate your cares and
                                    anxieties which you experienced in the School, having had some experience in the
                                    Business myself. You 
                              
                                 31 Hugh Blair (1718–1800), Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres, by Hugh Blair; with a Memoir
                                                of the Author's Life; to which are Added Copious Questions and
                                                an Analysis of Each Lecture, by Abraham Mills (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1833).
                              
                                 32 A Sanford Longworthy, age fourteen, appears in the
                                            1850 manuscript census for Le Roy.
                              
                                 33 Hascall refers to the Le Roy Gazette.
                           
                                     must have had as good a time as could be
                                    expected in that line of business, as your school was quite small, My school
                                    averaged about Eighty all the time though I was furnished a "female" Assistant Teacher I got $24 pr Month
                                    which together with my assistant compensated in some degree for the inconvenience
                                    and trouble of a great number.34 I suppose you have now got Back
                                    to your old home again, in the blessed Land of our Nativity. I
                                    would like to be there awhile with you and take a tour among all the old Friends
                        Matters and things are moving on with us here about the same as usual ie "Boning" and Drilling. We call studying boning and it is a very proper name for it at West Point. Our Studies from
                                    last January to June next, when will occur the Annual Examination of all the classes
                                    are Geometry, Trigonometry (plane & spherical), Descriptive Geometry, the
                                    French Language, and Blairs Rhetoric, together with a review of the course we had
                                    before January We have to finish all these except the French Language and a small
                                    portion of the Descriptive Geometry and get done by the first of June so that you
                                    will readily perceive that we have very little time for lying "upon our oars" We have to study French a year and a
                                    half which will keep us at it all next year. When we first began French I could not
                                    get along with it very well and was somewhat afraid that it would be the means of
                                    giving me an "indefinite Leave of Absence" next
                                    June, but I am getting along with it rather better nowadays and think that I shall
                                    not have any difficulty in getting along with it sufficiently well to keep from
                                    being found, though I never expect to stand well in French. I am getting along very
                                    well with the other studies and I think that I can do well enough in them to make up
                                    for what I lose in French, so that I believe now that instead of being found in June, I shall be able to stand as high in the Class as I do at
                                    present. Descriptive Geometry is a very curious and I think very interesting study.
                                    It deals principally with immensity of Space and of course gives rise to some
                                    sublime ideas. When you go down to Samsons Book store ask him to let you see one of
                                    the Books, and then look at some of the Plates along through it, you can then form
                                    something of an idea how we have to "Bone" to
                                    get over it in the very short time allotted to the study of it. Our class have now
                                    been here most a year and at the end of the year we shall become third classmen We
                                    will then have a much better time in a great many respects The Cadets are always
                                    called "Plebes" the first year they are here,
                                    and have all the little camp Duties to perform which are sometimes rather
                                    disagreeable. We shall be freed from all such things this next Encampment can attend
                                    all the parties &c and are considered emphatically "some" as soon as we enter upon our third 
                              
                                 34 Apparently Janes had a teaching job.
                                            Hascall's totals for students taught swelled from that given in his
                                            first letter.
                           
                                     Class year. The new "Plebe Class" or those who have rcd Cadet Appointments
                                    this Spring will begin to come on now in about a month and it will afford us
                                    infinite amusement to see them perform while becoming initiated into the Military.
                                    There will be sixteen Corporals made out of our class as soon as they come on whose
                                    duty it will be to give them their first Lessons in Military life. We are taught to
                                    Dance here during every Encampment Dancing is looked upon in a different light here
                                    from what it is in LeRoy. A person here can dance and belong to the Church at the
                                    same time. We have a splendid church and excellent Minister (of the Presbyterian
                                        Denomination)35 and are required to attend church without
                                    fail every sabbath We have dancing parties three nights a week during Encampment.
                                    The Ladies that attend are some of the most respectable from all parts of the U.S.
                                    but principally from 
                                        New York City
                                     on account of the proximity of the place. We have a fine Dancing Hall
                                    in a Building three hundred feet long and the Cadets with their white pants grey
                                    coats and glistening Bell Buttons and withal excellent dancing,
                                    present no mean appearance. I wish you could be here a while next Encampment as I
                                    think you would see much that would be interesting to you. But more at another time.
                                    Give my Respects to your People, to John36 and Theodore Cushing
                                    and to the girls of course. Please write soon let me hear all the
                                    news and believe me as ever
                        
                                    Your Friend
                                    Milo S. Hascall
                                
                        E.S. Janes Esq. P.S. Remind Silah Longworthy that he has never written to
                                    me tell him I want to hear from him very much Dont fail to write at your earliest
                                    convenience
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Military Academy West Point
                           
                                    Jan 26th/50
                                
                        Mon Cher Ezra
                        Your last Letter was duly recd a long time ago and should have been answered much
                                    more "promptement" I really cannot conceive
                                        
                              
                                 35 William T. Sprole (1809–1883) was
                                            chaplain and taught the ethics course at the academy from 1845 to 1856. He
                                            was removed from the school chiefly for not being an Episcopalian, the
                                            predominate denomination of the faculty. Fearlessly outspoken in his
                                            sermons, Sprole condemned the teachings of "God-hating
                                            geologists" on the faculty. Morrison, "The
                                                Best School in the World," 57, 85.
                              
                                 36 Hascall apparently was not yet aware that his
                                            friend, John Cushing (1822–1849), had died in February.
                           
                                     how or why I have put off the Answering of it
                                    so long but rest assured of one thing i.e. that it is not because I have found this
                                    an uninteresting correspondence, or because I have not cared to know of your
                                    whereabouts—how you are getting along &c Indeed I would like very
                                    well to know all these things & was it not for the desire I have for hearing
                                    from you I fear I should never get about writing to you. But as you remarked in one
                                    of your communications to me, I must stop this kind of style of perorative excuses
                                    &c lest it may be the principal part of my Letter. I see by the papers that
                                    considerable excitement prevails in Western 
                                        N.Y.
                                     on account of the existence of some Knocking geniuses in the shape of 2
                                    women who pretend to be the representatives of departed spirits37 I wish you would give me a little insight into the matter in your answer to
                                    this tell me what you may have seen or know about it together with your opinions on
                                    the [?]
                        With regard to things at West Point it is about the same old story with us as when I
                                    wrote you before. Considerable excitement has been prevalent with us along back on
                                    account of that scourge to deficient cadets the January Examination Quite a no of
                                    Cadets have been found deficient & dismissed at this Examination Our class
                                    have done remarkably well since coming into Barracks last September and not one of
                                    our No. was found deficient at the recent Examination. Our class were examined on
                                    Analytical & Descriptive Geometry Shades, Shadows & Perspective. The
                                    French Language & Drawing. I have been doing very well in my studies since
                                    September & if I keep on doing as well until the Annual Examination in June
                                    next I shall at least maintain my present standing in my class. I now stand
                                    fifteenth in Mathematics our principal & altogether most important study I
                                    am still getting along very well
                        I have risen above Cadet Bonaparte since last Sept and now stand twelfth.38 I stand 32nd in French and 25th in Drawing but these are not
                                    very vital studies and as long as I can stand pretty high in Math I can maintain a
                                    good standing in my class. Our studies from January to June are the finishing of
                                    Shades, Shadows, & Perspective. Differential & Integral Calculus,
                                    Surveying, Drawing, & the French Language
                        It is now only about 5 months before our class can go on furlough & we are
                                    making extensive calculations on going Two years is sometime to stay away from home
                                    especially when one is confined & regulated as we are
                                    here. Dancing is thought to be an innocent 
                              
                                 37 The activities (later admitted to be fraudulent) of
                                            the Fox sisters of 
                                    Hydesville, New
                                                York
                                 , in the spring of 1848 and several years
                                            thereafter fueled the rapid growth of spiritualism in the 
                                                United States
                                             and Europe in the nineteenth century. See Cross, The Burned-Ouer District, 345ff.
                              
                                 38 Hascall's final class standing at
                                            graduation in 1852 was fourteenth in a class of forty-three. Bonaparte beat
                                            him out and finished eleventh.
                           
                                     and graceful accomplishment at this place and
                                    we are preparing ourselves to do something at that branch on furlough We meet every
                                    other evening & practice dancing half an hour so you see we ought to be able
                                    to do pretty well by furlough I long for the time to come when I can once more be
                                    with you all & I really dont see what the reason is a person cannot enjoy
                                    himself while on furlough But I cannot write more at present. Give my Respects to
                                    Theodore Cushing and the Girls "in connu" Give
                                    my best Respects to your people & all my friends Remember me in particular
                                    to all the "sex" Dont fail to write as soon as
                                    convenient—give me all the news & for your prosperity &
                                    happiness accept the best wishes of your friend
                        
                                    Milo S. Hascall
                                    Cadet
                                
                        E. S. Janes Esq.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana's African-American Heritage: Essays from Black History News and
                        Notes. Edited by Wilma L. Gibbs. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1993. Pp. xix, 243. Notes, illustrations, map, index.
                    Clothbound, $27.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            This collection of sixteen essays treats a wide range of topics related to the history of African
                    Americans in Indiana from the antebellum era to the present. Skillfully edited and rationally
                    organized, the collection is introduced by a perceptive foreword by Richard Blackett. The thirteen
                    contributors have presented the results of their research in clear and often graceful prose. Their
                    skill in historical sleuthing is especially evident in Xenia Cord's analysis of rural black
                    settlements prior to 1860, Earline Rae Ferguson's study of black 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the same era, and Marvin D. Jeter's sketch of H. J. Lewis, an illustrator
                    and reputedly the nation's "first black political cartoonist" (p. 161).
            In one way or another these essays focus on African-American efforts to build institutions and
                    community autonomy and on individual and collective achievements in the face of great odds, as
                    demonstrated in particular by the essays on clergyman John H. Clay, editor Julius Holder, artist
                    William Edouard Scott, and architect Samuel Plato. That Indiana, a free state often viewed as a
                    haven by blacks from the South, witnessed the emergence of virulent racism early in its history is
                    dramatized by the fate that befell James Overall and John Tucker in 1838 and 1845. Stanley
                    Warren's essay on the evolution of the segregated Crispus Attucks High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Gloria Gibson-Hudson's study of the origins of the Walker Theatre in that
                    city suggest the persistence of a pervasive racism.
            Several contributions by and about women are especially noteworthy. For example, Emma Lou Thornbrough
                    provides a highly informative overview of the important part played by Indiana's black
                    women in building institutions and combating discrimination and suggests new areas worthy of
                    exploration. Ferguson's skillfully drawn portrait of Lillian Thomas Fox, journalist and
                    clubwoman, and Gibson-Hudson's references to the role of Madam C. J. Walker and her
                    daughter in the creation of Walker Theatre corroborate Thornbrough's observation about the
                    central role of women. Wilma L. Gibbs's two essays describe the diverse activities of women
                    in retrieving the history of black Hoosiers, while Cord's discussion of documents filed by
                    black residents of Indiana in connection with applications submitted under the Cherokee Restitution
                    Appropriation of 1906 reveals an important new avenue for research in African-American family
                    history.
            
            
               STUDENTS
                        AT SCHOOL NO. 24 IN
                            INDIANAPOLIS ENGAGE
                        IN
                        A 1909 MAY DAY CELEBRATION.
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Neg. no. C2245.
            
            
               STUDENTS
                        AT LYLES STATION, GIBSON COUNTY, INDIANA
               
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Neg. no. C2185.
            
            
            Everyone interested in the rich and diverse African-American experience—and indeed in the
                    American experience—will read this attractive volume with much pleasure and great profit.
            WILLARD B. GATEWOOD, alumni distinguished professor of
                    history, University of 
                        Arkansas
                    , Fayetteville, is the editor of Slave and Freeman: The Autobiography of
                        George L. Knox (1979) and the author of Aristocrats of Color: The Black Elite,
                        1880–1920 (1990).
         
         
            
               Hard Pieces: Dan Carpenter's Indiana. By Dan Carpenter. Edited by David
                    Hoppe. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. xv, 212. Clothbound, $24.95;
                    paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Hard Pieces is a collection of over seventy columns that Dan Carpenter published
                    between 1981 and 1992 in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. Short, colorful, controversial, and incisive, they serve as a good
                    introduction to the author's interests, preferences, and passions. Carpenter is clearly
                    interested in people, especially in individuals at the fringes where headlines are seldom made.
                    Heavily based upon interviews, his essays show an ear for dialogue and an eye for telling detail,
                    infusing personality and substance into brief sketches. Whether the subject is the custodian of a
                    rural statue honoring the civil air patrol ("Sleeping Safe"), a circus performer
                    who made his living being shot from a cannon ("The Great Wilno"), or Dick the
                    Bruiser touring a veterans' hospital ("Most Dangerous Wrestler"), the
                    result is a personality eloquently encapsulated. The essays are grouped into five sections that
                    focus upon Carpenter's interests in the vanishing rural scene ("Crossroads and
                    Cul-de-sacs"), the changing urban environment ("Corners"), the world of
                    athletics ("Games"), the fleeting nature of fame ("Names"), and
                    his own perceptions of the price of boosterism ("Reflections").
            A foe of progress at the expense of personal values, Carpenter often turns to subjects that explore
                    the profound sense of loss that can permeate individual or community experience. His essay on the
                    Emil Platzer properties ("Haunted Houses") is an outstanding example, as are the
                    varied essays on his southside 
                        Indianapolis
                     boyhood. David Hoppe's introduction correctly places Carpenter in that
                    enduring school of Hoosier writers whose central concern is the fragility of public and personal
                    self-images at the moments they contradict changing community attitudes and interests. It would be
                    equally appropriate to identify in Carpenter's writing the blend of nostalgia and
                    skepticism that stands as the key Hoosier challenge to the booster spirit. In the best Hoosier style
                    of self-deprecation, Carpenter acknowledges his label of "house liberal" (p. xiii)
                    at the Star. It is obvious, however, that he draws upon much more varied sources.
                    Entertaining and controversial, his Hard Pieces make for good reading.
            GEORGE W. GEIB is professor of history, Butler University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is a contributing editor, for politics and political history, to the forthcoming
                        Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               .
         
         
         
            
               SINISQUA
                        AND HER CHILDREN
               
               
                  
                            Tippecanoe County
                         Historical Association, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana. Gift of Mrs. Cable G. Ball.
            
            
               Indians and a Changing Frontier: The Art of George Winter. Catalog of the George
                    Winter Collection located at the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Compiled by Sarah E. Cooke and Rachel B. Ramadhyani. Essays by Christian F.
                    Feest and R. David Edmunds. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, in cooperation with the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association, 1993. Pp. [xiii], 269. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $49.95.)
            George Winter (1809–1876), an English-born artist of modest talent, is remembered
                    primarily for his drawings of Potawatomi and Miami Indians. While living for a time in 
                        Ohio
                    , Winter learned of the pending removal by the federal government of the Potawatomi to
                    lands west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Impulsively, he rushed to Indiana in time to record one of the saddest moments in
                    Potawatomi history.
            Winter came to Indiana thinking he would linger a few months and remained, instead, for the rest of
                    his life. He died in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1876. Winter worked in pencil, oil, and watercolor. He tried his hand at
                    portraiture, landscape, and still life. As an artist he  enjoyed
                    little financial success and, during his lifetime, even less public acclaim. He merits recognition
                    today for his accurate depiction of the Potawatomi and Miami Indians at a critical moment in their
                    history. Winter filled several sketchbooks with eyewitness drawings of these Native Americans in a
                    transitional state between their traditional life ways and their acculturation to the dominant
                    society. He sketched women and children as well as prominent leaders. His drawings demonstrate that
                    these tribes, for the most part, had already achieved a high degree of acculturation. Many were
                    financially successful, even by the white standards of the day.
            Although Winter's drawings are not great art, they are invaluable ethnographic documents and
                    merit the lavish treatment they have received in this grand and handsome publication. Indeed, the
                    publishers could not have done better in their choice of essayists. Christian F. Feest, who profiles
                    Winter's life and artistic attainments, is chair of North American Indian ethnology studies
                    at the University of 
                        Frankfort
                    . R. David Edmunds, a member of the history faculty of Indiana University, is the
                    foremost authority on the Potawatomi. His thoughtful and insightful essay examines Winter's
                    work from an ethnographic perspective. As Edmunds correctly points out, Winter's
                    "depictions of Indian costumes and daily life are unsurpassed" and provide
                    "the best visual record of Native American life in Indiana during this period (p. 37).
            This elegantly published volume includes a catalog that is as complete as possible of
                    Winter's ethnographic drawings as well as other items of interest to Hoosiers including
                    sketches of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battlefield and individuals of importance in Indiana history. Of particular interest
                    are the drawings of Frances Slocum, a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     n captured as a child by 
                        Delaware
                     Indians. Then living with the Miamis, she allowed Winter to paint her portrait, which
                    had been commissioned by her brother when she refused to give up her Indian way of life and return
                    to her family.
            This volume is a must for libraries and anyone interested in the history of America's native
                    peoples.
            HERMAN J. VIOLA is director of anthropology and
                    archaeology, Smithsonian Institution, 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    
            
         
         
            
               Boats Against the Current: American Culture Between Revolution and Modernity,
                        1820–1860. By Lewis Perry. (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 1993. Pp. xii, 332. Notes, index. $35.00.)
            In this richly nuanced, insightful, and often brilliant study, Lewis Perry situates the origin of
                    modern American culture in Jacksonian society. Perry eschews traditional literary analysis and
                    cultural icons for social experiences and collective voices. He portrays an emerging modernist
                    culture arising from a protean world  constantly in motion and
                    continually in the process of evolution and self-definition.
            A highly mobile lot, traveling widely at home and abroad, Jacksonians "were shuttles weaving
                    a new civilization" (p. 129). In their diaries, travelogues, and memoirs, antebellum
                    Americans embraced a collective outlook that was at once doggedly optimistic about persistent
                    improvement and anxiously adrift "in a sea of uncertainty" (p. 215). They
                    recorded, reflected, and pondered the tensions noted by Europeans such as Alexis de Tocqueville and
                    Fredrika Bremer between a leveling democracy and the uncertain potential of a fluid society driven
                    by slavery.
            Perry maintains that historical landmarks provided Jacksonians with few relevant guideposts in their
                    voyage into this unknown future. If all paid homage to heroic forebears, few saw any timeless moral
                    lessons issuing from the revolutionary experience. Jacksonians, emphasizing the here and now,
                    increasingly viewed history as irrelevant and became largely indifferent to it.
            Determined to break with and be free from the dead hand of tradition, post-revolutionary Americans
                    created for themselves an ever-shifting present that was flexible and progressive, and which
                    encompassed (or was defined by) a plurality of relative moral perspectives. Lacking a cultural
                    tradition either inherited or imposed from above, Americans spoke in a variety of languages (or
                    vernaculars) and adopted multiple personas that allowed them to cope with "a highly complex
                    pattern of inconsistent roles" required by modernity (p. 171). Locating a permanent core of
                    values became problematic, however. If Jacksonians insisted that life in America was grand, the
                    process of creating and transforming a New World caused apprehension in more than a few.
            While Perry limns the essence of what America was to become, he is less clear about what it once was.
                    That something was lost in this process of modernization is apparent; what values inhered to that
                    earlier communal society are not. The agents of change are at best inferred, and the transformation
                    of antebellum society is described rather than explained. Finally, although Perry skillfully and
                    persuasively links the contradictions and tensions of the Jacksonian world to the present, it is
                    also worth noting that one thread that connects them—optimism about the future and
                    uncertainty and ambivalence about the direction and meaning of change—is woven throughout
                    American history.
            For all of this, Perry has written an ambitious, thought-provoking, and important reinterpretation of
                    antebellum American culture. Historians of Jacksonian America and modern social critics will benefit
                    equally from his erudition.
            MICHAEL A. MORRISON is assistant professor of history,
                    Purdue University, 
                        West Lafayette
                    , Indiana, and the coeditor of New Perspectives on the Early Republic:
                        Essays from the Journal of the Early Republic, 1981–1991
                    (1994). He is currently at work on a book-length manuscript on the territorial issue and
                    sectionalism in American politics from 1844 to 1861.
         
         
         
            
               To Sow One Acre More: Childbearing and Farm Productivity in the Antebellum
                    North. By Lee A. Craig. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1993. Pp. xii, 161. Tables, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $28.50.)
            Families in the 
                        United States
                     and Europe produced diminishing numbers of children in the nineteenth and twentieth
                    centuries. Lee A. Craig briefly surveys the scholarly literature on this subject and devotes most of
                    his pages to one of its subtopics, falling birthrates among northern American farmers before the
                    Civil War. His book explains why farmers chose to diminish their family sizes and why that kind of
                    fertility dropped further in the Northeast than it did in the Midwest or on frontiers.
            There were a number of reasons for this reduction in family size. Knowledge of contraception was
                    widespread by the mid-nineteenth century; people born in the 
                        United States
                     practiced it more than did some immigrants, but immigrants and natives both used it in
                    the Northeast more than they did in midwestern and frontier areas of the North. The growing amount
                    of time that children throughout the North spent in schools added to the cost of raising them while
                    reducing the amount of work that they did for their parents. Moreover, women had an increasing
                    number of opportunities away from their families' homes; getting freedom to pursue them was
                    a reason for limiting births. After briefly examining these and other factors, Craig concludes that
                    they influenced the numbers of children families chose to have but are not "sufficient
                    explanations of the pattern of rural fertility in the early nineteenth century &"
                    (p. 20).
            The search for "sufficient explanations" concentrates on economics, which happens
                    to be Craig's academic specialty. Readers who are uncomfortable with economics as
                    literature should be assured that the author's language is not dauntingly technical.
                    Although his tables and mathematical statements, which sometimes express ideas that would be clear
                    enough in ordinary writing, can slow the pace of reading, they do not stop it. Apart from the third
                    and last appendix, "An Economic Model of Farm Family Fertility," which really
                    demands mathematical literacy, Craig's work should be clear to everyone who is interested
                    in the history of farm people.
            The book emphasizes farm children's economic value to their parents. They helped to clear
                    land in new farm areas and contributed still more by helping to raise crops and produce dairy
                    products in settled country. They were also, however, "net costs to their parents in every
                    region of the antebellum North (p. 91), especially in the Northeast where the birthrate dropped
                    most. Northeastern children helped with dairying and truck gardening, specialties that grew when
                    western competition drove northeastern farmers away from grain production, but they were also
                    increasingly likely to spend their adulthoods on western farms or in urban jobs. They worked, but
                    the chance that they would be on hand to care for aging  farms
                    and parents declined. "So broadly speaking," Craig concludes, "the value
                    of children did correspond to East-West differences in fertility rates" (p. 104).
            Students of Indiana history will find no extensive discussions of their state in this book, but its
                    comparisons of northern regions provide a setting for information about the Midwest, including
                    Indiana and neighboring 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . Because Indiana still lacks a general history of its farming, this book's
                    facts about crops and their prices, farm wages, and farm children are valuable. Its fine
                    bibliographical essay and endnotes will also be helpful to students of rural, specifically rural
                    Indiana, history.
            DONALD B. MARTI is associate professor of history, Indiana
                    University 
                        South Bend
                    . His studies of agriculture include Women of the Grunge (1991) and
                    current research on Kenyon Butterfield (1868–1935), a rural sociologist and president of
                    agricultural colleges.
         
         
            "No Sorrow Like Our Sorrow": Northern Protestant Ministers and the
                        Assassination of Lincoln. By David B. Chesebrough. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : Kent State
                    University Press, 1994. Pp. xxii, 200. Tables, illustrations, appendix, notes, annotated
                    bibliography, index. $24.00.)
            Robert E. Lee surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant on April 9, 1865, and for five straight days
                    northerners reveled in the victory. Church bells clanged, fireworks brightened the nights, parades
                    ribboned village streets. The celebrating ceased abruptly, however, when word spread of what had
                    happened at Ford's Theatre on the night of Good Friday, April 14. With the assassination of
                    Abraham Lincoln a sudden transformation of mood gripped the nation. As northerners sought meaning in
                    that dark moment, they streamed to their churches, looking to their pastors for comfort, guidance,
                    some understanding of it all.
            Their pastoral needs did not go unmet. As David B. Chesebrough demonstrates in this penetrating
                    account of the preaching ministry of hundreds of Protestant clergy, congregations heard ministers
                    struggle with the irrationality of that horrific event and with the role of God within it. Like
                    Chesebrough's earlier assessment of preaching during the sectional crisis, "God Ordained This War" (1991), the present volume illustrates the value
                    of sermons as historical documents. Recognizing the vital role that preachers played as molders and
                    reflectors of nineteenth-century public opinion, Chesebrough examines 340 sermons delivered during
                    the seven passion-filled weeks after the assassination, including over a hundred hastily prepared
                    for "Black Easter," the day after the president's death. His analysis
                    provides an illuminating glimpse of public reaction to the assassination and, particularly, of the
                    impact of theology on that response.
            
            Chesebrough organizes his findings thematically. Naturally, the predominant strain running through
                    the preachers' messages was that of grief. Unashamed to display their personal sorrow,
                    pastors identified with their parishioners' mourning. They exhibited elements of what
                    pastoral counselors call the "grief process," including the tendency to elevate
                    the deceased in mythical terms and to vent anger over the injustice of his death. Consequently,
                    preachers praised Lincoln's character, describing his "grandeur of soul"
                    (p. 171, his role as emancipator, and his similarity to Moses, who never reached the promised land
                    but led his people to it. At the same time they called for justice against the perpetrators of the
                    crime. Many saw John Wilkes Booth as but "a small cog" (p. 41) and the Confederacy
                    itself as the true murderer. Preachers' hearts hardened against southerners, and they
                    issued harsh demands for retribution. Indeed, Chesebrough contends that the northern clergy were the
                    most vindictive and punitive group in the region. Theologically, the ministers couched all these
                    views in an overarching belief that the entire tragedy should be seen as providential. In his finest
                    chapter Chesebrough delineates the many ways in which the clergy saw God's hand
                    purposefully at work in Lincoln's death.
            Throughout the study are some gems of historical interpretation: insightful accounts of the
                    vacillating views ministers held regarding Lincoln's presidential performance, of the
                    clergy's concern that the assassination occurred in such a sinful place as a theater, and
                    of the connections pastors drew between Lincoln's Holy Week death and America's
                    millenial vision. Although Chesebrough's desire to let the preachers speak for themselves
                    produces a myriad of lengthy quotes, and leads at times to redundancy, his inclusion of a rich
                    annotated bibliography of sermons will be a boon to scholars. In short, the volume exhibits
                    impressive research, contributes many new insights, and is a welcome addition to the growing body of
                    scholarship on Civil War religion.
            LLOYD A. HUNTER is professor of history and religion at
                    Franklin College of Indiana. A student of the interplay of church and culture, he is working on a
                    study of that phenomenon in post-Civil War Dixie, The Sacred South: The Culture
                        Religion of the Immortal Confederacy.
         
         
            
               The Mississippi Valley's Great Yellow Fever Epidemic of
                        1878. By Khaled J. Bloom. (
                  Baton Rouge:
                            Louisiana State
                University Press, 1993.
                    Pp. x, 290. Notes, index. $29.95.)
            A tide of yellow fever washed across the American South in 1878, surging up the Mississippi
                        Valley, and lapping at the southern borders of 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    . The 1870s were a decade of increasing expertise in some areas of medicine, but not in
                    this one: the mosquito vector still was unknown, preventive measures still much in debate, and the
                    panic attending mass death shackled  attempts to stem the
                    epidemic. Between seventeen and twenty thousand people died in the 
                        United States
                    , as many as six thousand in 
                  Memphis,
                            Tennessee
               , alone. More than one
                    physician echoed the traditional lay belief that this dread fever, signalled by a distinctive yellow
                    cast to the skin, was the "King of Terrors."
            Khaled J. Bloom has written a careful, well-informed account of this epidemic, based principally on
                    the disease's impact on 
                        Memphis
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    . He makes good use of the many public documents produced by physicians, public health
                    officials, and city governments who tried to understand what was happening to their communities and
                    what possibly could help. Relying on these sources, along with newspaper and medical journal
                    accounts, Bloom tells a story somewhat familiar to students of epidemic disease. It is a story of
                    two intersecting plots. First, there were the competing etiological explanations of the disease
                    (insects were mentioned by some observers as possibly important, but only among a welter of other
                    speculations) and, second, the haphazard attempts to formulate government measures of control
                    (covering the streets and the trees with carbolic acid wash, for instance).
            Bloom's is a straight-ahead outlook in which the disease itself is the protagonist,
                    outwitting causal explanation and prevention at every turn. Indeed, at times yellow fever almost
                    seems to have a kind of intelligence of its own, so strong is Bloom's vision of its power
                    and its path through the South. This focus, while dramatic and clear, sometimes tends to draw
                    attention away from human agency. For example, the reasons why public health policy did or did not
                    change during the course of this epidemic (and a milder one that followed in 1879) are not clearly
                    explained, nor are the points of view of ordinary citizens and their physicians much discussed.
                    Although yellow fever morbidity and mortality in terms of race (as a key to the South's
                    social and cultural distinctiveness) are mentioned, they are not interpreted at length.
            This foreshortening of the social context for disease notwithstanding, Bloom's study rewards
                    the reader with careful research, a clear storyline, and an admirable appreciation for those in the
                    public arena who tried but failed to drive disease away.
            STEVEN M. STOWE, associate professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is completing a study of physicians, patients, and the burden of illness in the
                    nineteenth-century South. He co-directs the university's Center for the History of
                    Medicine.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Prairie
                         Populism: The Fate of Agrarian Radicalism in 
                     Kansas, Nebraska
                  ,
                        and 
                            Iowa
                        , 1880–1892. By Jeffrey Ostler. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1993. Pp. xii, 256. Maps, tables, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            In this well-researched book Jeffrey Ostler asks why the People's party was strong in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     but not in 
                        Iowa
                    .  Why did Populism's prairie fire not leap eastward across the Missouri River?
            His answer is that economic conditions do not fully account for the difference between 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                    's Populism and that of 
                        Iowa
                    . Farmers were in trouble in all three states; conditions in eastern 
                        Nebraska
                     and 
                        Kansas
                     were not very different from conditions in western and central 
                        Iowa
                     or, for that matter, in 
                        Missouri
                    . "The crucial difference & was party competition" (p. 10),
                    specifically that the 
                        Iowa
                     Republican party absorbed or co-opted agrarian protest while the 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     Republican party refused to do so. Farmers in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     had nowhere to go except to a third party; in 
                        Iowa
                     farmer demands were espoused (at least moderately) by the Democrats and their fusionist
                    affiliates.
            Ostler sets the question and answer in his first chapter, then provides a balanced and accurate
                    survey of farm economics across the three states. If a fault line existed between difficulty and
                    disaster, it was along the 98th meridian, not the Missouri River; conditions in
                    eastern 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     were about as bad as in much of 
                        Iowa
                    . After carefully examining debt levels, currency scarcity, corn prices, drought,
                    freight rates, and mortgage frequency, Ostler affirms that economics underlaid third-party
                    formation. But it was not the whole story; state level politics were crucial, too. The author then
                    describes the 
                        Iowa
                     situation between 1885 and 1889: how Democratic-Greenbacker fusion interrupted
                    Republican complacency, and how the 
                        Iowa
                     Farmers' Alliance successfully nudged some Republicans in the direction of
                    railroad rate reform. With both parties receptive to some degree farmers were less inclined to form
                    a third party.
            In 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    , however, Republican leadership was deaf in 1889 and 1890: "The failure of the
                    GOP to make even modest concessions tipped the scales toward forming a new state party" (p.
                    111). Ostler justly credits women for some Alliance and People's party successes in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     though not in 
                        Iowa
                    . In 1890 
                        Kansas
                     Republican Senator John J. Ingalls mocked the Alliance and was defeated, but 
                        Iowa
                     Republican William B. Allison importuned the Alliance and was reelected. The two
                    leading 
                        Iowa
                     radicals, James B. Weaver and Luman Weller, feuded; the People's party of 
                        Iowa
                     never got off the ground.
            Based on extensive original sources as well as judicious assessments of the secondary literature,
                    Ostler's book will quickly become part of the standard bibliography on midwestern Populism.
            WALTER NUGENT is Andrew V. Tackes professor of history,
                    University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. He is the
                    author of Crossings: The Great Transatlantic Migrations, 1870–1914
                    (1992).
         
         
         
            
               Cities of the Heartland: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Midwest. By Jon C.
                    Teaford. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. xii, 300. Tables, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $39.95.)
            During recent years scholars have examined the American urban experience from regional perspectives
                    and have produced valuable studies of the urban South and West. Now Jon C. Teaford has focused
                    attention on the cities of the Midwest. The result is a useful book that is thoroughly researched
                    and engagingly written, although it occasionally delivers slightly less than it seems to promise.
            The Urban Heartland, as Teaford defines it, includes the cities in the states of the Old Northwest
                    plus 
                        St. Louis
                    . These places, he claims, constitute "a legitimate subspecies of urban
                    life" (p. xii). To organize this large and complex subject he uses the metaphor of the life
                    cycle, tracing the region's urban development from birth ("Creating the Urban
                    Network") to old age ("The Making of the Rust Belt"). His treatment is
                    thus essentially chronological although some topical chapters permit more in-depth consideration of
                    such issues as urban culture. The author's view of the Midwest's urban life course
                    is neatly summarized when he writes: "In the decades before the Civil War, the heartland
                    cities had shared a consciousness of the interior as frontier; by 1900 they shared a sense of the
                    interior as central to American life; at the close of the 1970s they all feared an emerging vision
                    of the interior as void (p. xi).
            The strength of Cities of the Heartland is not the originality of the subjects
                    examined; the growth of the region's river and lake cities in the antebellum decades is a
                    well-known story, and the Rust Belt has been discussed ad nauseam. Rather, the volume is notable for
                    its breadth of coverage and the range of documentation upon which it is based. With the exception
                    noted below, Teaford draws his examples from many cities of all sizes, and his footnotes reveal that
                    he consulted a truly impressive variety of sources. Indiana cities are reasonably well represented;
                            
                  Evansville, Fort
                            Wayne
               , Gary, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     all receive multiple mentions, and many other Hoosier communities are listed in the
                    index. (In the index, but not the text, 
                        East Chicago
                     is mistakenly located in 
                        Illinois
                    .)
            But the breadth of coverage that is the book's strength is not in evidence throughout. The
                    chapter "In the Cultural Vanguard," which purports to discuss midwestern urban
                    culture during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, focuses almost exclusively on 
                        Chicago
                    . Granting the Windy City's importance, readers of this journal are still
                    likely to be surprised to find no mention of Bobbs-Merrill, Booth Tarkington, or The
                        Magnificent Ambersons included in such a discussion.
            
            
               U.S. STEEL
                        IN GARY, INDIANA C. 1950
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society.
            
            That caveat aside, Teaford has written a valuable study that fills a glaring gap in the
                    historiography of American cities. Urban historians will want to be familiar with this book;
                    research libraries everywhere and college and public libraries in the Midwest will want to add it to
                    their collections.
            ROBERT G. BARROWS teaches history, occasionally American
                    urban history, at Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he is also managing editor of the forthcoming Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               .
         
         
            
               Entitled to Power: Farm Women and Technology, 1913–1963. By Katherine
                    Jellison. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xxii, 217. Tables, illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $39.95; paperbound, $13.95.)
            Katherine Jellison's Entitled to Power: Farm Women and Technology,
                        1913–1963 is an important contribution to the historiography of rural women.
                    Although several historians have recently published studies on eighteenth- and nineteenth-century
                    rural women and sociologists and anthropologists have undertaken valuable work on rural women in
                    this century, Jellison has published the first historical monograph that focuses on
                    twentieth-century farm women in the Midwest. She maintains that by failing to study these women,
                    historians have ignored "an event that had a significant  impact on American social, political, cultural, and economic history: farm families'
                    adoption of twentieth-century farm, household, and communication technology" (p. xx).
            Jellison outlines these new developments and assesses their impact on farm families. Much of her
                    attention, however, focuses on the promotion of technological change by Country Life and
                    agricultural reformers, federal agricultural agencies and programs, farm organizations and
                    periodicals, and manufacturers and advertisers. Jellison highlights the dissonance between the
                    domestic ideology that informed the assumptions and goals of these forces and the actual lives and
                    desires of farm women. She argues that although most farm women wanted field and household
                    equipment, they rejected the idea asserted in the prescriptive literature that "adoption of
                    modern equipment would release women from their productive role on the farm and instead allow them
                    to conform more closely to the role of full-time ‘homemaker.’ Most farm women
                    did not see this as a worthwhile goal" (p. xxi). She further demonstrates that government
                    surveys of rural women, already distorted because they focused on native-born middle-class women,
                    were misinterpreted by government officials and agricultural reformers who continually failed to
                    recognize women's roles in farm production. Rightly critical of the Extension
                    Service's "artificial division of farm and home" (p. 63) and certainly
                    accurate in emphasizing that the home demonstration agents focused on the promotion of household
                    equipment and improved homemaking techniques, Jellison fails to acknowledge the extent to which the
                    "Home Ec" clubs, established to provide forums for these lessons, were
                    extraordinarily valuable in relieving rural isolation, promoting friendship and sisterhood, and
                    increasing members' self-esteem.
            Although specialized, mechanized, and capital-intensive agriculture triumphed and the rural
                    patriarchal structure persisted, Jellison maintains that women continued their roles in agricultural
                    production and their resistance to roles as full-time homemakers. These roles were reshaped by
                    technology, and Jellison is sensitive to the disparate impact of technology and the ways in which
                    the variables of geography, type and size of farming operation, socioeconomic status, family
                    relationships, and expectations influenced the choices families made. She notes, for example, that
                    "the adoption of mechanized farming prompted some farm families to involve wives and
                    daughters in field work to a greater extent" but in others men took over more of this work,
                    "perhaps eliminating the work of women and girls altogether but also reducing the need for
                    hired men" (p. 109).
            Jellison's study is well grounded in all the relevant secondary literature and reflects
                    effective use of a variety of government documents, advertisements in print media and on radio, and
                    women's letters to government officials and their comments in government  surveys. Her reliance on the journal Wallaces'
                        Farmer and its columnist Elizabeth Wherry seems excessive, however, and suggests the need
                    to consider a wider range of farm periodicals. Jellison has also used very few individual manuscript
                    collections of women's letters and diaries and has not relied much on oral histories of
                    rural women's life experiences. Consulting these sources would have enhanced what is
                    already a fine monograph and a most impressive addition to twentieth-century women's
                    history and the history of rural life.
            BARBARA J. STEINSON is professor and chair of the history
                    department, DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. Her current research is on rural women in Indiana, and her essay,
                    "Rural Life in Indiana, 1800–1950," appears elsewhere in this
                issue.
         
         
            
               Gatling: A Photographic Remembrance. By E. Frank Stephenson, Jr.
                            (
                  Murfreesboro, N.C.
               : Meherrin River Press, 1993. Pp. 130.
                    Illustrations. Paperbound, $25.00. Order from Meherrin River Press,
                    301 East Broad Street, Murfreesboro, NC 27855.)
            "Photographic Remembrance" is an accurate description of E. Frank
                    Stephenson's goal in the writing and layout of Gatling. In a brief
                    narrative the author remembers his youth spent on and around the Gatling Plantation. He gives a
                    historical sketch of the Gatling family, including its most famous member, Dr. Richard Jordan
                    Gatling. One might have wished for a bit more detail about the circumstances surrounding the
                    invention of the Gatling gun in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The most striking features of this small book are its photographs and drawings. Taken as a whole,
                    they tell a story all their own of another time and of an extraordinary family of inventors and
                    visionaries. Stephenson has made every effort to document the sources and contents of the
                    illustrations that he selected. Photographs related to Gatling's wedding (which took place
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) and death are supplemented by moving eyewitness accounts.
            Readers who are unfamiliar with Gatling's life will be surprised to see patent drawings for
                    a variety of inventions besides the gun that bears his name. Among his more than fifty patents were
                    a bicycle, tractor, motorized plow, and flush toilet. Stephenson is to be commended for reminding
                    readers of this inventive genius who "conceived the idea of mitigating the horrors of war
                    by a more deadly weapon than any one then in use" (p. 83). Perhaps this gentle reminder
                    will spawn a much-deserved full biography of Richard Jordan Gatling.
            TONY L. TRIMBLE teaches history and government at the
                    Indiana Youth Center, 
                        Plainfield
                    . He is currently at work on a biography of Indiana Governor Warren T. McCray.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
