
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 19, Issue 1, pages 1-107. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:19+issue:1+year:1923&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Personal Politics In Indiana 1816 to 1840
            By ADAM A. LEONARD
            
            Indiana became a state at the very time the nation was divorcing itself from the European political
                    and economic systems and entering upon a career purely American in policy. The downfall of Napoleon
                    and the close of the War of 1812 had freed us from European chicanery. The energy and intellect of
                    the country were thence to be spent in developing the resources of the interior. The successful
                    termination of the war and the following "Era of Good Feeling" made the Republican
                    the popular party, while on the other hand the Federalist opposition to the war and especially the 
                        Hartford
                     Convention made that party and its leaders particularly unpopular. As a result party
                    lines disappeared and for more than a decade personal politics controlled the country both
                    nationally and locally. In this period all claimed to be Republicans; none would accept the name
                    Federalist. The elections were waged about the personality of men or upon local or passing
                        issues.1
            
            In 1816, at the very beginning of this period of personal politics, Indiana became a state. Of its
                    small population, numbering only 147,600 in 1820, a very few were natives of the state.2 The emigrants, largely of Scotch-Irish or 
                        German
                     descent, had come up from the Carolinas or Virginia by way 
                  
                     1 For illustration read Ch. xxii, Hall's New
                                Purchase. For an opposite view read Smith's Indiana
                                Miscellany, ch. xvi.
                  
                     2
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 21, 1821.
               
                     of the Wilderness road through Tennessee and 
                        Kentucky
                    , had drifted down the Ohio river, or had come overland through
                    Pennsylvania and 
                        Ohio
                    . This small community was practically a self-supporting farming class, depending upon
                    the outside world for those things only which household industry could not produce. Commerce with
                    the outside world was therefore limited. In 1810 Indiana had one newspaper and only fifteen in
                        1828.3
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     had its first daily mail, established between that city and 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               ,
                    in 1836. Postage rates, usually paid by the one receiving the letter,4 were very
                    high, resulting in the post offices being filled with unclaimed letters. There were two hundred such
                    letters at one time in 1816 in the 
                        Vincennes
                     post office, while the Western Sun and General Advertiser, published
                    in that town, contained in its headlines for several years the notice that all letters addressed to
                    the editor must be postpaid or they would not be taken out of the office.5 The
                    conditions of travel as late as 1826 were described by a politician canvassing for votes in that
                    year, as, "No roads, nothing but Indian paths, sleep in Indian huts, swim ponies over
                    streams, use Indian guides, build canoes, sleep in woods with wolves howling, make one speech and
                    return home."6
            
            Until 1824 the people of the state voted directly for only one federal official, a congressman. In
                    1816 the Indiana presidential electors were chosen by the state legislature sitting at Corydon.
                    Again in 1820 the electors were chosen in the same manner, the people knowing nothing about it.7
            
            
               
                  3
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, July 12, 1828.
               
                  4 Postage rates, letter postage: 
                     
                        Any distance to 40 miles——
                        8c
                        for each sheet
                     
                     
                        40 to 90 miles——
                        10c
                        for each sheet
                     
                     
                        90 to 150 miles——
                        12 1/2c
                        for each sheet
                     
                     
                        150 to 300 miles——
                        17c
                        for each sheet
                     
                     
                        300 to 500 miles——
                        20c
                        for each sheet
                     
                     
                        500 and over——
                        35c
                        for each sheet
                     
                  
                        Newspaper postage:
                  
                     1 cent per mile to 100 miles.
                     1 1/2 cents per paper for any distance over 100 miles.
                     1 cent anywhere within the state where printed.
                  
                        
                     Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 16, 1816.
               
               
                  5
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 16, 1816.
               
                  6 Smith, O. H., Early Trials and Sketches, 81.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 85. O. H. Smith, one of the state's most wide-awake
                        politicians said: "The first notice I had that there had been a presidential election
                        was from an extract in our 
                            Connersville
                         newspaper taken from the Corydon paper, giving the names of the electors and giving
                        the vote of the state for James Monroe and
            
            
            In 1824 the state legislature provided for the election of electors by popular vote.8 Along with this lack of direct participation in national affairs there was a very
                    deep-rooted patriotism of the extreme democratic type. This was most manifest in an almost insane
                    hatred of Federalists and everything connected therewith. The same things that had caused Jefferson
                    to call some of the Federalist leaders Anglo-men9 and had caused Monroe to brand
                    their actions as treason10 was sufficient to cause those western pioneers to
                    despise the name in any manner that it might be applied. In the first decade of the state's
                    history a Mr. John Allen was fined a thousand dollars in the 
                        Franklin
                     circuit court for calling Joshua Harlan a Federalist.11 In the
                    course of the trial the leading witness for the plaintiff swore that the common acceptance of the
                    term Federalist was, a Tory, an enemy of his country, and that he had never heard any other meaning;
                    that he would rather be called anything under the sun than a Federalist; and that he would feel just
                    as safe in the woods with an Indian and his tomahawk as with a Federalist. The lawyers in their
                    argument covered the field of American history, touching the administration of 
                        Washington
                    , the election of Jefferson, the contest between Jefferson and Burr, the case of Citizen
                    Genet, the Cunningham Correspondence,l2 Alien, Sedition and Gag laws,
                    impeachment of Judge Chase, the trial of Burr for treason and other kindred points. This hatred of
                    Federalists endured for more than a quarter of a century being used by the Democrats as a campaign
                    cry against the Whigs as late as 1840.13 These widely scattered, patriotic,
                    liberty loving frontiersmen furnished the most fruitful field for the development of a new American
                    spirit, typified by the Jacksonian democracy.
            The most conspicuous figure in the state in 1816 was Jonathan Jennings, a wirepuller who manipulated
                    the popular 
                  Daniel D. Tompkins. And yet as good and quiet an administration followed as any that is
                            likely to be produced by our exciting elections of today."
                  
                     8
                            Revised Statutes, 1824, p. 174.
                  
                     9
                            Writings of Jefferson, Ford, X, 83.
                  
                     10
                            Nile's Register, May 15, 1824.
                  
                     11 Smith, O. H., Early Trials and Sketches, 120.
                  
                     12 Letters written by John Adams to a friend, touching the nature of
                            our government and attacking Jefferson and the Republicans. See Ford Writings
                                of Jefferson, X, 272.
                  
                     13 Smith, O. H., Early Trials and Sketches,
                        252.
               
                     elections. He was a poor speaker, but he attended well to
                    business in Congress.14 His rise dates from the first campaign for territorial
                    delegate to congress, after the separation of Indiana and Illinois territories.
            With the adoption of a state constitution the issues which had divided parties disappeared. Even the
                        Western Sun, a few months before the constitution was adopted, ceased its
                    attacks upon Jennings long enough to say: 
                        It were well if instead of the bitterness and contumely of party contentions, men would learn
                            to cultivate the amiable and endearing ties of good friendship—to permit party
                            passions to pollute the sacred fountain of friendship and extend its baleful breath into the
                            sweetest comforts of society is robbing life of half its fleeting joys. Is the path of life
                            so carpeted with bliss that one need press the course of discontent into its transitory
                            period? To soften the asperity which a difference in political opinion sometimes produces in
                            the heart should be the study of every man whatever his sentiments and whatsoever his
                            situation.
                    
            
            In the same issue the Western Sun published a letter by a citizen of Gibson county on the subject of
                    the constitutional convention in which he says: 
                        Lay aside, fellow citizens, all party bickerings, all local considerations, all personal
                            prejudices or prepossessions and vote independently for the men that are most capable of
                            discharging that important duty. Select men of talent an4 integrity, if such can be found,
                            and all is well. You are free and ought to act as free men. You have nothing to guard
                            yourselves against more than an improper indulgence of your prejudices and
                        prepossessions.
                    
            
            More than a year later the Western Sun was able to say in an editorial: 
                        Political parties are forgetting their animosities and extinguishing those fierce contentions
                            that have so long triumphed over patriotism and reason. We hail the period of their decline
                            as the harbinger of better days.15
                  
                    
            
            The first state election, held on the first Monday in August, 1816, reflects this spirit of
                    conciliation. On November 4 the newly-elected legislature met in Corydon. Three days later the two
                    houses met in joint session, canvassed the returns and 
                  
                     14 Smith, O. H., Early Trials and Sketches, 86.
                  
                     15 June 14, 1817.
               
                     declared Jonathan Jennings elected governor; Christopher
                    Harrison, a native of Maryland and a citizen of the Daniel Boone type, lieutenant governor, and
                    William Hendricks as the temporary representative in congress. The next day the two houses met again
                    in joint session and elected James Noble, a native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , of Virginia ancestry, and a partisan of Jennings, as one 
                        United States
                     senator, and Waller Taylor, the bitter enemy of Jennings, as the other.16 O. H. Smith said of politics at the time: 
                        Affairs of the state were in the hands of three parties or rather one party with three
                            divisions—the Noble, Jennings, and Hendricks divisions which were all fully
                            represented in the convention that formed the constitution of 1816. It was evident to the
                            leaders that personal politics must arise between them unless the proper arrangements were
                            made to avoid them. It was agreed between them to aid each other in making Noble 
                                United States
                             senator, Jennings governor, and Hendricks congressman. There were three judges
                            to be appointed to the supreme court. Each subdivision was entitled to one. General Noble
                            selected Jesse L. Holman, a good lawyer and one of the most just and conscientious men I
                            ever knew. Governor Jennings selected John Johnson, a fine lawyer and an excellent man.
                            Governor Hendricks named James Scott of Clark county, a Pennsylvanian, one of the purest men
                            of the State and a fine lawyer.17
                  
                    
            
            A mere agreement among leaders was not enough, however, to secure an election. Jennings was opposed
                    in his race for governor by Thomas Posey the territorial governor who had the support of the old
                    Harrison adherents. Hendricks was opposed by A. D. Thom, collector of revenue at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , who pledged himself to support the administration if elected,18
                    and by George Rogers Clark Sullivan who pledged himself to discharge the duties of office to the
                    satisfaction of the people.19 A few days before the election (August 3) Sullivan
                    withdrew in favor of Thorn. The contests were based largely upon the personal popularity of the
                    candidates. The campaign was marked by open letters abusive of the opposing candidates, and by open
                    letters by the candidates themselves. Jennings was closely questioned about his attitude toward
                        
                  
                     16 Woolen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                                Indiana, 160.
                  
                     17 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                            84.
                  
                     18
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, July 27, 1816.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., July 13, 1816.
               
                     matters of local importance, while he was territorial
                        delegate.20 The election resulted in a complete victory for the
                        triumvirate.21 This gave them good reasons to attempt to remove the personal
                    opposition to them by appointing the leaders of the opposition, Johnson and Taylor, to office.
            The early settlers of Indiana were intensely Democratic in their political doctrines. As a result
                    office tenure under the constitution, was for short periods, thereby necessitating frequent
                    elections. The members of the state house of representatives were elected annually and held annual
                        sessions.22 The state senators were elected for terms of three yars,
                    one-third their number retiring each year. The governor and lieutenant governor served for terms of
                    three years. The sheriff and coroner were elected for terms of two years. Judges of the circuit
                    court served for seven years, and justices of the peace for five years, while township elections
                    were triennial. With congressional elections occurring every two years and national elections every
                    four years the citizen had the questions of politics constantly before him. This was all the more
                    true since the township elections occurred in the spring (first Monday in April), while the other
                    regular state elections were held on the first Monday in August.
            The methods were the most characteristic features of the politics of the day. In the absence of
                    organized parties and party machinery, candidates announced themselves for office through the
                    columns of the newspapers or by printed handbills which were distributed from house to house. In the
                    earlier years these announcements were generally very profuse in their praise of the candidate
                    though the exceptions were common.
            As an example we find General 
                        Washington
                     Johnson, early in July announcing as a candidate in a very ordinary notice:23
                    
                        General W. Johnson will serve the citizens of 
                                Knox county
                            , if a majority of them by their vote request him, in the next session of the
                            legislature.
                    
            
            
               
                  20
                        Ibid., July 17, 1816.
               
                  21 The vote, Jennings 5211, Posey 3936.
               
                  22 State Constitution, Art. 3, sec 3.
               
                  23
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, July 5, 1817.
            
            
            A month later, on the eve of the election he published a more profuse declaration:24
                    
                        CITIZENS OF KNOX
                        An American, a child of your State, and a friend of your rights, now offers his services to
                            represent you in the legislature. His qualifications are so well known they need no comment.
                            His principles both religious and political have been tested and passed the Rubison. Such a
                            one now solicits your suffrages and if he becomes the object of your choice, promises that
                            he will serve you faithfully and render an account of his conduct.
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                            , Aug. 4th, 1817.
                        GENERAL W. JOHNSTON.
                    
            
            From the time announcements were made until election day handbills were circulated and newspapers
                    were full of long articles, which were almost all signed with fictitious names, either praising the
                    candidates or making direct personal attacks upon them. Quite often these letters were filled with
                    questions of the most personal nature. The following extract from a letter to Isaac Blackford of 
                        Knox county
                     is a fair example of such questions:25
                    
                        We should be glad if Mr. Isaac Blackford will condescend to inform the people of Knox whether
                            he did or did not state a positive falsehood in his reply to Independent Freeman, when he
                            says:—
                    
            
            The good campaigner not only had to meet successfully these newspaper attacks, but had to meet all
                    kinds of rumors and false reports that were purposely circulated by his opponents. O. H. Smith has
                    given us the best picture of what campaigning really was. If we may take the case of Merritt S.
                    Craig of 
                  Versailles, Ripley
                            county
               , as an example.26 Mr. Craig was a native
                    Kentuckian from 
                        Boone county
                    . He entered politics young, was a member of the house of representatives for several
                    terms, a great electioneer. Once, just before election, chances looked desperate. Others regarded
                    his defeat as certain. All kinds of reports were circulated against him through the county. The last
                    week had come and something must be done or he was defeated. Craig saw his time. Stepping into a
                    grocery [saloon] he turned over the counter, broke 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid, Aug. 5, 1817.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., Aug. 9, 1817.
                  
                     26 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                            131.
               
                     all the bottles, took the faucet out of the whiskey barrel, threw
                    the grocer out of the door, but paid him for his property. The news spread like wildfire over the
                    county. All other stories were merged into the grocery matter. The act was decidedly popular, as
                    drinking houses were odious. Mr. Craig was elected by a larger majority than ever before, although
                    he was not a temperance man.
            The ignorance of the people about the common national issues made their mention by candidates
                    extremely hazardous. O. H. Smith relates two very amusing incidents of the congressional campaign of
                    1826. Judge John Test was his competitor: 
                        The judge was speaking in favor of the tariff. The people knew but little about it, but what
                            they had heard was decidedly against it. Few knew the meaning of the word and fewer what it
                            was like. One old fellow said that he had never seen one but he believed it was hard on
                                sheep.27
                  
                    
            
            At another time in the same campaign the two candidates met at Allenville in 
                        Switzerland county
                    . In the course of his speech Judge Test mentioned for the first time the new subject of
                    railroads. He told the crowd that cars were running at the rate of thirty miles an hour in 
                        England
                     and would run even faster in America. This was too much for the crowd. It set up a loud
                    laugh at the expense of the Judge and one old fellow yelled at him: "You are crazy, or do
                    you think we are all fools? A man could not live a moment at that speed." The judge ruined
                    his chances in that county by telling such an improbable story.
            In the campaign of 1817 the most conspicuous figure was William Hendricks. In the election of 1816 he
                    had succeeded Jennings as territorial delegate, but with the formal recognition of statehood it
                    became necessary to elect a state representative to congress. Hendricks of course, was the choice of
                    the leaders who were in control. The opposition began its fight on him at the earliest possible
                    moment. The Indiana Herald, attempted to secure the appointment as public printers
                    for Indiana and failed.28 It immediately began a personal 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 80.
                  
                     28 Printed in Corydon, 1815 to 1818. Its policy was opposition to the
                            Jennings regime.
               
                     attack upon Hendricks for using his influence in favor of the
                    state militia.29 It announced on March 5, a caucus to be held in Corydon on
                    March 15 to nominate a candidate in opposition to Hendricks. Only a few attended the caucus and no
                    selection was made. Another caucus was called for April 28. Its purpose was not well understood and
                    the caucus plan was bitterly attacked in the Western Sun on March 29, in a letter
                    signed "Vesuvius.". On May 10 the Herald tried to justify this
                    method of selection, but finding its course unpopular abandoned it. On May 24, one of its editors,
                    Ruben A. Nelson, announced himself as a candidate for congressman. In his letter announcing himself
                    Mr. Nelson says: 
                        I shall neither attempt to insult your judgment by eulogizing on my talents nor disgust your
                            feelings by a parade of my integrity30
                  
                    
            
            Then he passed on to the right of a constituency to instruct its representatives, where he made a
                    deliberate thrust at those in control. He said: 
                        What constitutes this instruction? Is it the noisy declaration of a few factious demogogues?
                            Is it the expressed will of a few partisans in the corner of a district? Is it the report of
                            those busy characters who pretend to know every man's mind and every man's
                            business? Most certainly it would be not only in derogation of his duty but ridiculous for a
                            representative to listen to such instructions. The very gist, substance, and force of the
                            instruction is contained in the suffrages which constitute the agency. Private interest
                            feelings and obligation must therefore always yield to the paramount rights of the
                        public.
                    
            
            His candidacy apparently met but a feeble response, for about a month and a half later, he withdrew
                    and Thomas Posey announced himself as candidate, saying in his letter to the public that he yielded
                    to the wishes of his friends in consenting to serve if elected.31 Hendricks said
                    in a public letter after the election: 
                        Governor Posey was brought forward by my avowed and inveterate enemies, who have practiced
                            everything but fair dealings to destroy me. He suffered himself to be taken up, if report be
                            true, contrary to his wishes and certainly contrary to his interests, for he had and still
                            has 
                        
                           29 See Hendricks' open letter in the Indiana Republican, Sept. 16, 1817.
                        
                           30
                                    Western Sun and General Advertiser, June 7, 1817
                        
                           31
                                    Indiana Republican, July 19, 1817.
                     
                             a situation much more lucrative and better suited to his
                            age and infirmities.32
                  
                    
            
            According to Hendricks' own letter, the most violent personal abuse was heaped upon him for
                    his conduct as a representative because first, he had procured the appointment of printer of 
                        United States
                     laws for the Gazette in preference to the Herald;
                    second, he had attempted to have the printing of laws taken away from Elihu Stout, of the Western Sun and General Advertiser; third he had secured the appointment of
                    Armstrong Brandon, as postmaster at Corydon, when the resigning postmaster Mr. Heth had recommended
                    Mr. M'Bean as his successor. It was also charged in this case that neither Mr. Hendricks
                    nor Senator James Noble had consulted Senator Waller Taylor before making the appointment. The
                    Western Sun and General Advertiser complained that he had caused delay in the payment of the state
                    militia for national service. In accounting for the opposition Mr. Hendricks said: 
                        It is not rational, sentimental objection to my political acts, which has occasioned the
                            opposition which I have recently experienced. It is the man and not measures which have
                            actuated my enemies.
                    
            
            Those personal attacks continued throughout the campaign. 
                        Knox county
                     gave Posey 346 votes and Hendricks only 35, and Posey county gave Posey 453 to
                    Hendricks 121 votes. On the other hand 
                        Franklin county
                     gave Hendricks 1019 votes to Posey 48 and 
                        Wayne county
                     to the north of it gave Hendricks 961 votes to 135 for Posey.33
                    Throughout the center of the state the vote was fairly equally divided with the majorities generally
                    in favor of Hendricks. Hendricks received a total of 5075 votes to 3272 for Posey. In the
                    congressional election of 1818, Hendricks was opposed by Ruben A. Nelson. The victory was
                    overwhelming for Hendricks. Nelson carried only two counties, Warrick by a vote of 92 to 6 and Knox
                    by 343 to 179, while in many counties he did not receive more than one vote.84 In 1820 Nelson was
                    again the opponent of Hendricks. He was even more decisively defeated this time 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., Sept. 16, 1817.
                  
                     33 Files in secretary of state's office, box, 153-154.
                  
                     34 Files in secretary of state's office, box 155-156.
               
                     than in 1818, losing 
                        Warrick county
                     and carrying Knox alone, where he received 437 votes to 302 for Hendricks.35
            
            With Hendricks firmly intrenched in congress, political contention again centered about Jennings. His
                    every act was subject to adverse criticism. In 1818 he was appointed by the president, as a
                    commissioner along with Lewis Cass of Michigan and Benjamin Parke to treat with the Indians. They
                    succeeded in purchasing from the Indians all the central part of the state, and with the exception
                    of the Miami, the Thorn-town and a few other reservations, all the Indian land south of the
                        Wabash river. The enemies of Jennings declared that he had violated the
                    clause of the state constitution which forbade any person holding an office of trust under the 
                        United States
                     to be governor or lieutenant governor.36 Lieutenant-governor
                    Christopher Harrison said of the affair: 
                        I decided in my own mind that the Honorable Jonathan Jennings in consequence of his holding
                            and executing said office had virtually abdicated his office of governor of this state.37
                  
                    
            
            Harrison immediately took charge of the state seal which had been left with the secretary of state.
                    On the 24th of October he left Corydon and was away until the 30th. In the meantime Governor
                    Jennings had returned and had carried the state seal away from the secretary of state's
                    office, where it had been left by Harrison on a promise that no one but Harrison should have it.
                    Jennings refused to surrender the seal on the demand of Harrison. The contest was carried to the
                    legislature, which recognized Jennings' motives in serving as a commissioner, and failed to
                    oust him. Harrison immediately resigned. The constitutional right of an officer was often called
                    into question during this early period. In 1822 the Western Sun and General
                    Advertiser questioned the constitutional right of both the governor and lieutenant-governor to
                    hold office while they were candidates for other offices.38 A little later when
                    Governor Jennings issued the first Thanksgiving proclamation his constitutional right to do so was
                        
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., box 159-160.
                  
                     36 Article 4. sec. 6.
                  
                     37 Open letter in Western Sun and General
                            Advertiser, Nov. 14, 1818.
                  
                     38 May 18, 1822.
               
                     questioned by the Western Sun and General
                        Advertiser.39 In Jennings' case, however, he had clearly
                    violated the letter of the constitution.
            As the year 1819 drew near it was evident that Jennings would be a candidate to succeed himself as
                    governor. As early as September, 1818, the fight on him began. A letter signed William L. Colman,
                        said:40
                    
                        The contemptible cabal of office-seeking adventurers who are busily engaged in writing
                            slander and falsehood for Jennings' Centinel (
                                Vincennes
                            ) yet go on, their reward, however, awaits them.
                    
            
            Early in the year 1819 Jennings and Jesse L. Holman were the announced candidates for governor, while
                    Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , John DePauw, Dennis Pennington, and Marston G. Clark were candidates for
                    lieutenant-governor. The two latter soon withdrew from the race. Personality was the sole issue. The
                    fight began early. An open letter by "A. B." said: 
                        People of Indiana, in August you have to determine whether you will by re-electing Jonathan
                            Jennings again cast ridicule upon your institutions and keep them subservient to a system
                            which if not entirely corrupt leads to that result, or whether you will by the honorable
                            choice of Jesse Holman place a gentleman in the gubernatorial chair who has disposition and
                            talents to render your state respectable and your affairs prosperous.
                    
            
            The worst charge against Jennings was his violation of his oath of office in acting as commissioner
                    to treat with the Indians.41 The full details of the controversy were kept
                    before the people. Holman's candidacy did not seem to be popular, and about a month before
                    the election Christopher Harrison, who was regarded as a political martyr by Jennings'
                    enemies, became a candidate.42 He had no chance of success and Jennings defeated
                    him by the overwhelming majority of 9168 to 2007 votes while Boone defeated DePauw by the vote of
                    7150 to 3422.43 The hatred for Jennings in 
                        Vincennes
                     was so intense that the Western Sun continued its abuse after the
                        election.44 The cause of the old Virginia group of politicians was 
                  
                     39
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser.
                  
                     40
                            Western Sum and General Advertiser, Sept 26, 1818, May 1, 1819.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., May 29, 1819.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., July 3, 1819.
                  
                     43
                            House Journal, 1819. p. 26.
                  
                     44
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Aug. 26, 1819.
               
                     lost forever. Jennings kept the slavery issue constantly before
                    the people, to the exclusion of every other issue. The tide of immigration was flowing fast, and
                    almost every new settler was opposed to slavery, and Jennings had been the champion of antislavery
                    and every thrust at him, in attempts to win the emigrant vote, reacted upon his adversary. The more
                    he was opposed the more popular he became. For a short time there was an apparent lessening of the
                    political tension preparatory for the new alignment that was soon to follow.
            On the basis of the census of 1820 Indiana was divided into three congressional districts. The first
                    contained the twenty-one counties of Davies, Dubois, Gibson, 
                  Greene, Knox
               , Lawrence, Martin, 
                        Monroe
                    , Morgan, 
                        Orange
                    , Posey, Parke, Perry, 
                  Pike, Putnam
               , Sullivan, Vanderburg, Vigo,
                            
                  Spencer, Wabash
                and 
                        Warrick
                    . The second contained the eleven counties of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , Crawford, Clark, Floyd, Harrison, 
                        Jackson
                    , Jefferson, Jennings, 
                        Marion
                    , Scott, 
                  Shelby, Washington
                and part of 
                        Delaware
                    . While the third contained the eight counties of 
                  Dearborn, Fayette, Franklin, Randolph, Ripley, Switzerland
               , Union, 
                        Wayne
                    , and part of 
                        Delaware
                    .45 As the campaign of 1822 drew near Hendricks became the candidate
                    for governor, and so completely had he won the respect of the people that he was unopposed by any
                    real candidate. There were four candidates for lieutenant-governor, Ratliffe 
                        Boone
                    , William Polke, Erasmus Powell and David H. Maxwell. The campaign for state offices was
                    entirely free from personal abuse. Hendricks received 18,340 votes, excepting a few strays it was
                    the total vote of the state. Boone received 7,809 out of a total 17,822 votes cast for
                    lieutenant-governor and a plurality of almost 3,800 over his nearest competitor, Polke.
            The candidates for congress were Judge Charles Dewey and William Prince from the first district;
                    Jonathan Jennings and James Scott from the second; John Test, Ezra Ferris and S. C. Vance from the
                    third. The only real contest for congress was between Dewey and Prince in the first district. The
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser was extremely bitter against Dewey, while
                    he attempted to refute the personal at- 
                  
                     45
                            House Journal, 1822, p. 22. This was a plain gerrymander.
               
                     tacks against him.46 In the second district
                    Jennings, being free from the 
                        Knox county
                     and Virginia influence had little trouble in defeating Scott, while Judge Test was
                    easily victor over Ferris and Vance.47
            
            The work of the General Assembly was in just as chaotic condition as the politics of the state. For
                    the first five years the General Assembly consisted of a senate of ten and a house of twenty-nine.
                    There was very little general legislation, the, time being generally taken up with local matters,
                    most often a divorce bill or an impeachment of a justice of the peace. In one week the General
                    Assembly granted as many as five divorces.48 These were often granted without
                    regard to the merits of the case and most often as a result of log-rolling. Some who were opposed to
                    such bills objected but this objection had little force. Governor Jennings in his message to the
                    General Assembly in 1819 outlined a program of future legislation which was later to become the
                    basis of political contention in the state, but the population was yet too scattered to give a
                    united demand for any public policy. The points covered by the message were: 
                  Revenue and taxation.
                  Specie payment and banking.
                  Internal improvements, canals, salt and salt wells.
                  Public education.
                  Roads and highways.
                  Militia.
                  The location of the state capital.49
                  
               
            
            The people were kept informed of the working of the General Assembly by circular letters published by
                    their representatives (both state and national) telling what had been done at the sessions just
                    closed and giving in great detail their own position on the questions of local importance.50
            
            
               
                  46 "See Issue of July 13, 1822.
               
                  47 Files in secretary of state's office, box 161-162.
               
                  48
                        Western 8un and General Advertiser, Jan. 19, 1822.
               
                  49
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, Dec. 25, 1819.
               
                  50
                        Ibid, June 19. 1822, contains the letter of General Johnston of 
                            Knox county
                        .
            
            
            FORMATION OF THE JACKSON PARTY
            
            As 
                        Monroe
                    's second term drew to a close, the people of Indiana began to demand an active
                    part in the choice of presidential electors, who up to this time had been selected by the state
                    legislature. There were two possible methods of choosing the electors: First, by the vote of the
                    people—by districting the state; or second, by choosing them on a general ticket. Both
                    methods were in common usage.1 In the election of the state Assembly in 1823 the
                    question of districting was one of the most important questions. Early in the year the Indiana Farmer said:2
                    
                        The August elections are fast approaching and we think it time that the candidates for a seat
                            in our legislature should come fairly before the people with their views and intentions in
                            regard to one or two important subjects. These questions should be proposed to every
                            candidate: "Are you in favor of districting the State for the purpose of electing
                            electors for the President and Vice-president?" If the state should not be
                            districted as above whom are you in favor of for President and Vice-President?3
                  
                    
            
            The editor declared himself in favor of districting the state and asserted that he would vote for no
                    one who was not. In 
                        Knox county
                     there were three candidates for the legislature: General W. Johnston, James B. McCall
                    and John Law. A fortnight before the election B. V. Beckes addressed an open letter to the
                    candidates in which he put the following questions:
            
               Whom will you support for the next President of the 
                            United States
                        ?
               What course will you pursue with respect to the enormous tax which the people have to pay,
                        especially the poll tax? 
                     
                        1 According to Niles' Register, Oct. 4,
                                1823, seven states—Maines, 
                           Massachusetts, Maryland,
                                        Kentucky, Tennessee, Illinois
                         and Missouri chose electors in districts: ten states—
                                    New Hampshire
                                , mode Island, 
                           Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama
                        , and Ohio on a general ticket and seven
                                        states—
                           Vermont,
                                        New York, Delaware, South Carolina,
                                        Georgia, Louisiana
                         and Indiana by state legislature.
                     
                        2
                                Indiana Farmer, published at 
                                    Salem
                                ; Ind., by Ebenezer and Eleazer Wheelock. It supported Adams in 1824.
                     
                        3 Copied in Western Sun and General Advertiser
                                June 14, 1823.
                  
               
               
               The revision of our statute laws it is expected will be ready and presented to the next
                        General Assembly. What are your views on the subject?
               What are your views as to districting the state for the election of electors of President and
                        Vice-president of the 
                            United States
                        ?
               Our school lands if properly managed are most undoubtedly a subject of utmost importance. Will
                        you please communicate your opinions to us on the subject?
               Will you state whether or not you are in favor of calling a convention, giving your views at
                        length?
               What change will you be willing to make in the county road law, as same are necessary?
               We would be pleased to hear a word of your politics.5
               
            
            The next week the candidates answered the questions of Beckes through the columns of the Sun.
               6 The candidates seemed to be of a harmonious opinion on all
                    subjects. In answer to the first, Johnston declared for Clay and 
                        Jackson
                    , McCall for 
                        Clay
                    , and Law for "a man of the West." All of them favored the repeal of
                    the poll tax, would support revision, favored the districting of the state, would never sell the
                    school lands, but rather lease them, and would have no convention (constitutional) at this time.
                    Johnston declared that the road law for 1818 was preferable while the others would be governed by
                    the will of their constituents. Johnston said his politics were and have always been Republican.
                    McCall said he was a decided Democrat, while Law was a Republican in principles and practice.
                    Law's answer to the fourth question was interesting owing to the fact that two weeks
                    previous7 he had published a letter stating that he was in favor of selecting electors by a joint
                    ballot of the legislature, also denying that he was a partisan of J. Q. Adams. He was evidently
                    drifting to fit public opinion. McCall was the successful candidate. The new assembly settled the
                    question by districting the state by providing for the choice of electors on a general ticket.
            More than two years before the elections of 1824 the question of candidates for the Presidency was
                    freely discussed in the state. William H. Crawford had, by giving the patronage of the 
                        United States
                     treasury to local banks, built up a faction 
                  
                            5
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser.
                        
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., July 26, 1823.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid. July 12, 1823.
               
                     for himself.8 The Western Sun
                        and General Advertiser said of him: 
                        Mr. Crawford had done all within his power to ease the western debtors, and the return he
                            receives from the western man is as impotent and ungrateful as maliciousness can render
                                it.9
                  
                    
            
            It again spoke of him as "the able, firm, and intelligent Secretary of the
                        Treasury."10 "
                        Franklin
                    ", in an open letter, said: 
                        The interests of the West should not be overlooked in the selection of Mr. Monroe's
                            successor, nor can our interests be overlooked when the interests of the Union are
                            consulted.
                    
            
            He thought that 
                        Clay
                    's claims could not be preferred at the next election but that he should be a
                    cabinet member, Mr. Jackson 's pretentions were remote. He must prove himself a statesman.
                    Crawford, he thought, would be the choice of the West. His sentiments on internal improvements and
                    domestic manufacture were in perfect accord with those of the West.
            Later in the year the sentiment seemed to drift toward Clay as the candidate. In a series of three
                    articles "
                        Wayne
                    " discussed the necessity for roads, for canals and the possible attitude of
                    the prospective candidates upon these subjects.11 He eliminated J. Q. Adams because he was ignorant
                    of the actual conditions, and saw a lack of interest in these subjects on the part of Calhoun and
                    Crawford. He said: 
                        From J. Q. Adams you have everything to dread, from Calhoun and Crawford you have nothing
                            upon which to build that assurance which wisdom and prudence would demand.
                    
            
            He then concluded that Clay was the only logical man. On the same date of "
                        Wayne
                    's" last article "
                        Knox
                    " in a letter said: 
                        Let us rise in the majority of our united strength and give to the candidate of our choice
                            the presidential chair. Let all other questions be buried in oblivion except the single
                            question: "Is he friendly to the interests of the West."12
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8 Logan Esarey, Indiana University Studies, No. 15, State
                            Banking in Indiana, 21 to 42.
               
                  9
                        Western Sun, Feb. 2, 1822.
               
                  10
                        Ibid., April 27, 1822. Also Nov. 20, 1822.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., Nov. 9-16 and 23, 1822.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., Nov. 23. 1822.
            
            
            He then eliminated all possible candidates except 
                        Clay
                    . "
                        Franklin
                    " in another letter saw in the contest only a struggle between Republicanism
                    and Aristocracy. And whatever the names of the candidates, in the end the friends of one would be
                    found advocating the voice of the people and those of the other the supremacy of the
                    people's privileged servants.13
            
            The speculation as to who their candidates should be soon gave way to actual nominations. Clay was
                    nominated by the Missouri legislature on Nov. 7, 182314 and the Western Sun and General Advertiser in the same issue that it announced the nomination,
                    expressed a wish that Illinois and Indiana would do likewise. The Ohio legislature nominated 
                        Clay
                    , January 3.15 The first nomination of 
                        Jackson
                     came in Westmoreland county, 
                        Virginia
                    , early in the year 1823.16 The commissioned and non-commissioned
                    officers of the 6th regiment of the militia of Indiana met at their place of encampment in the
                    latter part of April, 1823, and adopted the resolution: That we do highly appreciate the valuable
                    services of the Honorable Henry Clay and do most cordially recommend him as a suitable person to
                    fill the office of chief magistrate of the 
                        United States
                    .17
            
            The matter of caucus nominations soon became the absorbing topic in national politics. Adams as
                    secretary of state, Crawford as secretary of the treasury and Clay as Speaker of the House were on
                    the scene to influence the choice. General 
                        Jackson
                     was elected by the Tennessee legislature to the 
                        United States
                     senate for the term beginning March 4, 1823. Niles' Register
                    in an editorial complained:18
                    
                        This is one of the many cases that grow out of making Presidents at 
                                Washington
                            . The evil is increasing at every turn. If the people do not do something to put
                            the evil down we may fear that Congress may become something like the Polish Diet was. We
                            shall perhaps see the necessity at some future day of so amending the constitution as to
                            disqualify persons from securing the office of President for three or four years, at least,
                            after they have held any place of profit or honor in the government of the 
                                United States
                            .
                    
            
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid., Dec. 21, 1822.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., Dec. 7, 1822.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., Feb. 1, 1823.
               
                  16
                        Ibid., Feb. 8, 1823.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., May 31, 1823.
               
                  18
                        Niles' Register, Oct. 26, 1823.
            
            
            A meeting of citizens of 
                        Louisville
                     and Jefferson county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 
                        Louisville
                    , in May, 1823, drew up a lengthy address deprecating the choice of the President by
                    congress and declaring that "the President should be the choice of the people."19 When the meeting adjourned the friends of 
                        Jackson
                     lined up in a row outside of the door, and those opposed to 
                        Jackson
                     lined up facing them. The 
                        Jackson
                     men were in a majority and they regarded it as a 
                        Jackson
                     nomination. The 
                        Columbus
                    
                    Ohio Observer in an editorial said: 
                        The people's candidate for the Presidency is Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            , while the leading men of the country are solicitous to maintain the power they
                            have so long exercised. This aristocracy, particularly that part which is in favor of Mr.
                            Secretary Crawford are constantly advising that there shall be a congressional caucus, and
                            that their choice shall be conclusive. Oh, very well. Who will represent the people at this
                            great trial race? Nobody, for it is well known that 
                                Jackson
                             has rather too much honesty and integrity to find many warm and substantial
                            friends amongst the hunters for office. The people are to give up their candidate and their
                            claims and the leading men are to dictate to them whom they shall vote for any what they
                            shall do.20
                  
                    
            
            The dangers of such nominations were not yet so apparent as they were to become a little later, and
                    politicians as a rule were not ready to oppose the system. On January 7, 1824, Mr. Blake offered the
                    following resolutions in the Indiana House of Representatives:21
                    
                        
                     Whereas, the encouragement given to caucus nominations for the office of
                            President and Vice-president of the 
                                United States
                             excites in us the liveliest apprehensions for the safety of the Union, because
                            we believe it to be a practice, tormenting the people in the exercise of
                            their dearest franchise, at war with their feelings and the principles of their political
                            institutions, nourishing the growth of party intrigue, which carries in its train every
                            species of dangerous and degrading corruption: and a practice which if not checked in its
                            progress will ultimately undermine the sacred rights, the prosperity and happiness of the
                            American people. Therefore in obedience to our duty to the State we represent, to our fellow
                            citizens of the Union:
                        
                     Resolved, by the House of Representatives of the General Assembly of the
                            State of Indiana; that it is the right of the people reserved by them in the constitution to
                            elect the President and the Vice-president of 
                        
                           19
                                    Western Sun and General Advertiser, May 24, 1823.
                        
                           20
                                    Ibid., Aug. 23, 1825.
                        
                           21
                                    Niles' Register, Feb. 7. 1824.
                     
                             the 
                                United States
                            , and that any attempt by congressional nominations, in caucus or otherwise, to
                            exercise this invaluable privilege unless authorized by the Constitution, should be regarded
                            by the American people as a dangerous encroachment on their rights, tending to ruin the
                            Republic.
                        
                     Resolved further, that his excellency, the governor, be requested to
                            transmit to our senators and representatives in Congress this plan and matured opinion
                            expressed by the House of Representatives of the people of this State.
                    
            
            The resolution was indefinitely postponed by a vote of 36 to 8.
            From the widespread manipulation of the banking industry by Secretary Crawford there was little doubt
                    but what he could control a congressional caucus at any time, but whatever support he had in this
                    came from those who were naturally affected by his actions.22 While the people
                    had no way of preventing such a nomination, yet the tenor of the western press indicated that there
                    was no intention on the part of the west to be bound by such a caucus. In Indiana, Crawford lost
                    whatever prestige he had through the bank failures of 1821 and 1822.23 The
                    sentiment throughout the west was becoming stronger and stronger for 
                        Jackson
                    . The Columbian Observer declared: 
                        There is not to be found in the wide universe a man so pure, spotless and exceptional in his
                            political and moral character as Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            . But he has no leading men in his favor. This is his only crime.24
                  
                    
            
            "Unus" in a series of letters concluded: 
                        For myself after much cogitation and mature consideration I have concluded that 
                                Jackson
                             approaches the man I want more than any other of the Presidential candidates,
                            and consequently 
                                Jackson
                             is my man and more he is the man of most of my friends.25
                  
                    
            
            In another part of the letter he said: 
                        The contest is not between Clay and Adams or between 
                                Jackson
                             and Crawford, but between political honesty and integrity on the one side, and
                            intrigue, corruption and infamy on the other. To you it will not be the least difference
                            whether Adams or Clay or Crawford or Calhoun 
                        
                           22 See American State Papers,
                                    1829—'21. '22, '23.
                        
                           23 Logan Esarey. Indiana University Studies No. 15, State
                                    Banking in Indiana, 231-242.
                        
                           24
                                    Western Sun and General Adverttser, Nov. 1, 1823.
                        
                           25
                                    Ibid, Nov. 1 to Dec. 13, 1823.
                     
                             succeeds. The same principles and the same measures will
                            triumph. But should 
                                Jackson
                             be elected the triumph will be yours, for the victory will be yours.
                    
            
            This was the beginning of a weekly exchange of letters by "Unus" supporting 
                        Jackson
                     and "Backwoodsman" supporting 
                        Clay
                    . In one of these letters "Backwoodsman" said: 
                        It is as a military man that General 
                                Jackson
                             is principally known to the American people, and they are not in possession of
                            such facts as will warrant them in believing that he is possessed of the talent and
                            information of a Statesman.26
                  
                    
            
            Other writers also took various positions on the question. "Old 
                        Knox
                    " urged harmony between the Clay and 
                        Jackson
                     men.27 "Ironicus" gave twelve reasons why Adams
                    should not be elected President and favored the election of 
                        Clay
                    .28
                    The Western Sun and General Advertiser also published a series of articles from
                    other papers giving the western view of the matter. On April 24, it published the address of the
                            
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , mass meeting that had endorsed 
                        Jackson
                    . On May 29 it began the publication of a series of six letters by "Seventy
                    Six" copied from the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Gazette opposing Adams and advocating the election of 
                        Jackson
                    . On that date also it published an extract from the 
                        Franklin
                     Gazette favoring 
                        Jackson
                    . On April 17, 1824, it published a letter by "E. P." to Crawford, 
                        Clay
                    , Calhoun, and Adams urging them to withdraw in favor of 
                        Jackson
                     and admonishing them to: 
                        Remember that for your sakes in common with other citizens he faced the most appalling
                            dangers. To defend you he attacked the perfidious Spaniard in his fort. He fought the
                            haughty Briton in open field. He conquered the savage in the fastness of the wilderness.
                            While you were enjoying the luxurious delicacies of your tables his only food was the acorns
                            of the forests. While you reposed on cushions of down 
                                Jackson
                             had a stone or a log for his pillow, the dew for his covering and the cold
                            earth for his bed.
                    
            
            On June 19 it published the 
                        Jackson
                    -Monroe correspondence to show that 
                        Jackson
                     had not urged Monroe to place two 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., Jan. 10, 1824.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., Jan. 10, 1824. "Old 
                                Knox
                            " was John Ewing.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., Apr. 24, 1824.
               
                     Federalists in his cabinet as had been charged. Throughout July
                    and August it ran a series of articles by "
                        Wyoming
                     entitled "Rules and Articles of War" and in August the title changed
                    to "The next President and General Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    ." On August 7, "
                        Hamilton
                    " in an article copied from the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Advertiser was very profuse in praise of 
                        Jackson
                    . All letters in the Western Sun from that time dealt with 
                        Jackson
                    's military record. On October 30, it published an article from the Indiana Intelligencer (
                        Charlestown
                    ) by an Adams man showing that Adams men would not suffer by the election of 
                        Clay
                    . In the same issue an editorial said: 
                        The Adams men seeing their case hopeless are planning to flock to Clay and defeat 
                                Jackson
                            .
                    
            
            The change of this paper from decidedly pro-Crawford in 1822 to neutral between Clay and 
                        Jackson
                     in 1823 to radical for 
                        Jackson
                     in 1824, may be taken as a fairly accurate gauge of the political sentiment of the
                    state during that period. The idea that they had as their champion a man whose life experience had
                    been the same as theirs outweighed all other considerations with them. The educating process had
                    done its work effectively and there was little doubt but that 
                        Jackson
                     would secure a plurality of votes in the November elections.
            The question of an electoral ticket was the all-important question at that time. The law providing
                    for the selection of electors on a general ticket had only recently been passed (January 14,
                        1824).29 Neither state laws nor party machinery provided any means for
                    selecting a ticket. They were generally chosen over the country by newspapers advocating the use of
                    certain names. And by concensus of newspaper opinions the ticket was agreed upon, or it was chosen
                    by the adherents of a candidate in the state legislature. But even then there was no means of
                    binding the electoral candidate to vote for any certain candidate or candidates in the electoral
                    college. As early as May the Adams men had chosen Isaac Blackford of 
                        Knox
                    , Jesse L. Holman of 
                        Dearborn
                    , James Scott of Clark, David H. Maxwell of 
                        Monroe
                    , and Christopher Harrison of 
                        Washington
                     as an electoral ticket while the Clay men had chosen William W. Wick of 
                        Marion
                    , Marston 
                  
                     29
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824, p. 174.
               
                     G. Clark of 
                        Washington
                    , James Rariden of 
                        Wayne
                    , Walter Wilson of Gibson, and Moses Tabbs of Knox as candidates.30
                    The Clay supporters were evidently in some doubt as to how their candidates would vote if elected
                    and the Indiana Guzette gave that as a cause for Clay men turning to 
                        Jackson
                    .31 It said: 
                        The circumstance of so many of the friends of Clay turning over to 
                                Jackson
                             in this State may be accounted for in some measure by the reason which we have
                            heard some give, i. e., that the electoral ticket got up for Clay is only a Crawford ticket
                            in disguise, and that should Clay be out of the question which is most likely these men will
                            then most likely vote for Crawford. The citizens of this State are not disposed to vote for
                            a caucus candidate under any circumstances and so long as it is understood that Clay
                            electors are inclined to Crawford in any event there will be continual falling off.32 The
                            reason is that the people would rather vote for Adams or 
                                Jackson
                            , than trust their cause in the hands of such men as transfer their interests to
                            a candidate whose elevation they do not wish to promote. They do not wish to elevate
                            Crawford over the shoulders of 
                                Clay
                            .
                    
            
            In the choice of a 
                        Jackson
                     ticket there was much confusion. Newspapers in various parts of the state proposed
                    names. The aim was to distribute them over the state as much as possible and yet get as strong 
                        Jackson
                     men as possible. It seemed impossible for the Jacksonian papers over the state to agree
                    upon the same five men. One ticket consisted of John Carr, John McCarty, Elias McNamee, Alexander
                    Devin, and Edward Patton.33 Another consisted of David Robb, Jonathan McCarty,
                    John 
                        Milroy
                    , and John Carr, while the fifth place was left open.34 There was a
                    third in the field put out in the extreme eastern part of the state. The 
                        Jackson
                     men in approaching the election with this confusion 
                  
                     30
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, May 22, 1824.
                  
                     31 Copied in Western Sun and General Advertiser,
                            Oct. 30, 1824. It is not known which Gazette this is. There were three in
                            the state at this time. One at Corydon, edited by the Brandons of whom Armstrong Brandon was
                            a graduate of Dickinson College, Penn. A strong 
                                Jackson
                             man and postmaster at Corydon; another at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , edited by Nathaniel Bolton and Judge Smith. Bolton was a strong 
                                Jackson
                             man but Smith was wavering in his support. It Was likely one of these two
                            papers. The third was at 
                                Evansville
                             but was not a strong paper.
                  
                     32 It is noticeable that there was no Crawford electoral ticket in the
                            field. The recent bank failures and the fact that he was the caucus candidate killed all his
                            chance in the state.
                  
                     33
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, June 26. 1824.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., July 31.
               
                     were fearful that altho they secured a majority of the votes in
                    the state, that some of the Clay men might secure a plurality through the 
                        Jackson
                     men not being united. To meet the need for a uniform ticket Elihu Stout35 of 
                        Vincennes
                     proposed a convention at 
                        Salem
                    . He said: 
                        The friends of the election of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             to the Presidency of the nation had long hoped that some arrangement would have
                            been made to secure a ticket so composed as to afford general satisfaction and to present a
                            rallying point to his supporters throughout the state.36
                  
                    
            
            He said that this had not been done and he then proposed a general convention. County committees, of
                    correspondence, and township committees of vigilance, he said, will secure to us such a ticket as
                    will produce unanimity among ourselves and afford general satisfaction; will secure certain and
                    speedy diffusion of information; and will secure such diligent activity and attention throughout the
                    state and on the day of election as will render success certain.
            He then called on all the friends of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     throughout the state, to exert themselves in their respective counties to procure
                    county meetings sometime in the month of August, and at such meetings to appoint a delegate or
                    delegates in proportion to their county's representation in the legislature, who would meet
                    in general convention in 
                        Salem
                     in 
                        Washington county
                     on Thursday after the first Monday in September next, there to nominate an electoral
                    ticket in favor of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     and to make such other arrangements as the good of the cause may require, and also to
                    appoint county committees of correspondence of five persons, and township committees of vigilance of
                    three persons each.
            Altho a general convention was a thing entirely new in the political experience of the country the
                    idea was immensely popular. The 
                        Jackson
                     men in the various counties began almost at once to hold county conventions to choose
                    delegates to 
                        Salem
                     and to choose the committees called for. On August 17, the 
                        Jackson
                     men of Gibson county met at 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                  
                     35 Elihu Stout was a native of 
                                New Jersey
                            , was a printer by trade and while working at his trade in
                                    
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , became a strong personal friend of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            . At this time he was editor of the Western Sun and General
                                Advertiser at 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  
                     36
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, June 26, 1824.
               
                    
                    
                  Appointed Charles Harrington a delegate to 
                                Salem
                            ;
                  Every person present pledged himself to vote for the candidates nominated at 
                                Salem
                            ;
                  David Robb, William Harrington, and Thomas J. Evans were appointed a committee of
                            correspondence;
                  The committee of correspondence was given the power to appoint township vigilance
                            committees of three;
                  They invited men of other counties to adopt similar measures and finally
                  They provided for the publishing of the proceedings of the meeting.37
                  
               
            
            The 
                        Jackson
                     men of 
                        Knox county
                     were called to meet August 29,38 and on that date at39 the courthouse in 
                        Vincennes
                    : they 
                  Appointed Samuel Judah and Jacob Call as delegates to 
                                Salem
                            ;
                  All present pledged themselves to vote for the nominees of the convention;
                  They appointed a committee of correspondence of three members, and
                  Provided for the publication of the proceedings;40
                  
                  They invited friends of 
                                Jackson
                             in other counties to join them.
               
            
            Similar conventions were held all over the state and on September 16, 1824,41 one
                    week later than the time set in the 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., Aug. 28, 1824.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., Aug. 21, 1824.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., Sept 4, 1824.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Sept. 11, 1824.
                  
                     41 This is apparently one among the very first conventions composed of
                            delegates selected to nominate candidates for office that ever represented the people Of any
                            state in the country. The claim has been made for 
                                New York
                            . The 
                                New York
                             convention, however, met on September 21 and 22, 1824, or the week after the
                            Indiana convention. The 
                                New York
                             convention was also something of a farce for it represented various factions
                            opposed to the legislative caucus candidate for governor and when DeWitt 
                                Clinton
                             received a majority vote for governor some of the other factions withdrew and
                            would not support him. (See Niles' Register, Oct. 2, 1824.) The
                            Federalists held a convention in 1808 and another in 1812, both in 
                                New York
                            , to nominate candidates for the Presidency. Both represented only the party
                            leaders, and both were intended to be kept secret from the mass of voters. See American Historical Review, vol. 17, p. 754, also Ibid., vol. I,
                            p. 680, and Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay, Vol IV, p. 362.
                            The Indiana convention on the other hand was a convention of delegates, selected for the
                            purpose and having back of them all the rudiments of the complicated modern political
                            machine, with its closely organized committee Western and each unit in close contact with
                            every other unit. This is evidently
               
                     original call, eighteen delegates, representing the counties of 
                        Fayette
                    , Gibson, Jefferson, 
                        Orange
                    , Clark, Lawrence, 
                  Shelby, Switzerland, Daviess, Knox, Ripley, Washington
               , Jennings, and 
                        Monroe
                    , met in 
                        Salem
                    .42 Samuel 
                        Milroy
                     of 
                        Washington county
                     was made chairman and Jacob Call of 
                        Knox county
                     secretary. Samuel 
                        Milroy
                     of 
                        Washington county
                    , David Robb of Gibson, Elias McNamee of 
                        Knox
                    , John Cam of Clark, and Jonathan McCarty of 
                        Fayette
                    , were unanimously agreed upon as an electoral ticket. Samuel Judah,43 Dr. Israel T. Canby, Henry S. Handy, Samuel Carr, and William Kelsey were appointed to
                    prepare and publish an address to the people of the state, on the approaching election.
            Dr. Canby of 
                        Madison
                    , Samuel Beach of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and Jesse B. Durham of 
                        Jackson county
                     were appointed a general correspondence committee with power to fill vacancies in the
                    electoral ticket. The convention requested counties that had not done so to appoint correspondence
                    committees. It also provided for the distribution of five hundred copies of the address of the
                    convention to the people and for the distribution of three thousand copies of the electoral ticket.
            The address to the people was a very lengthy discussion of the one issue of the campaign, the
                    personality of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    .34 It called attention to the fact that 
                        No one has been supported more warmly as having the strongest claims upon your judgment, your
                            patriotism, and your republicanism and no one has been opposed more virulently as being
                            destitute of all qualifications of a statesman, and dangerous to your civil rights than
                            Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            .
                    
            
            In dealing with his life it said: 
                        In' our estimation, a life devoted to the service of his country proves the
                            patriotism of General 
                                Jackson
                            . In early youth with the soldiers of the Revolution he fought and he bled in
                            his country's cause. In the 
                        more nearly the embryo of our committee and convention system than the 
                                        New York
                                     Convention.
                        
                           42
                                    Western Sun and General Advertiser, Sept. 25, 1824.
                        
                                    
                              43 Samuel Judah was well qualified for the task. He was a
                                        native of 
                                            New York
                                        . He was a graduate of Rutgers' college, 
                                            New Jersey
                                        . He was a son-in-law of Armstrong Brandon, postmaster of Corydon, a
                                        good lawyer and a very radical 
                                            Jackson
                                         man.
                                    Information given by Samuel Brandon Judah, his son, now a resident of Via-cennes,
                                        Indiana.
                                
                        
                           34
                                    Western Sun and General Advertiser, Oct. 16, 1824.
                     
                             strength of manhood, the destined master spirit of the
                            southern war. At the head of the Yeomanry of the West, he met the veterans of Wellington,
                            accustomed to danger, to blood, and to victory in the ensanguined plains of the Peninsula
                            and at their hands redeemed the country's honor.
                    
            
            Of the fitness for office it said: 
                        In every age we have seen men endowed with a universality of genius, a combination of
                            talents, capacitating them to uphold their country's honor amid the storms of war,
                            or to preside in the consultations of statesmen, and to guide their fellows in the paths of
                            peace to happiness and prosperity. We will only name 
                        Washington, Hamilton, Monroe
                     , and 
                                Jackson
                            . The history of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             presents every pledge deeds can give of his ability for all his country can
                            require of him.
                    
            
            It then magnified his knowledge of men, "greatness of intellect,"
                    "clearness of discrimination," "accuracy of judgment" and the
                    "continued tenor of his life," and added: "yet he is untrained in the
                    ways of political intrigue, and he denies the right, and he rejects the authority of congressional
                    caucuses—and therefore it is pretended he is not, he can not be a statesman." 
                        Washington
                    's military and political life was then reviewed with added declaration: 
                        They were not disappointed, nor will you be in putting your trust in Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            —in the hero of two wars—in the savior of 
                                New Orleans
                            , in him who retrieved his country's honor at the hands of the
                            lau-reled veterans of his country's enemy, will not, can not be disappointed. The
                            ghosts of Agathocles and of Philip of Macedon, of Caesar, and of the victim of St. Helena
                            are summoned from the shades to deter you from the elevation of General 
                                Jackson
                             to the presidency, to deter you from the cause pointed out, not only against
                            the judgment of your own unsophisticated minds but against the honest dictates of your
                            uncor-rupted hearts.
                    
            
            The history of 
                        Athens
                     was then reviewed with the conclusion: 
                        Virtue had ceased to exist at 
                                Athens
                            , the brightness of her glory was stained. Venality pervaded every department of
                            state and every class of men, the meretricious charms of wealth had inspired every person
                            and luxury had enfeebled every mind before Philip triumphed at Chaeronea.
                    
            
            
            In the example of 
                        Rome
                     it concluded that: 
                        Not the ambition of Caesar but the general practice of every vice which could corrupt the
                            heart, villify the mind or enfeeble the body of man, produced the destruction of Roman
                            liberty.
                    
            
            The analogy between 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                     and America is then drawn with the questions: 
                        Do you admit it? Do you in the infancy of your national existence confess you are demoralized
                            by public corruption? So vitiated by private vices that virtue and goodness, the love of
                            excellence has lost its attraction for you? That honor has ceased to influence you, and that
                            patriotism has become only a name to disguise your debasement? But if as your glorious
                            fathers you stand firm in your strength, if you rely on your own virtue and love of
                            liberty—to your rights and liberties, anticipation can not offer any fear.
                    
            
            
               
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Jackson
                     are then compared with the conclusion: 
                        Each first in the hearts of his countrymen has been called from retirement to the councils of
                            the nation. Each was ever distinguished by the amenity of his manners and each has ever been
                            regarded with love and reverence by all within his circle of action. Washington the
                            people's choice was elevated to the Presidency by the people-the prosperity of the
                            country proved the wisdom of his administration. Jackson, the people's choice is
                            now before you-will you complete the parallel?
                        As Americans, as citizens of the West, as Republicans, and as men only actuated by a sincere
                            love of our common country, of its glory, prosperity, and happiness, we most earnestly
                            recommend to you fellow citizens, to support the man of the people, Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            .
                    
            
            The ticket nominated at 
                        Salem
                     gave the 
                        Jackson
                     forces a united front and the address of the convention, exploiting the record of 
                        Jackson
                    , his political integrity, and especially his freedom from the caucus, and the fact that
                    he was the man of the people gave them a rallying point that was irrisistable. In the November
                    election 
                        Jackson
                     carried the state by a plurality of 2028 over Clay and 4250 over Adams. There was no
                    Crawford ticket in the field.35
            
            
               
                  35
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, Dec. 4, 1824. The vote stood 
                            Jackson
                        , 7343; 
                            Clay
                        , 5315, and Adams, 3093.
            
            
            THE SUCCESS OF THE JACKSON
                        PARTY
            
            In Indiana Jacksonian democracy was not the rallying of the people about a great issue. The issues
                    that we are accustomed to associate with the early Jacksonians did not enter into public discussions
                    in the state in a material way until 1828, or until Jacksonianism was at least four years old.
                    Jacksonian democracy in Indiana was rather a spirit. It was the manifest expression of that intense
                    feeling that the common people were supreme. The least show of luxury was a sign of pride or
                        aristocracy.1 The man who made such show was at once under suspicion. The
                    eastern politicians were the very incarnation of luxury and aristocracy. Jackson was the embodiment
                    of unsophisticated democracy. The frontiersman must fight for his existence and 
                        Jackson
                     was his champion., The Indian had been his most deadly enemy and 
                        Jackson
                     had mastered the Indian. The English had incited the Indian to murder and 
                        Jackson
                     had humbled the English. The uncultured mind demanded a hero and 
                        Jackson
                     met every qualification required of such a hero. So the campaign of 1824 was waged not
                    upon an economic or political principle, but about the popular hero, the man Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    . The four years' campaign that followed was not a struggle for the triumph of
                    a principle, but to vindicate an injustice to a popular hero, and political issues came into the
                    struggle as expediency or circumstance determined. As soon as the results of the contest in the
                    House of Representatives showing the election of Adams were known, the Western Sun and
                        General Advertiser said: 
                        In this day's paper I have given the result of the Presidential election in
                            congress, and contrary to my expectation the voice of a majority of 50,000 freemen has been
                            disregarded. The friends of 
                                Jackson
                             can console themselves for the disappointment under the firm conviction that
                            the voice of the American people was in his favor.2
                  
                    
            
            It began at once to create a sentiment adverse to the administration, and three weeks later it quoted
                    the National Intelligencer as saying: 
                  
                     1 In 1826 O. H. Smith gave up a borrowed buggy and went on horseback
                            for fear the people would think him proud and injure his chances for congress. See O. H.
                            Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 116.
                  
                     2 Feb. 26, 1825.
               
                    
                    
                        It is said, and we have no doubt of it, that the president elect has offered to Mr. Speaker
                            Clay the office of secretary of state and it seems to be thought he will accept it.3
                  
                    
            
            On the same date it quoted a letter from a Pennsylvania representative in congress to prove a charge
                    of the bargain between Clay and Adams. The author says: 
                        I shall therefore proceed to give you a brief account of such a bargain as can only be
                            equaled by the famous Burr conspiracy of 1801. For some time past the friends of Clay have
                            hinted that they, like the Swiss, would fight for those who would pay best. Overtures were
                            said to have been made by the friends of Adams to the friends of 
                                Clay
                            , offering him the appointment of secretary of state for his aid in electing
                            Adams and the friends of Clay gave this information to the friends of 
                                Jackson
                            , and hinted that if the friends of 
                                Jackson
                             would offer the same price, they would close with them. But none of the friends
                            of 
                                Jackson
                             would descend to such a mean barter and sale. I was of the opinion when I first
                            heard of this transaction that men professing any honorable principle could not nor would
                            not be transferred like the planter does his negroes or the farmer his team and horses. No
                            alarm was excited. We believed the Republic was safe. The nation having delivered 
                                Jackson
                             into the hands of Congress backed by a large majority of their votes, there was
                            no doubt in my mind that Congress would respond to the will of the nation by electing the
                            individual they had declared to be their choice, contrary to this expectation it is now
                            ascertained to a certainty that Henry Clay has transferred his interests to John 
                                Quincy
                             Adams. As a consideration for this abandonment of duty to his constituents it
                            is said and believed, should this unholy coalition prevail, Clay is to be appointed
                            Secretary of State. I have no fears in my mind. I am clearly of opinion we shall defeat
                            every combination. The force of public opinion must prevail, or there is an end of
                                liberty.4
                  
                    
            
            The election of Adams was met with a storm of protest and the campaign for the promotion of 
                        Jackson
                    's candidacy began immediately. The Western Sun and General
                        Advertiser quoted from the Somersville Advertiser: 
                        A minority candidate has been elected by the House, and thereby the voice of a majority of
                            the nation has been disregarded, defied. The people, particularly in the West, have not only
                            been misrepresented but the spirit of the constitution has been violated.5
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3 March 12, 1825.
               
                  4 Copied from 
                     
                                Columbus
                             Observer, Jan. 28.
               
                  5 April 2, 1825.
            
            
            On the same date it published a letter by 
                        Jackson
                    , which analyzed 
                        Clay
                    's charges that he was a military chieftain; reviewed his own achievements;
                    said that he became a soldier for the good of his country, and charged that Clay had never risked
                    himself for the country.6
            
            This spirit of hostility on the part of the 
                        Jackson
                     men was an apparent surprise to the Clay men. They had misjudged the spirit that was
                    opposed to them. A Clay man, over the signature "S" assured the friends of Clay in
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette that it was not to be supposed that General 
                        Jackson
                     could permit himself to be made a rallying point for opposition to the administration
                    until some measure had been adopted by it for which in his opinion it ought to forfeit the public
                    confidence. Those who had a proper confidence in Mr. Adams, Mr. Clay and the other principal men who
                    should direct the measures should have no reason to fear such an event. They might expect to see
                    General 
                        Jackson
                     acting consistently with his professions and giving to Mr. Adams a liberal support.7
            
            The personal fight against Clay and for 
                        Jackson
                    , was waged by the 
                        Jackson
                     men everywhere. Mr. Stout, the editor of the Western Sun and General
                        Advertiser, who was a close personal friend of 
                        Jackson
                    , and whose paper was the leading 
                        Jackson
                     paper in the state selected his articles from all parts of the country to show that the 
                        Jackson
                     sentiment was universal. For an excellent statement of the condition he used the
                    address of Mr. Kramer to the Ninth congressional district of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    : 
                        In determining to support Mr. Adams Mr. Clay did not only abandon his constituents and
                            violate those fundamental principles by which he has admitted himself to be bound to them,
                            but he threw the whole weight of his influence in favor of the man denounced by him as
                            particularly hostile to the interests of the West, and of whose pretentions to the
                            presidency he had spoken in all places and upon all occasions in language of contempt. It
                            can not be disguised that Mr. Clay was principally governed by the calculation that if
                            General 
                                Jackson
                             should now be elected his own prospects as a western man would be diminished,
                            but that the election of Mr. Adams, through his support would secure him the position of
                            "heir apparent" in the office of secretary of state and the future support
                            of Mr. Adam's friends in New 
                                England
                            . These selfish 
                        
                           6
                                    Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 23 and 25.
                        
                           7 Samuel Swartwout of 
                                        New York
                                    .
                     
                             and ambitious calculations were no doubt the basis of
                            this unnatural, this "unholy coalition" between Adams and 
                                Clay
                            .8
                  
                    
            
            A little later Mr. Clay's attempts to justify himself were published.9
                    The last of March, 1825, 
                        Jackson
                     came to 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , for a short stay. On the solicitations
                    of citizens of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, he crossed the river on Monday, April 4, and was greeted by a salute of
                    twenty-four guns and a delegation of citizens with an address which closed: 
                        Yes, General, the recollections of your eminent services and sacrifices, in the cause of our
                            country, shall ever live green in our memories, and our children's children be
                            taught to lisp with delight the name of 
                                Jackson
                            . 10
                  
                    
            
            At a public dinner in 
                        Louisville
                    , in honor of General 
                        Lafayette
                    , General John Carr offered the toast: 
                        General Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            , Posterity will view with admiration the deeds of glory achieved by the hero
                            whose motto was, ‘The country sacred to freedom and law.’11
                  
                    
            
            Throughout the year the personalities of 
                  Jackson,
                            Clay
                and Adams and the circumstance of the
                    "coalition" were kept before the people. One article showed how 
                        Jackson
                     lived at home;12 another gave an account of a reception to 
                        Jackson
                    ;13 another reported a speech by 
                        Jackson
                    ;14 another denied the rumor that 
                        Jackson
                     would not consent to be a, candidate in 1828;15 another commented
                    upon a speech by 
                        Jackson
                    ;16 "Between the coalition and General 
                        Jackson
                     how striking the contrast."
            
               
                        Jackson
                     was nominated, by the legislature of Tennessee as a candidate for the Presidency at the
                    next election in the autumn of 1825 by a unanimous vote. The main features of the session were:
            
               A preamble showing the merits of 
                            Jackson
                        . 
                     
                        8 April 30, 1825.
                     
                        9 May 7, and 14.
                     
                        10
                                Ibid., April 23, 1825.
                     
                        11
                                Ibid., May 28, 1826.
                     
                        12
                                Ibid., Oct. 8, 1825.
                     
                        13
                                Ibid., Nov. 19, 1825.
                     
                        14
                                Ibid., Nov. 26, 1825.
                     
                        15
                                Ibid., June 3, 1826.
                     
                        16
                                Ibid., Sept. 9, 1826.
                  
               
               
               A resolution nominating him.
               Speeches by various members praising 
                            Jackson
                         and pleading for the support of all Crawford men.17
               
            
            The most significant thing in the entire movement at this time was the total lack of any issue except
                    the personality of 
                        Jackson
                    . Not only the Indiana, but the entire western spirit seemed to be that: 
                        Jackson
                     is a man of the people. He was the people's choice for President. He has been
                    kept out of office by corruption and the people's wronged hero must be vindicated. The
                    great bulk of the voters saw no issue, no motive, no principle involved except the ultimate triumph
                    of 
                        Jackson
                    . The popular estimation of a public man was determined largely by the attitude of the
                    man toward 
                        Jackson
                    .
            O. H. Smith relates an incident of one of his campaigns in which he was questioned as to whether he
                    should vote for 
                        Jackson
                     or not. When he replied that he would not, the questioner informed him that he could
                    not get his vote.18 Not only did it enter into the reputation of public men, but
                    it also entered into the private and legal relation of the citizens. In 
                        Fayette county
                     a libel suit of Robert Helm, a Clay man, against Gabriel Ginn, a 
                        Jackson
                     man, was won with a jury of 
                        Jackson
                     men by the following speech: 
                        Gentlemen of the jury, we are trying one of the most important questions that has ever been
                            tried in the county. I hold the affirmative of the issue, the counsel opposed to me the
                            negative, and you are to decide it by your verdict. It is whether a 
                                Jackson
                             man will regard his oath and find according to the law and the evidence. You
                            are selected because the counsel for the defense supposed you would perjure yourselves to
                            acquit their client. I believe that a 
                                Jackson
                             man is just as honest as a Clay man, and will be no more likely to perjure
                            himself to acquit a 
                                Jackson
                             man than would a Clay man to convict him. Your names are on the record. The
                            eyes of the people are upon you——19
                  
                    
            
            This spirit of rugged honesty had been wounded to the heart by the apparent coalition between Clay
                    and Adams and it never recovered its former respect for Clay and the victim of the plot became all
                    the more dear to them because he was of their own kind, the real embodiment of their spirit.
            
               
                  17
                        Ibid., Nov. 12, 1825.
               
                  18 O. H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 86.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., 12.
            
            
            The fierceness of the 
                        Jackson
                     campaign was not abated in the least by the state election in 1825. Neither did the 
                        Jackson
                     controversy have any effect upon the state election.
            During the period of the rise of the Jacksonian spirit, the personality of the leadership in state
                    politics had been swiftly changing. Early in 1824 Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , the lieutenant governor, had resigned to become a candidate for congress in the First
                    district. James B. Ray of 
                        Brookville
                     was elected speaker pro tempore of the senate.
            Mr. Ray was a native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and a promising young lawyer. In person he was above the ordinary size, with a high
                    forehead, rather projecting, and a long queue. He was a powerful stump speaker.20 Mr. Ray was again elected speaker pro tempore of the senate in 1825. In a
                    very short time (February 12, 1825) William Hendricks resigned his seat as governor to become 
                        United States
                     senator. Thereupon Ray, as acting speaker of the senate, became governor for the
                    unexpired term.
            The contest for governor at the August (1825) election began early in March. David H. Maxwell, James
                    B. Ray and Judges Scott and Blackford were probable candidates.21 By the last of
                    March the active candidates for governor were, James B. Ray and Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , one of the Adams electors at the presidential election. For lieutenant governor the
                    candidates were Samuel 
                        Milroy
                    , Elisha Harrison, General W. Johnston and John L. Thompson.22
            
            Throughout the campaign the newspapers contained no mention of men or principles or party more than
                    to give the formal announcement of the candidates for office. Niles, however,
                    comments upon Ray's candidacy in rather unfriendly light: 
                        It may be mentioned, I believe, as a thing without precedent among us; that Mr. James B. Ray
                            has publicly offered himself as a candidate for the gubernatorial chair, and in a spirited
                            public address solicited the suffrage of the people. A proceeding which we think can not be
                            approved of, whatever be the merits of the individual in other respects.23
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  20 O. H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 86.
               
                  21
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, March 4-5, 1825.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., March 26, 1825.
               
                  23
                        Niles' Register, Aug. 20, 1825.
            
            
            The non-partisan character of the contest is best shown by the vote. Ray who had been a partisan of
                    Clay in the Presidential election received 13,040 votes to 10,218 for Isaac Black-ford who headed
                    the Adams electoral ticket; while John H. Thompson who had not been prominent in the Presidential
                    campaign was elected lieutenant governor with a vote of 10,781 to 7,496 for Samuel 
                        Milroy
                     who had been on the 
                        Jackson
                     electoral ticket.24 The 
                        Jackson
                     leaders, however, were not enthusiastic about the election of Ray and the Western Sun and General Advertiser in an editorial was very pessimistic. It said: 
                        We can not, nevertheless, refrain from remarking that in our humble opinion, the people of
                            Indiana might have selected a person in almost every respect better qualified to preside at
                            the helm of the State, than the individual whom they have elevated to that responsible
                                situation.25
                  
                    
            
            The congressional campaign of 1826 was almost equally free from the presidential question. In the
                    First district the candidates gave public notice of their candidacy without reference to party.26 Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , an active 
                        Jackson
                     man, Thomas H. Blake, who had favored 
                        Clay
                    , and Dr. Lawrence S. Shuler who had not been prominent in national politics were the
                    candidates. In the Second district Jennings who had been a Clay man but in the election in congress
                    voted for 
                        Jackson
                     although he personally favored Adams, was unopposed. In the Third district Judge John
                    Test, a Clay man, who had voted for 
                        Jackson
                     in the election in congress was opposed by Oliver Hampton Smith, another Clay man. In
                    the First district the main issue was the "northern canal" (the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                    ). All the candidates favored it but it was charged that Shuler did not. The charge
                    brought from him the declaration that: 
                        It is idle, preposterous and certainly inconsistent with candor and generosity to accuse any
                            of the present candidates for a seat in the national legislature of unfriendly disposition
                            toward internal improvements, for no man, we conscientiously believe, could be found who
                            would in his right senses raise his voice against undertakings calculated to contribute so
                            powerfully to the prosperity of the State in which we all have such a deep interest.27
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  24
                        House Journal, 1825, p. 23.
               
                  25 Aug. 27, 1825.
               
                  26
                        Ibid., Feb. 25, and April 1. 1826.
               
                  27
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, July 29, 1826.
            
            
            The charge, however, was enough to kill whatever chances he might have had. Boone was opposed in the
                    election because he was a radical partisan, but no attempt to defend him on that ground was made.
                    When Stout, the leading Jacksonian editor, allowed the statement that, "Colonel Boone makes
                    a good representative and I hope he will be elected," to go into his paper it was with the
                    explanation: "Inserted by request and paid for."28 The charge
                    of partisanship was too much for Boone to overcome and he was defeated by a vote of 5,223 for Blake
                    to 5,202 for Boone while Shuler received only 1,626.29 In the Second district,
                    on account of the lack of opposition, there was no issue. In the Third district Mr. Smith and Mr.
                    Test resorted to stump speaking and a chance alignment upon current topics. Smith says of the
                    campaign: 
                        Stump speaking was just coming into fashion. The people met our appointments by thousands.
                            The judge had his high character to aid him. I brought to my aid a strong voice reaching to
                            the very extremes of the largest crowds. The judge went in for graduation of public lands. I
                            went for home gifts to actual settlers. My position was the most acceptable to the
                                masses.30
                  
                    
            
            Mr. Smith' is, no doubt, entirely correct in his statements, for the vote of the district
                    stood, Smith 6,005, Test 4,946. The facts of the election bear out the statement of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette that: "The private opinions of members of Congress on the
                    presidential question have never been inquired into as a test of qualification."31 There was, however, a check in the agitation of national questions during
                    this campaign. In the senatorial election that followed, James Noble, Jonathan Jennings, and Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , then candidates, were all administration men and the presidential question did not
                    enter into the contest.32
            
            Early in 1827 the personality of 
                        Jackson
                     again became the, political theme. The earlier agitation had apparently aimed at making
                    Clay unpopular and at putting the people in a state of mind so that they could easily find fault
                    with the administration. 
                  
                     28
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 27, 1826.
                  
                     29
                            Niles' Register, Oct. 26, 1823.
                  
                     30
                            Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 80.
                  
                     31 Sept. 5, 1826.
                  
                     32 Mr. Noble was elected on the fourth ballot, the vote standing Noble
                            40, 
                                Blackford
                             28, Jennings 10. See Niles' Register, Jan. 6,
                        1827.
               
                     The whole force of argument was, from now on, aimed at centering
                    the attention of every one upon 
                        Jackson
                    , and to provide political machinery to elect him. The attitude of the west toward 
                        Jackson
                     was kept before the people. He was nominated by the Alabama legislature on January
                        10.33 His election was predicted by the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Kentucky Advertiser, February 15.34 He was invited to visit 
                        New Orleans
                     on the anniversary of the battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    , January 8,1827. The Western Sun and General Advertiser said:35 "The friends of the ‘coalition’ were called
                    upon by the authority presses of the city to be punctual in attendance and they obeyed the
                    call." It was strongly denied that he had broken up the home of a certain Lewis Roberts and
                    later married his divorced wife.36 He was again compared to 
                        Washington
                    .37 Clay challenged him to prove the charges of coalition.38
                    
                        Jackson
                     answered in a four column letter.39 In every issue from September
                    8,1827, until December 8, the Western Sun agitated the question "if
                    "coalition," and printed long letters, making direct charges also denials and
                    counter charges.
            After December 8, there is a change in the political attitude of the Western Sun and
                        General Advertiser. Early in the year there had been a meeting of friends of 
                        Jackson
                     at 
                        Baltimore
                     to perfect plans for the presidential campaign. The meeting recommended to the friends
                    of 
                        Jackson
                     to call meetings and arrange themselves in such a manner as would be most likely to
                    give efficiency to their measures and particularly to appoint delegates to meet in
                    general convention in the city of 
                        Baltimore
                     on the third Monday of May next40 (1828). It also provided for
                    representation in the convention. The Indiana 
                        Jackson
                     convention wad called for January 8, 1828. County conventions were held in Paoli,
                    December 1, and at 
                        Charlestown
                    , November 10,41 in which delegates were appointed to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention. Also committees of 
                  
                     33
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Feb. 17, 1827.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., Mar. 17, 1827.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., Mar. 31, 1827.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., May 5, 1827.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., June 23, 1827.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., June 21, 1827.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., Aug. 11, 1827.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Mar. 24, 1827.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., Dec. 15, 1827.
               
                     correspondence and vigilance committees were appointed. Jackson
                    was commonly spoken of as the "People's Favorite." The 
                        Knox county
                     convention at 
                        Vincennes
                    , December 22, 182742 also appointed committees of correspondence
                    and vigilance committees. It adopted the following resolution: 
                        
                     Resolved, That this meeting have the utmost confidence in the preeminent
                            abilities, firm patriotism and sincere devotion of General 
                                Jackson
                             to the best interest of his country and that we will use all fair and honorable
                            means in our power to promote his election.
                    
            
            Similar meetings were held in the various counties. The 
                        Jackson
                     convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 8. The president of the convention, Israel F. Canby, said in an address to the
                    convention: 
                        The cause of 
                                Jackson
                             is the cause of our country its liberties and constitution. The spirit of our
                            constitution was violated by the election of Adams and the liberties of the country
                            endangered by the baleful example. And it was in the person of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             that the rights of the people were assailed, so it is peculiarly proper that in
                            his person should the violated rights of the people be vindicated.43
                  
                    
            
            The convention chose Benjamin V. Beckes of 
                        Knox county
                    , Jesse B. Durham of 
                        Jackson
                    , Ross Smiley of Union, Ratliff Boone of Warrick and William Lowe of 
                        Monroe
                    , as candidates for electors.44 The convention also appointed a
                    committee of general superintendence of ten persons, any five of whom should have authority to act,
                    whose duty it should be to fill any vacancy which might occur in the electoral ticket: to announce
                    the person who might be selected by the friends of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     in the different states as the candidate for vice-president; to adopt such measures as
                    to them might appear necessary and proper to secure the united co-operation of all the friends of
                    the election of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     throughout the state; to provide the funds necessary to defray such expenses as might
                    be incurred and to adopt or recommend such measures as to them might appear expedient.45 The committee was also empowered to fill vacancies in its own ranks or to add 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., Dec. 29, 1827.
                  
                     43
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Jan. 19, 1828.
                  
                     44
                            Niles' Register, Feb. 9, 1828.
                  
                     45 Resolutions of Convention, Western nun and General
                                Advertiser, Jan. 26, 1828.
               
                     new members if necessary. The last resolution of the convention
                    requested the friends of the election of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    : 
                        To organize committees of correspondence in their counties and as far as possible committees
                            of vigilance in their several townships and to transmit the names of the gentlemen composing
                            such committee to the committee of general superintendence at 
                                Salem
                            . And that the members of the committee of general superintendence be requested
                            individually to use their exertions to give effect to this resolution.
                    
            
            The address of the convention46 to the people of the state declared that: 
                        The dawn of that political regeneration when those who fell with the first Adams'
                            rose with the second was witnessed with terror by the largest proportion of the Republicans
                            of the 
                                United States
                            .46
                  
                    
            
            It gave as its opinion that the spirit of the constitution had been violated by the election of
                    Adams. It declared that the power of congress to elect, "can not be arbitrary; the representatives have a discretion which they should exercise reasonably in
                    accordance with the will of their constituents." The election of Adams was attributed to
                    corruption, bargain and sale, and intrigue. Adams was accused of favoring the "English form
                    of government, Kings, lords, and commons as the consummation of human
                    wisdom." Then he was specifically charged as being hostile to the interests of the
                    west. The platform then discussed the career of 
                        Jackson
                    . This varied career was taken up in detail to prove the statement: "Acts tell
                    better than words," and the conclusion was reached "that upon his success in the
                    coming election much of the future happiness and prosperity of the country depends." The
                    line of safe precedents was condemned and it was declared "highly
                    necessary for the permanency of our institutions and for the preservation of our liberty to break in
                    upon the custom of electing the secretary of state to the Presidency."
            On the question of tariff it was extremely vague in its declaration that: 
                        In behalf of our constituents, in the name of the Democratic Republicans of the State we
                            assert our unhesitating determination to support the friends of the country and the
                            constitution, in the encouragement 
                        
                           46
                                    Ibid., Jan. 26, 1828.
                        
                           47
                                    Niles' Register, Feb. 9, 1828.
                     
                             and protection of the National Industry, Agricultural,
                            Manufacturing and Commercial, in the development of the resources of the country, and in all
                            their efforts for its general improvement, and such we believe to be the opinions of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            ; Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             and his political friends in the West are in favor of a general and impartial
                            protection of the National industry, but they are opposed to all mere sectional measures,
                            and especially to all measures calculated to oppress the poor for the benefit of the
                        rich.
                    
            
            An invitation was sent to General 
                        Jackson
                     to visit Indiana on July 4, and the central committee were requested to act as a
                    committee to meet him at 
                        Salem
                    .47 With the state convention, January 8, 1828, the campaign for the
                    election of 
                        Jackson
                     was begun, and the chief issue before the people was his personality and a vindication
                    of the wrong done him at the last election. The friends of the administration were no less energetic
                    in their efforts to elect their man than were the 
                        Jackson
                     or anti-administration men. The "Administration" state convention was
                    called at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 12, 1828. Delegates were chosen by county conventions the same as in the 
                        Jackson
                     convention. Practically the same county organization was effected as that used by their
                    opponents. The county convention at 
                        Vincennes
                     may be taken as an example.48 It appointed a committee of
                    correspondence and a vigilance committee. Its preamble was different from that of the Jacksonian
                    convention in that it dealt with specific principles rather than the character of individuals. It
                    said: 
                        
                     Whereas, The crisis has arrived which renders it necessary for the friends
                            of manufacturing interests and of internal improvements to unite in favor of the principles
                            and policies of the present administration, which have been uniformly expected to develop
                            the resources, encourage the industry and insure the true independence of our country.
                    
            
            Its resolutions:
            
               Expressed confidence in the Adams' administration;
               Exonerated Clay from the charge of corruption;
               Saw no need of advancing 
                            Jackson
                         to a place above many others of his companions in arms;
               Declared the characters of public men to be public property and deprecated the personal
                        attacks' of newspapers upon public men.
            
            
               
                  48
                        Western dun and General Advertiser, Jan. 5, 1828.
            
            
            The state convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 12,1828. John Watts, an old Revolutionary soldier, was made president. Joseph
                    Orr of 
                        Putnam county
                    , John Watts of 
                        Dearborn
                    , Joseph Bartholomew of Clark, Isaac Montgomery of Gibson, and Rev. James Armstrong of 
                        Monroe
                    , were chosen as an electoral ticket.49
            
            The address of the convention to the voters was prepared by a committee of fifteen.50 An address by the administration men of 
                        Dearborn county
                     gives us our best idea of their principles.51 It points out that
                    the only different between the 
                        Jackson
                     men and the Adams men was whether the election of John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams or that of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     to the presidency would be best calculated to obtain the end of which they all
                    professed to be aiming. It pointed out the fact that when they proposed to throw off the yoke of
                    Great Britain and establish the old confederation their motto was "Measures, not
                    Men." When they proposed to change the old confederation for the present their motto was
                    "Measures, not Men." When they proposed to change the old dynasty for the new by
                    placing the executive functions in the hands of Thomas Jefferson their motto was still
                    "Measures, not Men," but now, to effect the proposed change, they must change
                    their motto to "Men, not Measures." It gave as the reasons for supporting Adams:
            
               Because of his firm and steady adherence to Republican principles;
               Because of his tried abilities, untiring perseverence and stern unyielding integrity;
               Because he was better acquainted with the great political concerns of this country than any
                        man living and of course, better qualified to discharge the great and important trusts attached
                        to that elevated station;
               Because he was in favor of, and supported the American System;
               Because he was friendly to the interests of the West;
               Because he was a believer in and a professor of the doctrines of the Christian Religion, as
                        well as a practicer of its sublime precepts.
            
            It denied charges that Adams had used public money to fit up the White House with gambling apparatus
                    and tried to disprove 
                  
                     49
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Jan. 26, 1828.
                  
                     50 Given in the 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, Indiana University, July 31, 1828.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Palladium, Jan. 12, 1828.
               
                     the charge of corruption and showed that the Adams electors had
                    received a larger popular vote than the 
                        Jackson
                     electors had in the election of 1824. The campaign was now fairly launched. The
                    Jacksonians had no issue except the vindication of 
                        Jackson
                     while the motto of the administration was measures, not men. The administration forces
                    stood for Adams only in so far as he embodied the principles that they stood for, namely, a
                    protective tariff and internal improvements. Heretofore the question of internal improvements had
                    been a local question. Governor Jennings had called the attention of the General Assembly to the
                    need of roads and canals.52 Governor Hendricks had advised his General Assembly
                    to wait until the resources of the state were developed before attempting any system of internal
                        improvements.53 Governor Ray, in his message to the General Assembly in
                    1825, urged the necessity of adopting a system of internal improvements such as the building of
                    railroads, plank roads and canals,54 Meanwhile the people were clamoring for an
                    eastern outlet for commerce.55 All people desired it regardless of politics. A
                    candidate for state or local office who was not in favor of some system of internal improvements had
                    no chance of election. In 1826 and 1827 the candidates for the General Assembly generally pledged
                    themselves to promote internal improvements. William Polke, one of the candidates in 
                        Knox county
                    , said: 
                        I pledge myself to labor for the advancement of internal improvements, domestic manufacture,
                            and measures which may be calculated to advance the local interests and general prosperity
                            and improvement of our happy country.56
                  
                    
            
            Internal improvements and the tariff were brought before the people of the states as subjects for
                    political division by the General Assembly during their session of 1827-1828. This General Assembly
                    was not partisan. It had, however, a group of very radical 
                        Jackson
                     men who would not miss an opportunity to draw party lines. Their fight began early in
                    the season. 
                  
                     52
                            House Journal, 1818, p. 21.
                  
                     53
                            House Journal, 1822, p. 37.
                  
                     54
                            House Journal, 1825, p. 38.
                  
                     55 Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Indiana,
                            83 to 86.
                  
                     56
                            Western Bun and General Advertiser, Feb. 24, 1827.
               
                     On December 13, 1827, the engrossed joint resolution of the
                    General Assembly57
                    
                        To instruct our Senators and request our representatives in Congress to use every reasonable
                            effort to restrain the importation of hemp, raw wool and woolens, and to
                            afford all possible encouragement to all articles of American growth and manufacture, and to
                            give united cooperation to those of our sister States who encourage a national system of
                            domestic manufacture and internal improvements
                    
            
            Was read a third time and passed by a vote of 16 to 5.58 The five who voted
                    against it were Canby, Givans, 
                        Milroy
                    , Simonson and Smiley, all radical 
                        Jackson
                     men. Their opposition did not come because either they or their constituents were
                    opposed to the spirit of the resolution, so much, as it came because they felt that the General
                    Assembly was trying to influence public opinion. Two days later they entered the following formal
                    protest setting forth their views:59
                    
                        In protesting against the joint resolution of the General Assembly which the Senate passed on
                            the 13th inst.: "the undersigned feel it a duty which they owe to themselves, their
                            political friends and their constituents to avow themselves the warm and decided friends of
                            domestic manufacture, and internal improvements and pledge themselves to support honestly
                            and heartily the friends of the country and the constitution in the encouragement and
                            protection of its national industry in all its branches, agricultural, manufacturing and
                            commercial in the development of the resources of the country and in their efforts for its
                            general improvement. They object to the resolution because it is partial in its provisions
                            and because they deem it inexpedient at this time to legislate on the subject. The
                            undersigned consider the aforesaid resolution a direct censure of the conduct of our
                            representatives in Congress, who voted against the woolen bill of last session—a
                            measure partial in its provisions and unjust in its operation on the western country, for it
                            imposed enormous duties on imported woolens, a measure in which the eastern States are
                            particularly interested, while it left the manufacturers of iron, lead, and domestic
                            distilled spirits, the growers of wool and hemp and the agriculture of the West in general
                            without protection, and 
                        
                           57
                                    Senate Journal, 1827, p. 57.
                        
                           58 Presented in the National Senate by Wm. Hendricks, Feb. 20,
                                    1828. See Western Sun and General Advertiser, Mar. 29, 1828.
                        
                           59
                                    Senate Journal, 1827, p. 63. In the House, Messrs. Samuel Judah,
                                    William Marshall, John M. Simon, Joseph Work, William Lowe and Eliphalet Allen
                                    protested against the resolution first because it was not within the power delegated
                                    to them by their constituents to petition on matters of national character. Second
                                    by the exclusion of "hemp, raw wool and woolens" and exclusion of
                                    foreign distilled spirits it discriminated indirectly against Indiana's
                                    staple product, corn. House Journal, 1827, p. 412.
                     
                             when a proposition was made by a western member to
                            include domestic distilled spirits in the bill it was rejected, thereby showing
                            determination on the part of the friends of that measure to protect eastern and exclude
                            western interests.
                        The undersigned firmly believe that any attempt by the General Assembly under any
                            circumstance to influence public opinion in relation to the presidential election in favor
                            of any candidate would be improper and break the trust confided in them by their
                            constituents, and the result of the passage of this resolution will be to influence public
                            opinion within this State, but more especially within adjoining States, as to the vote of
                            Indiana at the approaching election of president of the 
                                United States
                            . The undersigned deprecate the spirit of the last clause of the resolution in
                            their opinion but too well calculated to engender sectional animosities and array State
                            against State. They therefore feel it their bounden duty to enter this protest.
                        ISRAEL T. CANBY, ROSS SMILEY, THOMAS GIVENS, JOHN MILROY.
                    
            
            They were in a position that demanded all the strategy that they could muster. The entire state
                    demanded internal improvements and stood for the American system and the Adams administration was
                    the champion of the principles with the motto: "Measures, not Men," and was
                    appealing to the country for a re-election. They were for 
                        Jackson
                     regardless of measures and without measures. This protest on the part of the 
                        Jackson
                     men was met by a counter protest by James Rariden, an ardent administration man. In
                    protesting he said: 
                        The undersigned, while he concedes great latitude to the minority in protesting against acts
                            and proceedings of the majority, protests against the extension of that right, so far as to
                            authorize gentlemen in the minority after their deliberate and solemn vote, denouncing the
                            protection given by the general government to our domestic manufacturers and denying the
                            powers of the general government to carry on and prosecute the present plan for internal
                            improvements of the country, to then by way of protest, spread contrary opinions on the
                            journals on those subjects and vindicate themselves from effects of an unpopular vote and
                            ruinous policy by imputing to the friends of the American system and of this resolution a
                            design to mislead the public mind on other political topics, and thereby excuse themselves
                            by holding up the proposition as a mere political maneuver, and slight of hand trick of the
                            friends of the present administration.
                        The undersigned admits that the circumstance of the minority being anxious for the promotion
                            of a particular individual for the presidential  chair
                            may be a good reason for their opposition to the policy in the resolution recommended, but
                            denied that that circumstance is of itself sufficient to alter the nature or the character
                            of the policy recommended. The undersigned further protests against the indulgence asked on
                            the part of the minority, to object against the passage of this resolution, because it does
                            not embrace other productions of the 
                                United States
                            , because in reality that minority suggests no such amendments except foreign
                            distilled spirits and conceding that such a cause is calculated to impose upon the public
                            and give such minority credit for principles they do not advocate. James Rariden.60
                  
                    
            
            This is the very first instance of the tariff or internal improvements ever being discussed in the
                    state General Assembly as a national issue, likely to effect a national election.
            The 
                        Jackson
                     men were not satisfied and insisted on urging the presidential question. On January 22,
                    1828, Senator John 
                        Milroy
                     of Orange and Lawrence counties, read a resolution which was seconded, requesting the
                    governor of this state to correspond with General Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     relative to his construction of the constitution of the 
                        United States
                     on the power of congress to appropriate money for the general system of internal
                    improvements and their power to lay such protecting duties as will encourage domestic manufacturers,
                    also to correspond with John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, President of the 
                        United States
                    , relative to certain votes said to have been given by him in the senate of the 
                        United States
                     against the organization of Louisiana and relative to a certain coalition said to have
                    been formed between that gentleman and Mr. Clay.61
            
            Mr. Milroy asked the senate to agree to pass the resolution by a unanimous vote. They refused to do
                    this and Mr. Milroy withdrew the resolution. He had, however, brought the presidential contest into
                    question again and it was not to be checked until it had forced the issue upon the 
                        Jackson
                     men. Mr. Graham of 
                        Jackson
                    , Scott, and 
                        Bartholomew
                    , immediately offered the following resolution: 
                        
                     Whereas, The friends of General 
                                Jackson
                             in the western states advocate his election on the grounds of his being
                            friendly to internal improvements and the advocate of judicious tariff for the protection of
                            American manufacturers; and
                        
                     Whereas, The friends of the same distinguished individual in 
                                Virginia
                            , the Carolinas, 
                        Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama
                     , and Mississippi advocate 
                        
                           60
                                    Senate Journal, 1827, p. 64.
                        
                           61
                                    Senate Journal, 1827, p. 225-226
                     
                             his claim to the first office of the nation, on account
                            of his opposition to the above measures or system of policy, therefore for the purpose of
                            enabling the citizens of Indiana to ascertain what are the real sentiments of General 
                                Jackson
                             and to give them an opportunity to vote understandingly at the next
                            presidential election, in reference to these great interests.
                        
                     Resolved, By the senate that his excellency, the governor, he requested to
                            address a respectable letter to General Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            , inviting him to state explicitly whether he favors that construction of the
                            constitution of the 
                                United States
                             which authorizes congress to appropriate money for the purpose of making
                            internal improvements in the several states, and whether he is in favor of such a system of
                            protective duties, for the benefit of American manufacturers, as will in all cases where the
                            raw material and the ability to manufacture it exist in our country secure the patronage of
                            our own manufacture to the exclusion of those of foreign countries. And whether, if elected
                            President of the 
                                United States
                            , he will in that capacity recommend, foster and support the American system.
                        
                     Resolved, That his excellency, the governor, be requested as soon as he
                            receives the answer of General 
                                Jackson
                             to the letter contemplated in the preceding resolution, to cause the same to be
                            published together with these resolutions in the newspapers of 
                                Indianapolis
                            .62
                  
                    
            
            This resolution carried by a vote of fourteen to five—Canby, Givens, 
                        Milroy
                    , Simonson and Smiley forming the negative. The attempt of the 
                        Jackson
                     men to have an embarrassing resolution submitted to Adams reacted and 
                        Jackson
                     was the one to suffer the embarrassment, but not without a protest on the part of his
                    friends. The next day, January 23, 1828, Senator John 
                        Milroy
                     entered the following formal protest: 
                        I do, for myself and the friends of General 
                                Jackson
                            , protest against the resolution of this senate of the 22nd inst. for the
                            following reasons, viz.: (1) That the resolution read in my place was not with any intention
                            meant for record, but for the following reasons: That some of the friends of the
                            administration had solicited some enactment or resolution to procure an explanation of his
                            views on the subject of internal improvements and domestic manufacturers and had proposed a
                            resolution which I desired to offer, which I agreed to on condition of having the right to
                            alter, amend, change, etc., which was handed to me and on considering the propriety of such
                            legislation did and do now consider such subjects improper subjects for legislation.
                        And further believing that General 
                                Jackson
                             has made and given such evidence of his views on those subjects that any
                            legislative pro- 
                        
                           62
                                    Ibid., p. 225-226.
                     
                             ceedings with a view to draw from him any further
                            declaration on those subjects, would be a direct charge on his integrity and consistency as
                            an honest man and politician.
                        His votes in the senate of the 
                                United States
                            , will fully show that he is the firm and decided friend of internal
                            improvements to the full extent that the friends of that system do themselves construe the
                            constitution to authorize. And that his votes on the tariff of 1824 prove also that he did
                            go as far as the friends of that system. From these numerous votes given by him and which
                            stand recorded on the Journals of the senate of the 
                                United States
                            , when he was a member, with letters which he has written to individuals using
                            arguments to prove the propriety of such a system of domestic manufacture, and the propriety
                            of protecting duties, etc.
                        
                     Whereas, Though legislative proceedings on these subjects are by me
                            considered as an atack on his integrity, I believe were his friends to write him that he
                            would give his views in full which would shut the mouths of his enemies on such subjects.63
                  
                    
            
            The next day, January 24, the members who supported the Graham resolution declared in a signed
                    statement that they had no intention of drawing 
                        Jackson
                     out on the subjects of Internal Improvements and the Tariff until Mr. Milroy started
                    the controversy.64
            
            On January 30, Governor Ray sent the Senate resolution to General 
                        Jackson
                    , accompanied by a long letter with the questions: 
                        Do you believe that congress has the right to appropriate money from the common treasury to
                            make roads and canals?
                        Do you believe that congress has the power to make internal improvements through state
                            sovereignties without the consent of the states or is it your opinion that that body can
                            only appropriate money and put it under the agency of the state for application?
                        What are your present opinions of Tariff?
                        How far are you willing to go in imposing duties to protect American Manufacturers?
                        Are you a friend of the American system?
                        Are you in favor of the Woolens bill that was before the last congress?
                        Are you in favor of a protective tariff on imports?65
                  
                    
            
            The governor assured the General that this letter was not dictated by any other motive than
                    friendship.
            
               
                  63
                        Senate Journal, 1827, p. 249.
               
                  64
                        Senate Journal, 182'7, 260.
               
                  65
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 19, 1828.
            
            
            In reply 
                        Jackson
                     said: 
                  
                     
                        SIR:
                        I have had the honor to receive your excellency's letter of the 30th ultimo
                                    inclosing resolutions of the state of Indiana, adopted as it appears with the view
                                    of ascertaining my opinions on certain political topics. The respect which I
                                    entertain for the executive and senators of your state, excludes from my mind the
                                    idea that an unfriendly intention dictated the interrogatories which are proposed.
                                    But I will confess my regret at being forced by this sentiment, to depart in the
                                    smallest degree from that determination on which I have always acted. Not, Sir, that
                                    I would wish to conceal my opinions from the people upon any political or national
                                    subjects; but as they were in various ways promulgated in 1824. I am apprehensive
                                    that my appearance before the public at this time, may be attributed, as has already
                                    been the case, to improper motives.
                        With these remarks I pray you, sir, to state to the senate of Indiana that my
                                    opinions at present are precisely the same as they were in 1823 and 1824, when they
                                    were communicated by letter to Dr. Coleman of 
                                        North Carolina
                                    , and when I voted for the present tariff and for appropriations for
                                    internal improvements. As that letter was written when the divisions of sentiment,
                                    on this subject were as strongly marked as they are now, in relation both to the
                                    system, it is enclosed herein, and I beg the favor of your excellency to consider it
                                    a part of this communication. The occasion out of which it arose was embraced with a
                                    hope of preventing any doubt, misconstruction, or necessity for further inquiry
                                    respecting my opinions on the subject to which you refer particularly in those
                                    states which you have designated as cherishing a policy at variance with your own.
                                    To preserve our invaluable constitution and be prepared to repel the invasions of a
                                    foreign foe, by the practice of economy, and the cultivation within ourselves of the
                                    means of national defense and independence should be, it seems to me, the leading
                                    objects of any system which aspires to the name "American," and of
                                    every prudent administration of our government.
                        I trust, sir, that these general views taken in connection' with the letter
                                    enclosed and the votes referred to, will be received as a sufficient answer to the
                                    inquiries suggested by the resolution of the senate. I will further observe to your
                                    excellency that my views of constitutional power and American policy were imbibed in
                                    no small degree in the times and from the ages of the Revolution, and that my
                                    experience has not disposed me to forget their lessons. And in conclusion I will
                                    repeat that my opinions remain as they existed in 1823-1824 uninfluenced by the
                                    hopes of personal aggrandizements, and that I am sure, they will never deprive: me
                                    of the proud satisfaction of having always been a sincere and consistent Republican.
                        I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
                        
                                    ANDREW JACKSON.66
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  66
                        Niles Register, May 3, 1828, also the Western Sun and General
                            Advertiser, May 10, 1828.
            
            
            The letter referred to was sent by General 
                        Jackson
                     on April 26, 1824, to Dr. L. E. Coleman of Warrenton, 
                        North Carolina
                    , in answer to an inquiry addressed by the Doctor to 
                        Jackson
                    . It said in part: 
                  
                     
                        You asked my opinions on the tariff. I answer that I am in favor of a judicious
                                    examination and revision of it, and so far as the tariff bill before us embraces the
                                    design of fostering, protecting and preserving within ourselves the means of
                                    national defense and independence particularly in the state of war I would advocate
                                    and support it. The experience of the late war [1812] ought to teach us a lesson and
                                    one never to be forgotten. If our liberty and republican form of government procured
                                    for us by our revolutionary fathers were worth the blood and treasure at which they
                                    were obtained, it surely is our duty to protect and defend them. Can there be an
                                    American patriot who saw the privations, dangers and difficulties experienced for
                                    the want of proper means of defense during the last war, who would be willing again
                                    to hazard the safety of our country if embroiled, or to rest it for defense on the
                                    precarious means of national resource to be derived from commerce in a state of war
                                    with a maritime power who might destroy that commerce to prevent us obtaining the
                                    means of defense and thereby subdue us. I am sure he does not deserve to enjoy the
                                    blessings of freedom. Heaven smiled upon and gave us liberty and independence. The
                                    same providence has blessed us with the means of national defense. If we omit or
                                    refuse to use the gifts which he has extended to us we deserve not the continuation
                                    of his blessing. He has filled our mountains and our plains with minerals-with lead,
                                    iron and copper, and given us climate and soil for the growing of hemp and wool.
                                    These being the grand materials of our national defense they ought to have extended
                                    to them adequate and fair protection that our manufacturers and laborers may be
                                    placed on a fair competition with those of Europe, and that we may have within our
                                    country a supply of those leading and important articles so essential in war.
                        Beyond this, I look at the tariff with an eye to the proper distribution of labor and
                                    to revenue; and with a view to discharge our national debt. I am one of those who do
                                    not believe a national debt a national blessing, but rather a curse to the republic:
                                    in so much as it is calculated to raise around the administration a monied
                                    aristocracy, dangerous to the liberties of the country. This tariff—I
                                    mean a judicious one—presages more fanciful than real dangers. I will ask
                                    what is the real situation of the agriculturist? Where has the American a market for
                                    his surplus product? Except for cotton he has neither a foreign nor a home market.
                                    Does not this clearly prove, when there is no market either at home or abroad that
                                    there is too much labor employed in agriculture, and that the channels of labor
                                    should be multiplied? Common sense at once 
                              
                                 67
                                            Niles' Register, June 12, 1824, also Western Sun and General Advertiser, May 10, 1828.
                           
                                     points out the remedy. Draw from agriculture
                                    this superabundance of labor; employ it in mechanism and manufacture, thereby
                                    creating a home market for your bread stuffs and distributing labor to the most
                                    profitable account, and benefit to the country will result. Take from agriculture in
                                    the 
                                        United States
                                     six hundred thousand men, women and children, and you will at once give
                                    a home market for more breadstuffs than all Europe now furnishes us. In short, sir,
                                    we have been too long subject to the policy of British merchants. It is time that we
                                    should become a little more Americanized; and instead of feeding the paupers and
                                    laborers of 
                                        England
                                     feed our own, or else in a short time by continuing our present policy
                                    we shall all be rendered paupers ourselves.
                        It is thereby my opinion that a careful and judicious tariff is much wanted to pay
                                    our national debt, and afford us the means of that defense within ourselves, on
                                    which the safety of our country and liberty depends; and last though not least give
                                    a proper distribution to our labor which must prove beneficial to the happiness,
                                    independence, and wealth of the community.
                        This is a short outline of my opinions generally on the subject of your inquiry and
                                    believing them correct and calculated to further the prosperity and happiness of my
                                    country, I declare to you, I would not barter them for any office or situation of
                                    temporal character that could be given me.
                        I have presented you with my opinions freely because I am without concealment and
                                    should indeed despise myself if I could believe myself capable of desiring the
                                    confidence of any means so ignoble.67
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            This letter of 
                        Jackson
                    's proved to be one of the most history-making letters ever sent into the
                    state. Until now the 
                        Jackson
                     forces had been clinging to the personality of 
                        Jackson
                    . They could justify themselves before the world by no reason or cause except righteous
                    indignation that so just and honest a man as he should suffer through the workings of corrupt public
                    men. Moreover they were met at every turn by the administration forces, with the cry of
                    "measures, not men" and preaching internal improvements and protective tariff. The 
                        Jackson
                     forces must have a principle a "measure" or their case was at least a
                    difficult one. The word "judicious" in 
                        Jackson
                    's letter to Dr. Coleman gave them their long desired measure. Hereafter,
                    instead of being the "friends" to the election of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    ," they were styled the friends of a "judicious tariff." As
                    soon as the letter was published the Jacksonian press and politicians had their weapon to meet the
                    challenge of the Adams forces. The Adams men in great numbers, and without stopping to analyze the
                    real meaning  of the letter—if it had any, flocked to
                    the 
                        Jackson
                     standard. Three of the Administration Central Committeemen, John Hartley, Michael Thom,
                    and William Johnson, resigned and declared themselves in favor of 
                        Jackson
                    .68 Hartley, in offering his resignation, said: 
                        The plain, satisfactory and unequivocal declaration of General 
                                Jackson
                             in his correspondence with Governor Ray upon the resolution of the senate of
                            our state has wrought a thorough and complete change.
                    
            
            This was typical of the entire state. The 
                        Jackson
                     forces gained strength daily while the Administration men seemed to realize that their
                    cause was lost.
            On February 22, 1828, the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee met at 
                        Salem
                    ,69 and perfected the organization within the state by providing for
                    the forming of new and filling up old correspondence committees in the various counties. It also
                    nominated John C. Calhoun for the vice-presidency. The Western Sun and General
                        Advertiser's account of a meeting in Gibson county is typical of the spirit and
                    phraseology of campaign literature during the remainder of the year. It says: 
                        A very numerous meeting of the Jacksonians friendly to the American System of Internal
                            Improvements and to protecting agriculture and domestic manufacture by a judicious, just and fair tariff, that will protect in an equal degree the industry
                            and surplus productions of each section of our common country, was held at the court house
                            in 
                                Princeton
                            , Gibson county, Indiana, on Saturday, April 26 1828. A committee of
                            correspondence and vigilance committees were appointed and resolutions were passed
                            commending 
                                Jackson
                            's letter to Dr. Coleman.70
                  
                    
            
            On May 5, this committee of correspondence provided for the distribution of one hundred copies of the
                    address of the convention of April 26, also for the distribution of a hundred copies of the
                    proceedings of the committee meetings.71 In this way the Coleman letter was put
                    within reach of every voter in the state. The central committee met at various times through the
                        year.72 Their work seems to have consisted in 
                  
                     68
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 26, 1828.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., Mar. 16, 1828.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., May 31, 1828.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., May 31, 1828.
                  
                     72 The Western Sun and General Advertiser contains
                            notices of meetings at 
                                Salem
                            . 3rd Monday in April (12), 1st Monday in May (Apr. 26), Oct. 18, (Oct. 4,
                            1822).
               
                     sending out literature and directing the work of the various
                    county committees of correspondence.
            The tariff literature of the campaign was selected from all parts of the country. The
                        Western Sun. and General Advertiser, the leading 
                        Jackson
                     paper, published, on February 23, an extract from the 
                        Ohio
                        Jackson
                     convention address. It condemned the Adams administration for insincerity on the tariff
                    and quoted extracts from the Coleman letter to show 
                        Jackson
                    's attitude. It also called attention to his votes in the senate, March 8th and
                    15th it published a report of the committee on manufactures which recommend the alteration of
                    several duties on imports, on April one from the National Journal to show that
                    when the pending tariff bill was reported by the committee, the five 
                        Jackson
                     members of this committee reported favorably while the two administration members were
                    opposed. In the same issue it published an open letter by the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee. This letter reviewed 
                        Jackson
                    's record while in congress; emphasized the phrase "judicious
                    tariff," charged that the Adams Administration was trying to strangle the whole tariff
                    question and finally showed that the will of the people had been overthrown in the election of
                    Adams. On June 14, it quoted a letter of 
                        Jackson
                     to Colonel R. Paterson from the Maryland Advocate:
                    
                        Upon the success of our domestic manufactures as the handmaid of agriculture and commerce
                            depends in a great measure the independence of our country. And I assure you that no man can
                            feel more sensibly than I do the necessity for protecting them.
                    
            
            While the 
                        Jackson
                     committees and press were busy in the work of perfecting their organization and
                    educating the voters, the Administration men were no less active. The work of organization was done
                    fully as early by them as by their opponents. We have noticed that,73
                    "The friends of the Administration met at 
                        Princeton
                     in Gibson county, February 19, 1828, and appointed committees of vigilance and
                    correspondence for the several townships in the county." This was more than two months
                    earlier than the 
                        Jackson
                     convention which was held April 26. Their central committee was also just as active as
                    the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee. It met at 
                        Salem
                    , 
                  
                     73 Western Sun and General Advertiser, Mar. 8, 1828.
               
                     March 3, 1828.74 Bad weather prevented a
                    full attendance and it adjourned until the third Monday in April, then to nominate a candidate for
                    vice-president, also to appoint a candidate to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Rev.
                    James Armstrong, who gave as his reasons, religious duties. At the meeting on April 21, Richard Rush
                    of Pennsylvania was nominated for the vice-presidency and Amaziah Morgan of Rush county was placed
                    on the electoral ticket. They arranged for an address to the people of the state, enlarged the
                    central committee, asked the secretaries to determine by correspondence the will of the people in
                    the various counties and provided for call meetings. As in the case of their opponents the
                    Administration forces selected their literature from the entire country. They used the address of
                    the Virginia Anti-
                        Jackson
                     convention to the people. It showed that 
                        Jackson
                     Was unqualified for the presidency.
            The 
                        Jackson
                     forces were called upon to meet a rather serious charge against their hero. The charge
                    was made that 
                        Jackson
                     had allowed six militiamen to be tried by court martial and put to death by
                        shooting.76 He was severely criticised for it while the anti-administration
                    papers were kept busy explaining and justifying. The evidence was carefully reviewed and mutiny was
                        proven.77 It was shown that General Duncan McArthur, William Henry Harrison,
                    and 
                        Washington
                     had done the same thing. Finally the military documents of the case were published in
                        full.78
                    
                        Jackson
                     was also accused of voting for a property qualification for voters while in the
                    Tennessee legislature.79 His attitude in the arrest of Aaron Burr on the charges
                    of treason was seriously questioned and his friends had to justify his conduct.80 The question of religion was also brought into the campaign and 
                        Jackson
                     was both defended and condemned by leading church people.81 In
                    June, the newspapers and Jacksonian committees over the State had to warn the voters against a
                    "garbled and spurious 
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., Mar. 22.
                  
                     76
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Mar. 8, 1828.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., Mar. 8. 1828.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., Mar. 29, and June 14.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., May 31, 1828.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., July 12, 1828.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., Oct. 11, 1828.
               
                     life of 
                        Jackson
                    ."82 It proved 
                        Jackson
                     to be one of the greatest dunces and blunderbusses in the world. Even in his military
                    campaigns in every case where he won a victory it was most logically proven that he should have been
                    defeated. The Western Sun and General Advertiser charged that83 it was franked into the First district by Colonel Blake who hoped to be elected to congress
                    by the votes of the 
                        Jackson
                     men.
            Equally vile charges were made against Adams. It was charged that he was in favor of the slave
                        trade.84 He WM also charged with driving away an old Revolutionary soldier
                    seeking aid when he came to 
                        Washington
                    .85 The Western Sun makes the incident the basis
                    of a half column article condemning Adams. The article begins: 
                        Ingratitude more strong than traitors' arms exemplified in the conduct of John 
                                Quincy
                             Adams towards the patriots of the Revolution.86
                  
                    
            
            While the 
                        Jackson
                     forces were busy denying charges and making counter charges they were also busily
                    lauding 
                        Jackson
                    . Statements made in former years by Jefferson, 
                  Monroe, Madison
               , J. Q. Adams, H.
                    Niles and others were published to prove 
                        Jackson
                    's moral worth and his military ability.87 The editorial
                    columns were largely devoted to him. The Western Sun and General Advertisers is
                    characteristic of the 
                        Jackson
                     press, when it says: 
                        We appeal to the good sense of the people and ask them if it is republican, that all the
                            treasure and highest honors should be poured out upon one individual. Had not Mr. Adams been
                            well paid for the services he had ever rendered? Why should the public and private character
                            of General 
                                Jackson
                             be annulled upon the altar of Mr. Adams' ambition? Why do we see the
                            poisoned arrows of envenomed slander hurled at the amiable partner of the patriot hero? Is
                            it not that Mr. Adams may enjoy the pomp and pride of office for four years more.88
                  
                    
            
            The open letter with questions meant to perplex but not be answered was also characteristic. The
                    letters of "Southern" is typical of this kind of literature. He said: 
                  
                     82 Ibid., June 21, 1828.
                  
                     83 Ibid., July 12, 1828.
                  
                     84 Ibid., May 31, 1828.
                  
                     85 Ibid., July 26, 1828.
                  
                     86 Ibid., Oct. 18. 1828.
                  
                     87 Ibid., July 18, and Oct. 25, 1828.
                  
                     88 Mar. 1, 1828.
               
                    
                    
                        The following remarks are addressed to the unprejudiced and moderate friends of the
                            administration. We appeal to their good sense, to their knowledge of the events that have
                            happened since 1789, and if they can reconcile with' their better judgment the
                            support they give to Mr. Adams, we will have to admit the blindness of partiality which will
                            not suffer reason to use and exercise all of its powers.89
                  
                    
            
            He then reviews our history for the time mentioned. The speech of Francis Boylies of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , copied in the Western Sun and General Advertiser (September 20,
                    1828), is typical of both the printed and spoken oration of the campaign as well as being an
                    embodiment of the real feelings of the people on the subject. He said: 
                        He (
                                Jackson
                            ) had not the privilege of visiting the courts of Europe at the
                                public expense and mingling with the kings and great men of the earth and of
                            glittering in the beams of royal splendor. He grew up in the wilds of the West, but he was
                            the noblest tree in the forest. He was not dandled into consequence by lying in the cradle
                            of state, but inured from infancy to the storms and tempests of life, his mind was
                            strengthened to fortitude and fashioned to wisdom.
                    
            
            As the time for the election approached there was evidence of corruption. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Advertiser warned the people of Indiana that when it was too near election to
                    correct the report, the Administration forces would start the report that General 
                        Jackson
                     was dead.90 The distribution of tickets on election day and even
                    prior to that day gave a chance for corruption, and 
                        Jackson
                     papers complained of the use of a ticket headed "
                        Jackson
                     Electoral Ticket" but containing the names of three administration electors
                    and two 
                        Jackson
                     men.91 We find no record of irregular practice on the part of the
                    Jacksonians. The explanation, no doubt, is in the lack of record rather than the lack of
                    irregularities, for the 
                        Jackson
                     forces were too wise to allow a chance of advantage to pass.
            As election day approached the Western Sun and General Advertiser charged its
                    readers in an editorial (October 25 and November 1). 
                  
                     89
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Sept. 20, 1828.
                  
                     90
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Sept. 20, 1828.
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., Nov. 15.
               
                    
                    
                        OUR NEXT PRESIDENY.
                        Freemen cheer the hickory tree. In storms its boughs have sheltered thee, O'er
                            freedom's land its branches wave 'Twas planted on the Scion's
                            grave.
                        Jacksonians, do your part. The day comes hastening apace when it is your indispensable duty
                            to evince your gratitude to your country's savior by thrusting upon him your votes
                            for the highest office within the gift of free men. Let nothing prevent you attending the
                            polls. Let every one of you come and bring his neighbor. Lull not yourselves in the lap of
                            security. The enemy are strong and powerful, but by united effort they can be beaten. They
                            are backed by the power and patronage of the government, but we by the immutable justice of
                            our cause. Let nothing discourage you. By union and concentration the battle can be won. Our
                            numbers are sufficient but we have none to spare.
                        Indianians, the third day of next November will be the only opportunity you will ever have to
                            vote for Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            . Then why not make use of it? Arouse from your sleep of security. The enemy are
                            at hand flushed with the spoils of a former triumph. Arise, return the honor of your
                            country. Let it not hereafter be said that republics are ungrateful.
                    
            
            This passionate appeal closed the campaign.
            The election returns showed that 
                        Jackson
                     carried the State by 5,309.92 The Western Sun and
                        General Advertiser rejoiced that a "backwoodsman" had been elected and
                    insisted that it was a contest between Aristocracy and Democracy.94 In fact, it
                    was as nearly so as the contest between Jefferson and the elder Adams, had been, for very nearly the
                    same states that voted for Jefferson voted for 
                        Jackson
                    , and those that voted for the first Adams also voted for his son. As a last admonition
                    the Western Sun and General Advertiser said: 
                        As the presidential election may be considered as ended, we advise the "hot
                            tongued" of both parties "to keep cool" and to judge the tree by
                            its fruits. Let no man now condemn General 
                                Jackson
                             in anticipation of imaginary evils. Much, too much, of the vilest abuse has
                            been illiberally showered on both the candidates for the presidency.95
                  
                    
            
            The rejoicing over victory was not in proportion to the anger over defeat at the past election. The
                    responsibility of office was a new burden that they had not considered, and the perplexity of the
                    situation outweighed the rejoicing over victory. (To be continued.)
            
               
                  92
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, Dec. 6, 1828.
               
                  94 Dec. 27, 1828.
               
                  95 Nov. 29, 1828.
            
         
         
         
            Joseph Baldwin
            PIONEER
                    OF
                    THE NORMAL-SCHOOL IDEA
                    IN INDIANA
                    AND FATHER
                    OF
                    THE MISSOURI NORMAL SCHOOL SYSTEM
            
            By J. B. VAN BUSKIRK, 
                        Monticello
                    
            
            At Burnettsville in White county, Indiana, stands an old building now occupied as a dwelling, which
                    according to local tradition was the home of the first normal school in Indiana. It was conducted by
                    Joseph Baldwin, who came from Pennsylvania and opened a normal school at Burnettsville in 1857 at
                    the solicitation of his brother-in-law, Elder William Griggsby, then pastor of the Christian church
                    at Burnettsville. This little village, known in early years as Farmington, had long shown an
                    ambition to become an educational center, and five years before Mr. Baldwin's arrival a
                    stock company had been formed which resulted in the erection of the building above mentioned, to be
                    used strictly for school purposes. The school was called the Farmington Seminary, and the first
                    teacher was Isaac Mahurin, the organizer of the stock company and founder of the school. He was a
                    Methodist and a graduate of an eastern college. He only remained two years and was succeeded by an
                    Associate Presbyterian named Hugh Knickerbocker, who continued the school three years longer. Up to
                    that time the school had been known in common parlance sometimes as the Seminary and sometimes as
                    the academy, meaning in the popular mind a place where more than one teacher was employed and where
                    something higher than the Three R's was taught. Tradition says that though the community
                    was proud of its distinction as a center of higher learning there was a division of sentiment when
                    physiology was introduced as one of the branches of study, some of the fastidious considering it an
                    innovation bordering on the vulgar. But with literary societies, singing schools and writing schools
                    as evening accessories the public mind was so diverted that even the study of man's
                    internal economy ceased to cause rancor.
            At the end of the Knickerbocker regime the time seemed opportune for Joseph Baldwin to enter the
                    field with his ideas  of teacher training, and he came. He was an
                    enthusiast on the subject of normal schools and had the energy, judgment and fluency of speech to
                    give effect to his enthusiasm. He got at once in touch with the public by canvassing the country for
                    miles around, sowing circulars and posters broadcast and making public addresses on the subject
                    uppermost in his mind. As a result his school opened with a surprisingly large enrollment. It soon
                    overtaxed the capacity of the Seminary, and the Christian church near by was used to accommodate the
                    overflow. Among the students of this school was William H. Calkins of LaPorte, later representative
                    in congress from the Tenth district of Indiana, and a number of other young men who afterward
                    reached distinction either professionally or politically. On account of the success of this school,
                    Burnettsville, once nicknamed by scoffers "Git-away," came to be spoken of as
                    "the 
                        Athens
                     of White county," and it deserved the name. White county bestowed upon the
                    head of its school the highest honor within her gift for men of erudition—the office of
                    school examiner, and he held it as long as he remained in the county.
            While in the high tide of his success at Burnettsville he sought a larger field and in 1859 removed
                    to 
                        Kokomo
                    . There he founded a normal school which continued to operate for some years after he
                    had severed his connection with it. He also opened a similar school at 
                        Logansport
                     and while there he was much in demand as a lecturer at teachers' institutes in
                    other counties. Here in 1867 his Indiana career closed. In that year he went to Missouri and was
                    lost to Hoosier view and in a few years practically to Hoosier thought. But to him the closing of
                    Indiana's gates behind him opened the pathway to enduring fame, and his subsequent career,
                    if no other part of his life, entitles him to the space here allotted to him. To his Missouri
                    biographer, Prof. E. M. Violette, we are indebted for a rich store of material, from which much that
                    follows has beeen compiled.
            Joseph Baldwin was born at 
                  Newcastle, Pennsylvania
               , and was educated at Bethany
                    college, 
                        Virginia
                    , where he sat under the personal instruction of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , the founder of the Disciples' church, who was then in his prime. In 1850 he
                    was married to Miss Ella Sophronia Fluhart of 
                        Ohio
                    , and  went immediately to 
                        Missouri
                    , where he opened an academy at Platte City. The next year he and his wife went to
                    Savannah, that state, where for three years they were engaged jointly in the management of a young
                    ladies' boarding school. Even at that time he had taken high rank among the teachers of the
                    state, for at a meeting of the State Teachers' association held at 
                        St. Louis
                     he was elected one of its vice-presidents. Among the distinguished educators present at
                    that session was the great Horace Mann, from whom he drew much helpful and stimulating inspiration.
                    After four years' residence in Missouri he returned to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where he attended the Lawrence County Normal school and also taught for a time in the
                    Millersville Normal school. His mind was evidently imbued with the thought of teacher training,
                    though the normal-school idea at that time had barely obtained a foothold in this country and normal
                    schools were limited to the far eastern states.
            Arriving at Burnettsville in 1857, he was given his first opportunity to put into effect his idea of
                    a training school for teachers. The success of his school has already been narrated. During his
                    residence at 
                        Kokomo
                     his teaching activities were suspended for a brief period of service in the Union army,
                    and on his return he opened a school at 
                        Logansport
                     which continued until he entered upon his work in Missouri in 1867.
            It so happened that the same Elder Griggsby who had persuaded him to come to Burnettsville was then a
                    resident of Kirksville and had been urging him ever since 1860 to come to 
                        Missouri
                    . He finally yielded to his brother-in-law's persuasions on learning that a
                    school at Kirksville known as the 
                        Cumberland
                     academy had been abandoned by the Presbyterians and the academy building was seeking an
                    occupant. After looking over the field he leased the building and opened a private school known as
                    the North Missouri Normal school. He at once began a publicity campaign similar in method to the one
                    he had conducted in connection with the Burnettsville school, except that his keynote from the first
                    was state supervision of teacher training. After three and a half years of this kind of propaganda,
                    including much intercession with legislatures, he had the satisfaction of seeing a state normal
                    school system adopted and the school at Kirksville taken over  as
                    part of the system. The achievement was so notable and Professor Baldwin's leadership in
                    the movement so generally acknowledged that he afterward became known as "the father of the
                    Missouri normal school system."
            Professor Baldwin's first step after deciding to locate at Kirksville was the selection of a
                    faculty for his school, and incidentally this proceeding introduces into this narrative several
                    other White county people. His staff of teachers consisted of himself and five associates, two of
                    whom, Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Ferris, had been White county teachers. They had taught schools at
                    Idaville, Burnettsville and 
                        Logansport
                    , and Professor Baldwin, having personally observed their work, had conditionally
                    engaged their services before leaving Indiana. Professor Ferris was assigned to the principalship of
                    the model school established in connection with the normal, while his wife was employed as teacher
                    of the intermediate department. Professor Ferris also assisted Professor Baldwin during the summer
                    of 1867 in his canvass of northern Missouri in the interests of the new normal school. After three
                    years he severed his connection with the normal and became principal of the Kirksville public
                    schools. Later he went west on account of failing health and died at 
                        Denver
                    , November 18, 1873. He was an ordained minister of the Universalist church but never
                    held a pastorate. Through the influence of Professor Ferris two other young men of this vicinity
                    were drawn to Kirksville and became students of the Baldwin institution. These were B. F. Heiny, who
                    later became cashier of the National bank of Kirksville, and H. C. Langley, who became a minister in 
                        California
                    .
            The first year of the new school, though full of promise, yielded no financial profit to the
                    hard-working president. In fact it fell $315 short of paying expenses. But the second
                    year showed a gratifying gain in attendance and after paying all expenses left $1,185 in
                    the president's pocket. From that time on the school was no longer an experiment but on the
                    contrary such a marked success as to make all 
                        Missouri
                     "sit up and take notice."
            The law finally enacted provided for two normal school districts with a school in each, and then
                    began a contest for the location of the schools. Largely through Professor Bald-  win's efforts in arousing the people of Adair county to the
                    point of a bond issue of $100,000, Kirksville was finally selected as the site, the
                    Baldwin school as the nucleus, and Joseph Baldwin as the principal of the First District Normal
                    school. Work was begun on a new building, and on February 13, 1873, it was dedicated with impressive
                    ceremonies and great rejoicing. For eleven pears Professor Baldwin continued at the head of this
                    state institution of his own creation, and then, yielding to the pioneer instinct which seemed to
                    have been born in him, he accepted the presidency of the Sam 
                        Houston
                     Normal institute at 
                  Huntsville, Texas
               . This school had been established only two
                    years before and was then the only state normal school in 
                        Texas
                    . After holding this position ten years he was elected to the chair of pedagogy in the
                    University of 
                        Texas
                    , and at the close of his active work there in 1897 he was made professor emeritus of
                    pedagogy in that institution. His death occurred January 13, 1899, at Austin, 
                        Texas
                    , in the 72nd year of his age.
            Professor Baldwin was a man of wonderful energy and diligence. Besides his work in the school room he
                    found time to answer many calls as a public speaker on educational and religious topics. He was an
                    elder in the Christian church and occasionally officiated as a minister. He was also in demand as a
                    writer, making frequent contributions to educational journals and at one time being assistant editor
                    of the American School Journal. He was the author of two books, one on School Management and one on Elementary Psychology. Both had a
                    wide reading in this country, and both were adopted by the government of 
                        Canada
                     for the schools of that country. His School Management was translated
                    into Spanish for use in 
                        Mexico
                     and South America.
            The high regard in which he was held at Kirksville was shown not only during his active work there
                    but for many years afterward. Twelve years after he had severed his connection with the school and
                    gone to Texas a special day was set apart during the commencement week to be observed as Baldwin
                    Day. He was the guest of honor on that occasion, and no other day in the history of the institution
                    ever brought such a large attendance of former students, many of them distinguished men, as that
                    memorable day in June, 1893. Upon  his death five years later
                    memorial exercises were held at the normal school, and an entire evening was devoted to honoring his
                    memory as the founder of the school and of the normal school system of the state.
            Indiana may well consider it an honor to have been the nursery of Joseph Baldwin's
                    aspirations and the laboratory of his first experiments.
         
         
         
            The Family History of Robert Owen
            By ARTHUR H. ESTABROOK
            
            Eugenics Record Office, Carnegie Institution of 
                        Washington
                    
            
            This is a day of great achievements and momentous jumps in science, engineering and agriculture; even
                    in war. Recently new weapons of slaughter, poisonous gas, aerial bombs, guns with a range of fifty
                    miles and other inventions and developments in every field of human activity have become matters of
                    every-day occurrence. One day the world acknowledges the genius who accomplishes these things, the
                    next he is forgotten or overshadowed in the presence of so many other persons of marked ability. We
                    have become accustomed to new methods of thought and procedure and new systems of government.
            A hundred years ago a man with a vision and a message stood out with striking prominence. Such a man
                    was Robert Owen who lived for an ideal and whose ruling passion was, in the words of his son, Robert
                    Dale Owen, "the love of his kind, individually and collectively." Robert Owen at
                    thirty-five had made almost a million dollars as a manufacturer; he then retired from business and
                    devoted the remainder of his life to the betterment of the working man, to the formation of
                    cooperative societies, the carrying out of a community experiment, to agitation for the enactment of
                    laws prohibiting child labor, for factory inspection laws, and for a better and fuller education of
                    the children in the schools; this all as long ago as the period of 1800.
            Robert Owen was born of humble parentage at Newtown, Montgomeryshire, 
                        Wales
                    , May 14, 1771. His schooling was limited, for at the age of ten years he went to 
                        London
                     to work as an apprentice to a Stamford draper. He worked in the draper shops until the
                    age of eighteen and during this time was a student of books and a great reader. He then went into a
                    partnership with a wire-worker named Jones making new machinery, just then invented, for spinning
                    cotton. He soon left Jones and went into business for himself. He prospered, and shortly became the
                    superintendent of a 
                        Manchester
                     cotton  mill. Here he came intimately in contact
                    with the debased conditions of the working man, a thing which he had seen and noticed previously. He
                    viewed with fear the frequent riots which showed the discontent in the factory towns. He saw
                    children swallowed up at an early age in the industrial whirl, so young that they had no opportunity
                    for schooling.
            Being eminently successful as a cotton mill superintendent, on January 1, 1800, he assumed control of
                    the New Lanark (
                        Scotland
                    ) cotton mills, which belonged to his father-in-law, David Dale. The latter had been a
                    most considerate mill owner and yet Owen found the same miserable industrial and home conditions in
                    New Lanark. Owen established free schools for the children, reduced the hours of labor, and improved
                    the conditions of the factory people by the teaching of cleanly habits. He established stores where
                    the people could buy at a slightly higher price than the mere cost of the goods and soon the people
                    of New Lanark showed the effects of these changed conditions in better efficiency in the factories.
                    The place soon had an international reputation and visitors came from all over the world to study
                    Owen's methods and results. Thus Owen's mills prospered, and at one time, when all
                    other mills were closed for lack of cotton, Owen continued to pay wages to his employees, a thing
                    previously unheard of. Even though Owen's mills were eminently successful financially, his
                    partners did not like his methods of dealing with the working Classes and many also accused him of
                    heresy in his moral and religious teachings. He was finally forced out of the New Lanark mills, and
                    sold his share in them for $800,000, but the working people in the town had become a
                    prosperous and contented people because of the better conditions under which they lived and worked.
            From then on Robert Owen devoted all his time to his public activities and he and his followers
                    became more active and. more insistent for the recognition of the rights of the workers. He
                    constantly labored for laws protecting childhood in industry and for free education of all children
                    in 
                        England
                    . He secured the enactment of laws with the assistance of Sir Robert Peel for the
                    protection of child labor and these laws are the first on the statute books in the history of
                    nations providing for the interference of the government in local business  affairs. Owen wished to put his communistic theories into practice,
                    and, upon hearing of the desire of the Rappites in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, in the 
                        United States
                    , to sell out, he entered into negotiations with them with the result that he bought the
                    "Harmonie" community for less than $150,000, using part of his own
                    fortune for this purpose. Here he planned to experiment with his "new moral world"
                    where an industrial democracy was to be the keynote and the highest type of education was to be
                    given to all at no cost other than to the community at large.
            The existing community at 
                        New Harmony
                     had a religious bond as a basis for its existence and was founded by George Rapp, a
                    vine-dresser and farmer of plebian descent, but a man of unusual strength of character who, in 1803,
                    had brought a group of Würtemburg peasants from 
                        Germany
                     to 
                        Butler county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , that they might worship in their own way, free from the religious domination present
                    at that time in 
                        Germany
                    . Here they had the "community of equality," with all work done in
                    common, the funds and leadership being in the hands of George Rapp, who was also their religious
                    leader. This has been spoken of as a religious autocracy. The location in Pennsylvania was deemed
                    unfit after a time because of the distance from waterways where they might ship their products,
                    hence the community moved en masse to the east bank of the Wabash river in
                    Indiana about 20 miles north of its confluence with the Ohio river. This was in
                    1815. Here they proceeded to clear and till the very fertile land and built a new town calling it
                    Harmonie. Nearly a thousand of the followers of George Rapp lived here and it was therefore the
                    largest town in the territory of Indiana [?]. Thirty thousand acres of land were held in common. The
                    farming equipment and other utensils were brought from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Houses, both log and frame, were soon erected. Later brick houses were built, the
                    frame and the brick houses being constructed on the same design, and of equal size, because the
                    Rappites, as they were called, believed in the equality of every one. School houses were built, and
                    a large church. There were no gravestones or other markers in the Rappite graveyard, indicating that
                    even in death there was no difference, and today the moundless surface of the Rappite cemetery in 
                        New Harmony
                    
                     bears silent witness to this fact. The funerals took place with
                    only the elders as witnesses and nothing was left on the spot to indicate the burial place of any
                    one, though a plat was kept indicating the location of each grave.
            The Rappites worked hard, and, the land being very fertile, they prospered, shipping the products of
                    the community to points along the Mississippi river. They had comfortable homes
                    and plenty in a land that was then almost a wilderness. George Rapp then decided to sell the
                    property, giving as a reason the malarious condition of the country, the unpleasant weather and also
                    the isolation and remoteness from the business centers of the 
                        United States
                    . It is probable that Father Rapp, as he was called, felt that his hold over the people
                    would lessen if the life in Harmonie became too easy because of plenty. The community had been
                    built, the farms and industries were prosperous and the need of the intense hard work had decreased,
                    hence he decided to move to a new location where the pioneer trials and hard work incident to a new
                    location would again firmly place the Harmonists under his leadership and generalship. Hence Robert
                    Owen was welcomed as a purchaser when he wished to buy Harmonie for the place of his community
                    experiment. The Rappites then left in a body for a new site on the Ohio river
                    just below 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and where they located Economy, where they remained.
            Robert Owen came to America bringing part of his family with him. He delivered addresses in February
                    and March, 1825, in the hall of the house of representatives at 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., before two of the most distinguished audiences ever gathered in 
                        Washington
                    , which comprised the entire membership of both houses of congress, the judges of the
                    supreme court, the President and his cabinet and many distinguished citizens. He explained his
                    "new moral world," his plan for the improvement of the human race, and his
                    immediate project at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and stated that he desired volunteers for the new community explaining that
                    there was to be industrial equality and the best educational opportunities for all, especially the
                    children. He spoke in many other places in the 
                        United States
                     spreading his invitation broadcast. People of all kinds came to Harmonie to join his
                    community. There were cranks and agitators and  reformers of
                    every kind, some who thought it a place to live without working and others who came with a sincere
                    and serious desire to be working members of the colony and carry out the plan of the leader. On
                    April 27, 1825, Robert Owen addressed the membership of the new community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , for such was the new name, in the big church hall and outlined his plan for the
                    "new moral world" and the "Preliminary Society" was established.
                    At this time he said: 
                        I am come to this country to introduce an entirely new state of society; to change it from an
                            ignorant, selfish system to an enlightened social system which shall gradually unite all
                            interests in one, and remove all causes for contrast between individuals.
                    
            
            Such was the origin of the community. Farming and the dairy pursuits began; manufacturing and the
                    trades started up with Owen acting as a business manager for the time being; this management later
                    to be put in the hands of the communists. Owen had interested a William Maclure of 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the community, who wished to put into practice his educational theories. Maclure was
                    a wealthy scientist interested in education and political economy and was likewise philanthropic. He
                    had been the principal founder of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of natural sciences and had made several geological studies of large parts of
                    the 
                        United States
                    . He had tried out an educational scheme in 
                        Spain
                     which had failed, hence he ardently entered into Owen's plans and took charge
                    of the educational side of the experiment. His plan was to make 
                        New Harmony
                     the center of education in the 
                        United States
                     through the introduction of the Pestalozzian system of teaching. For this purpose he
                    gathered at 
                        New Harmony
                     the most distinguished group of scientists and educators in America, among these being
                    Thomas Say, the zoologist, Charles Alexander Leseur, Constantine Samuel Raffinesque, Dr. Gerard
                    Troost, John Chappelsmith, an artist and engraver, Professor Joseph Neef, Madame Marie Fretageot and
                    Phiquepal d'Arusmont. Frances Wright, the enthusiastic advocate of "New
                    Principles," woman's suffrage and abolition lived for some years in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The four sons and one of Robert Owen's daughters also lived in 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            
            Then Robert Owen returned to 
                        England
                     to proceed with his work there, and the community was left in the charge of his son
                    Robert Dale Owen. There were, however, too many differing temperaments in the community and finally
                    petty bickerings and jealousies on the part of some of the members became so great that the spirit
                    of the place was lost, and the community gradually ceased to function as such and on March 28. 1827,
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, the official organ of the administration, in an editorial written by
                    Robert Dale and William Owen, acknowledged the defeat of the experiment, so far as 
                        New Harmony
                     was concerned but still held that the principle was correct.
            Robert Owen came to 
                        New Harmony
                     at the time of the dissolution of the community, but immediately returned to 
                        England
                     and for the rest of his life carried on propaganda for the principles of industrial
                    equality, free education of the young, and decent and respectable living conditions for the workers
                    in factory towns. He lectured all over Europe on socialism and his "new moral
                    world," taking part in co-operative congresses for many years. He also published a weekly
                    journal on these subjects. He became more radical as he grew older and his real influence then began
                    to decline. In 1854 he was converted to spiritualism by a medium from America, and published several
                    works on this subject.
            Owen was essentially a man with one idea, that of bettermen of the working man. The fact that he
                    himself had been a successful factory operator and owner compelled many to consider him and his
                    theories seriously. His factory had been wonderfully successful financially and the town of New
                    Lanark had a happy and prosperous people. Here careful attention was given to Owen's
                    theories because here they had worked. The practical success of New Lanark had enabled Owen to take
                    a definite stand and had assisted him in his preachings for social and industrial and educational
                    equality.
            Personally he was most amiable—his ruling passion was benevolence; he was exceedingly fond
                    of children, spent a fortune to promote the welfare of his race, had a command of temper which
                    enabled him to conciliate opponents and was obstinate without being irritable.
            
            Owen's geniality, altruism, love of mankind, sweetness of temper and gentle disposition and
                    charm of manner were his outstanding temperamental traits. These different traits have appeared in
                    his descendants, some here and some there. They will be noted as they appear in the description of
                    the family which follows. The Owen charm and graciousness of manner is known to all who are
                    acquainted with the family of today. He died in 1857.1
            
            Such was Robert Owen, the genius, the most of whose life had been spent in 
                        England
                     and 
                        Scotland
                    , although he died in 
                        Wales
                    . Robert Owen's children were reared in 
                        Scotland
                    , educated in Europe, but spent the greater part of their lives in the 
                        United States
                     and the fact that three of his sons became very prominent in the development of this
                    country makes the Owen family one of interest to students of genealogy, biography, eugenics and
                    heredity. These three sons were Robert Dale Owen, the statesman, David Dale Owen, the geologist, and
                    Richard Dale Owen, the soldier and teacher of science. Hence the study of the Owen blood is of
                    interest and value. Robert Owen has been called "socialist," "a
                    reformer," "practical idealist," "philanthropist," etc.
                    Robert Owen, as has been seen, was born in 
                        Wales
                    ; his father before him was Robert Owen, also born in 
                        Wales
                    . The father was a saddler and ironmonger, a postmaster as long as he lived and general
                    manager of the parish affairs. His wife was "one of the Williams, who were among the most
                    respectable farmers of Newtown." "My mother," writes Robert,
                    "was for her class, superior in mind and manner." Nothing else is known of the
                    Owen side.
            Robert Owen married Ann Caroline Dale, the daughter of David Dale, the cotton mill owner of 
                        Glasgow
                    . She was a descendant from a long line of the peers of 
                        England
                     and 
                        Scotland
                    , her maternal great-great-grandfather, John 
                        Campbell
                    , 
                  
                     1 List of Robert Owen's most prominent writings: New Views of Society, in Four Essays, on the Formation of Human Character, 
                                    London
                                
                     , 1813; Observations on the Effects of the Manufacturing
                                System, 
                                London
                            , 1815; Two Memorials on Behalf of the Working Classes, 1818;
                                The Debate on the Evidences of Christianity, the Social System, and
                                Sceptivism, Bethany, 1829; Book of the New Moral World, 
                                London
                            , 1836; The Revolution in the Mind and Practice of the Human
                            Race, 
                                London
                            , 1849; The Life of Robert Owen, written by Himself, 
                                London
                            , 1857-8.
                  
                     2
                            Threading My Way, by Robert Dale Owen, G. W. Carlton and CO., 
                                New York
                            , 1874.
               
                     being the first Earl of Breadalbane, and another maternal
                    ancestor the first Marquis of Argyll. Many other ancestors of Ann Dale were prominent in the history
                    of 
                        Scotland
                    . The following is quoted from Threading My Way, by Robert Dale Owen:
                        
                        David Dale, born Ayrshire, 1738, under humble circumstances; educated in public schools,
                            journeyman weaver, even then expended a portion of his scanty wages in relieving his poorer
                            neighbors. With the steady perseverance of his country he gradually won his way to riches
                            and position; so that at middle age he was already a wealthy merchant and bank director. The
                            marriage with Ann 
                                Campbell
                             was a most harmonious union though brief. She died when her eldest child was
                            about twelve years old; and upon that child devolved the care of a widowed father and
                            younger sister; a charge the duties of which she fulfilled with a devotion and prudence
                            beyond her years. David Dale had become a mill owner. He first paid attention to the health
                            and morals of his people, trained them up in habits of industry and instructed them in the
                            necessary branches of education. Four hundred children were entirely fed, clothed and
                            instructed at the expense of Dale. He was very religious, being an
                            "independent," an order of Presbyterians, this sect having as its tenet
                            that a "laborer is worthy of his hire."
                    
            
            Dale was a man of abundant geniality; he was very tolerant and lacking in harshness toward offenders.
                    Robert Owen in Threading My Way, says of his father-in-law: 
                        Mr. Dale was one of the most liberal, conscientious, benevolent, kind-hearted men I ever met
                            in my life; one universally respected for his simplicity and straightforward honesty of
                            character. From my marriage, until his death he and I never exchanged one unpleasant
                            expression or unkind word. Yet our religious opinions were quite different and we distinctly
                            knew the difference. He had a sense of the ludicrous and keenly enjoyed a joke, even at his
                            own expense. He died in 1806.
                    
            
            The daughter of Archibald 
                        Campbell
                    , the first Marquis of Argyll, married John 
                        Campbell
                    , the first Earl of Breadalbane, and so the ancestors of their child, the Hon. Colin 
                        Campbell
                     of Ardmaddie, were Robert, James I, Joan Beaufort, the daughter of John of Gaunt, all
                    the English Kings back of Edward III and all the French Kings back of Philip le bel. Miss Ellinor
                    Davidson of 
                        San Francisco
                     has worked out the genealogical tree of the Campbells and has it now in her possession.
            
            This John 
                        Campbell
                    , of Glenorchy, born 1635, and created first Earl of Breadalbane in 1681, was (according
                    to Nisbet)3 a man of sagacity, judgment and penetration. He served in Parliament
                    for the shire of Argyll and was privy councillor under James II. 
                        He has the gravity of a Spaniard, is as cunning as a fox, wise as a serpent and slippery as
                            an eel.
                    
            
            He died in 1716. He married Mary 
                        Campbell
                    , daughter of Archibald, the first Marquis of Argyll, then widow of George, Earl of
                    Caithness, and had one child, Colin.
            The Honorable Colin 
                        Campbell
                    , of Ardmaddie, fell desperately in love with a Miss Fisher, the handsome daughter of a
                    respectable farmer living on his father's estates and married her according to the Scottish
                    law, legally. His parents refused to recognize the bride, hence he left his native country and
                    resided with her when off duty from the army, at a French seaport. He continued to live with his
                    wife until his death at the early age of 29, in 1708. He left one child only, named after the
                    grandfather who ignored its existence. At a later period the widow and her son brought suit to
                    procure the acknowledgment of the marriage and the recovery of her husband's property.
                    Although they received what was equivalent to $300,000, the boy was never given his place
                    in the peerage. This boy, John 
                        Campbell
                    , did well in the world. He married Lady Sterling of Glorit and when she died without
                    issue, contracted a second marriage with Miss 
                        Campbell
                     of Tofts, by whom he had five children. One of these was General Colin 
                        Campbell
                    , afterwards lieutenant governor of 
                        Gibraltar
                    , and another was the Ann Caroline 
                        Campbell
                     who married David Dale. Ann was noted through 
                        Scotland
                     as one of the most beautiful women of her day.
            This brief picture of part of the ancestry of Ann Caroline Dale who married Robert Owen shows
                    something of the traits present in the 
                        Campbell
                     germ plasm. That germ plasm has produced some of the prominent figures in 
                        Scotland
                    . In David Dale was the business ability, philanthropic sense and geniality and poise as
                    mentioned above. There were three daughters born to David and Ann; Ann Caroline, married Robert
                        
                  
                     3 Nesbit, Alexander, 1657-1725, heraldic writer of Edinburgh.
               
                     came to America and little is known on this side of the Atlantic
                    concerning their traits.
            The traits of benevolence and altruism and geniality and marked business ability are found on both
                    sides of this Owen-
                        Campbell
                     house and the study of the Owen family really begins at this point. Robert Owen and Ann
                    Dale had eight children, the first one dying in infancy, five came to the 
                        United States
                     and lived, while the two remaining, Anne Caroline and Margaret, lived all their lives
                    in 
                        Scotland
                     and never married. Nothing is known of the traits of these two. The five who came to
                    the 
                        United States
                     were Robert Dale, William, Jane Dale, David Dale and Richard. These will be taken up in
                    order.
            ROBERT DALE OWEN AND HIS DESCENDANTS
            
            Robert Dale Owen was born in 
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , November 7,1801. At the age of sixteen he was sent
                    to Fellenberg's school at Hofwyl, 
                        Switzerland
                    , where he became an enthusiastic believer in the Pestalozzian creed and methods of
                    education. When he returned to 
                        Scotland
                     he entered with hearty and intelligent sympathy into his father's social and
                    educational experiment at New Lanark. Robert Dale came to the 
                        United States
                     with his father at the beginning of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment in 1825. Although he made several visits to Europe later, the 
                        United States
                     remained his home through the rest of his life. Robert Dale, then 24 years old, was
                    left in charge of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment when his father returned to Europe after organizing the community. He
                    represented his father in this work and showed much ability in the management of affairs and the
                    promulgation of his theories. He and Frances Wright4 furnished many articles for
                        
                  
                     4 Frances Wright, or Frances D'Arusmont, philanthropist and
                            agitator, born at Dundee, 6 Sept., 1795, was an orphan at the age of two and a half years.
                            Her father, apparently possessed of independent means, was a man of considerable
                            accomplishments and strong liberal feeling. Frances and her younger sister were brought up
                            by a maternal aunt. She studied in the library of the University of 
                                Glasgow
                             and at the age of twenty-three sailed to America where she spent two years. Her
                            letters home were collected and published in 1821, under the title of Views of
                                Society and Manners in America. While in America she produced a tragedy, Altorf, which was acted in 
                                New York
                             on 19 Feb., 1819, and published in Phlladelphia From 1821 to 1824 Frances
                            Wright lived in 
                                Paris
                            
                  
               
                     the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, a weekly paper, the official organ of the community, concerning the
                    progress of the project, its ideals and its philosophy and also many general information articles on
                    science and other subjects for the education of the members of the community.
            After the collapse of the community in 1827, he continued to make 
                        New Harmony
                     his home as did many other of the teachers and leaders of that movement. On April 12,
                    1832, he married Mary J. Robinson in 
                        New York City
                     with a contract marriage entered into before a justice of the peace in that city. Owen
                    continued to write and he and Frances Wright edited the Free Enquirer which was
                    published in 
                        New York
                     and was the continuation of the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, after the community had ceased to exist. This paper continued as a
                    liberal newspaper and, among other things, advocated the entrance of the workingman into politics.
                    In 1836, Owen entered Indiana politics as a member of the state legislature. At that time, as later
                    when he was lecturing about the country and when he entered into a written debate with Horace
                    Greeley of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune advocating greater freedom in divorce, his speeches were models of logic
                    and free from abuse.5 In 1842 he was elected to the house of representatives at 
                        Washington
                    , returned in 1844 but defeated in 1846. While a member of congress he originated and
                    carried through to final passage a bill providing for the application of the neglected Smithson
                    bequest to the institution and was a member of the first board of regents of the Smithsonian
                    Institution. It is said that Robert and his brother, David Dale Owen, then 
                        United States
                     geologist, planned the architecture of the institution buildings in 
                        Washington
                    .
            
               where she enjoyed the friendship of 
                            Lafayette
                         and many of the French liberal leaders. In 1824 she returned to the 
                            United States
                         and took up her residence at 
                            New Harmony
                        . She purchased a tract of land at 
                     Nashoba, Tennessee
                  , near 
                            Memphis
                        , and settled negro slaves on it with the hope that they would work out their
                        liberty. This experiment, sponsored by the 
                            New Harmony
                         people, failed. In 1829 she delivered a course of lectures in the chief cities of
                        the 
                            United States
                        , pointing out the degree in which the 
                            United States
                        , notwithstanding their free constitution, had hitherto disappointed the hopes of
                        advanced reformers, and excited great opposition by the freedom of her attacks on religion. From
                        1833 to 1836 she delivered numerous courses of lectures on social questions, especially slavery
                        and female suffrage, of which latter she was one of the first advocates. She married in 1838, M.
                        Phiquepal D'Arusmont, which later resulted in a separation. She died at Cincinnatt, 
                            Ohio
                        , December 2, 1852.
               
                  5 See Horace Greeley, Recollections of a Busy Life, 
                            New York
                        , 1868.
            
            
            It was as a member of the Indiana constitutional convention in 1850 that he entered upon the period
                    of his greatest usefulness. John H. Holliday, the Indiana historian, says that Robert Dale Owen was
                    the most laborious and efficient member of that body, and that the law reforms, the provisions for
                    women's rights, and especially the free schools, were his work. Here he embodied into
                    actual practice and basic law the teachings and theories which his father and William Maclure had
                    worked our practically in 
                        New Harmony
                     thirty years previously. The constitution of 1850 and the school law of 1852 of Indiana
                    are the handiworks of Robert Owen and William Maclure living after them [??].
            In 1853 Owen was appointed chargé d'affaires at 
                        Naples
                     for the 
                        United States
                     and he remained at this post for six years. During this period he became an advocate of
                    spiritualism and wrote two books on the subject. His father had become a devotee of spiritualism in 
                        England
                     a few years previous to this. During the Civil war Robert Dale Owen gave his time and
                    energy to the support of the Union and of 
                        Lincoln
                    , and especially the latter's plans for the emancipation of the slaves. In
                    September, 1862, when the decision about emancipation of the slaves hung in the balance, he wrote to 
                        Lincoln
                     approving the step and this letter has been described as "an ever enduring
                    monument of dispassionate, well-reasoned, perfectly-poised deductions, at a very critical time in
                    the life of a great nation." "Its perusal thrilled me like a trumpet
                    call," said 
                        Lincoln
                    . Owen was appointed secretary of the Freed-man's Bureau near the close of the
                    war and acted as its executive for a time. He opposed then the giving of the franchise to the
                    negroes for a time until they had been trained to accept the duties of citizenship.
            For a period before his death "his mind was deranged by overwork—deranged but not
                    obscured—for during several months' residence in the hospital for the insane at 
                        Indianapolis
                     his mental powers were incessantly active and brilliant though touched by grotesque
                    shapes." He regained his mental soundness but did not live long after that, dying at the
                    age of 76.
            
            John H. Holliday6 says of him: 
                        In scholarship, general attainments, as author, statesman, politician, as leader of a new
                            religious faith, he was unquestionably the most prominent man Indiana ever owned.
                    
            
            Robert D. Owen was very kind and gentle in disposition and very "sweet and patient"
                    in all his activities. He had all the gentle traits of the father but a clearer sense of the
                    proportion of things and the relations of people to each other and the methods of dealing with
                    people in matters of policy and politics. He had little money sense and could not hold property. His
                    father had given him the disposal of his share of the 
                        New Harmony
                     property at its breaking up and in consequence Robert was never obliged to be bothered
                    with the necessary details of earning a living which would have been a bore to him. He is remembered
                    by all especially for his kindliness of manner and sweet disposition.
            When writing7 and studying he was a hard worker and absorbed completely in his
                    work, with all his mind and body concentrated on the one thing; if disturbed, most polite for a time
                    but still absorbed. This characteristic of absorption in work was characteristie of all four sons of
                    Robert Owen. Robert Dale Owen was never irritable or irascible and showed no excesses of any kind.
                    He was very domestic in his home. He stands out as the statesman of the family.
            Robert Dale Owen's wife, Mary Jane Robinson, was born in 1813 in 
                        Virginia
                    . One brother of hers, Henry, of 
                        Virginia
                    , lacked certain inhibitions. Her niece, Miss Ella Dietz, was prominent in 
                        New York City
                     women's clubs and was one of the first members of the Sorosis club of 
                        New York
                    . Mary was a "fine, strong, gentle, just, motherly woman," who acted
                    as 
                  
                     6
                            An Indiana Village, 
                                    New Harmony
                                , by John H. Holliday.
                  
                     7 Robert Dale Owen's most prominent writings were: Outlines of the System of Educatbn at New Lanark, 
                                Glasgow
                            , 1824; Moral Psysiology, 
                                New York
                            , 1831. (This is a treatise on birth control, AHE) Popular Tracts, 1831; Discussion with Origin Bachelor on the Personality of God and the Authority of
                                the Bible, 1832; Pocahontas, a drama, 1837: Hints on
                                Public Architecture, 1849; A Treatise on the Construction of Plank
                                Roads, 1856; Footprints on the Boundary of Another World, 1860;
                                Beyond the Breakers, 1870; Debatable Land Between This
                                World and the Next, 1872; Threading My Way, 1874; The Wrong of Slavery, the Right of Emancipation and the Future of the African Race in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 1864; Divorce—being a correspondence between
                                Horace Greeley and Robert Dale Owen, in the 
                                    New York
                                 Daily Tribune, 1860.
               
                     a fine balance wheel for her husband. Robert Dale Owen took her
                    to 
                        New York City
                     just after marriage to finish her education. She became a great grammarian but had no
                    artistic or temperamental traits. For some time, when about fifty years old, she operated a school
                    for twelve girls, all about the age of ten years, in her home, now the Fauntleroy home in 
                        New Harmony
                    . All the teaching was oral, no books of any sort being used. She died August 12, 1871.
            Robert and Mary had six children, two dying in infancy. On the grave of one, Florence Dale Owen, who
                    died in July, 1834, aged about eight months, in the cemetery at 
                        New Harmony
                     is the following, written probably by Robert Dale Owen: 
                        Ephemera all die at sunset; and no insect: of this class ever sported in the rays of the
                            rising sun. Happier are ye, little Human ephemeral Ye play only in the ascending beams and
                            in the early dawn; and in the eastern life ye drink only the first sweet draughts of life;
                            hover for a little space over a world of freshness and blossoms; and then fall asleep in
                            innocence ere ever the morning dews are exhaled.
                    
            
            This shows the religious feeling and attitude of the Owens of that period. In the early days the
                    Owens were not spiritual. It has been said quite aptly that the Owens practiced the Christian
                    virtues without profession. In the last half century most of the Owens have become members of the
                    church.
            The children of Robert Dale Owen who reached maturity are Florence, Julian Dale, Ernest, and
                    Rosamond, the latter being the only one of these now alive. Florence, born 1836, 
                        New Harmony
                    , was taken to Europe with her brothers and sister and well educated. She was very
                    musical and took special training in that line. Soon after returning to 
                        New Harmony
                     she married James Cooper, a physician, now aged ninety and living in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, a capable man who has acquired some property. Florence was a
                    "typical Owen with a sweet, lovely disposition" and was considered a beautiful
                    woman. She died quite young on March 1, 1863, leaving one child, Robert Dale Cooper. He was born in
                    1857 and went to school until he reached the sixth grade and soon after that was placed to work on a
                    farm. He now owns a farm near 
                        New Harmony
                     which he is working and secures very fair returns for his industry. He married when
                    about the age of  forty-five, Martha Shepherd, from near 
                        New Harmony
                    , and has two children, Florence and Robert, one born 1914, the other 1915. These two
                    are bright and active mentally.
            Julian D. Owen, son of Robert Dale Owen, was born in 1837. He, too, was educated abroad but returned
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     and lived there the remainder of his life. He was a farmer and has been considered the
                    best business man of this generation of the Owens. He also acted as guardian, settled estates, and
                    did other business for many people about 
                        New Harmony
                     and was very successful. He was very fond of people and enjoyed mingling with them,
                    and, although very popular, he was not interested in social activities as such. During the Civil war
                    he rose to the rank of Colonel. His interest in people and desire to do for others was a typical
                    Owen trait but the other traits of the Owens were not so characteristic in this man. His first wife,
                    Mary Sampson, was killed in a steamboat accident on the Mississippi river
                    during the Civil was. His second was Helen M. Shepard. She was reputed to have been the adopted
                    daughter of a poor widow of 
                        New Harmony
                    . She was very beautiful physically. She bore two children, Grace and Margaret, to
                    Julian, and died at the age of twenty-seven. Nothing is known of her traits. Julian's third
                    wife was Annie Reed Cooper, by whom he has one child, Walter Dale. Julian survived his last wife,
                    dying in 1910 of paralysis.
            Grace Owen, Julian's oldest child and granddaughter of Robert Dale Owen, was born in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1866. She was large physically, handsome, brilliant, gifted musically,
                    intellectually and socially. She travelled quite extensively and spent some time at Haifa in the
                    Holy Land with her aunt Rosamond. She married at about the age of twenty-four and died in 1891, at
                    the birth of her first child. Grace Owen is spoken of as the most brilliant of that generation and
                    one resembling the earlier Owens. Her husband, Charles W. Zering, was a school teacher, later
                    studied law and was very successful in later life. He was very intellectual. Their one child, Grace
                    Zering, born 1891, was tossed here and there as a child after the death of her mother, staying part
                    of the time with her aunt Margaret, the actress. She has travelled much. She has good descriptive
                    powers and some literary ability in writing.  She has the
                    brilliancy of the mother. She married Lieut. Com. Ellis Stone of the 
                        United States
                     Navy, and has one child, Ellinor, born 1919. They reside at 
                  Long Beach, California
               .
            Margaret Owen, born 1870, full sister of Grace and granddaughter of Robert Dale Owen, was, as a young
                    girl, like the earlier Owens, gentle and kind, and still has the calm, equable disposition so
                    characteristic of the family. She, however, does not have the musical ability so often found. She
                    married William C. Clark, an actor, went on the stage with him in vaudeville and has travelled all
                    over the world. She now resides in 
                        California
                    .
            Walter Dale Owen, son of Julian and grandson of Robert Dale Owen, and half-brother of Grace and
                    Margaret, born 1877, graduated at 
                        Harvard
                     College and is now in the automobile business in 
                        Boston
                    . He has been married twice but has no children.
            Ernest Dale Owen, the third child of Robert Dale Owen, to grow up, born in 1838 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , was also trained abroad with the other children and received a cultural education. He
                    became an excellent violinist. He was trained in the law and later moved to 
                        Chicago
                     where he practiced for many years. Ernest did not have the altruistic sense of the
                    Owens. When about seventy-five years old, while in a state of mental depression, he committed
                    suicide, this about 1914. His wife was Frances Mann, born 1855, one of three sisters who married
                    into the Owen family. She had no offspring and is now living with her sister in 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Rosamond Dale Owen Oliphant Templeton was the last child in this fraternity. She was born in 1843 and
                    went with the other children of Robert to Europe for her education, remaining in 
                        England
                     and has lived most of her life there. She has travelled quite extensively, especially
                    in the Holy Land. She married first Sir Laurence Oliphant, who died of fever soon after in Serbia.
                    Her second husband was James Murray Templeton, Sir Oliphant's secretary, who mysteriously
                    disappeared from a ship in mid-ocean while returning from the Holy Land to 
                        England
                    . It is supposed that while delirious from the effects of a tropical fever he jumped
                    overboard. Rosa is spoken of as a "gentle woman who reverts to the Owen  type." She has a quiet manner and fascinating personality and
                    although frail physically, she is alert mentally and full of cheerfulness and humor. She has a broad
                    streak of sentimentality and is emotionally very active. She was at one time an Episcopalian, later
                    a Theosophist and has recently been interested in other cults, and now considers herself a
                    spiritualist. She has written several books, one on woman suffrage, and one called the Mediators, developing in this the theory of a new cult. During the World war she turned
                    her house over for the care of wounded soldiers and spent so much money for the care of these
                    disabled men that she rendered herself almost penniless. She has used most of her fortune in
                    benevolence of this and other kinds. She now lives in Worthing, 
                  Sussex, England
               .
            This ends the description of Robert Dale Owen and his descendants. Robert, himself, was a near
                    genius, if not possessing genius abilities. Rosamond is the only other one who has stood out as a
                    prominent figure though it is interesting what would have been the future of Grace Zering had she
                    lived. The Owen charm of manner and graciousness is found in many of these as elsewhere in the
                    family.
            WILLIAM OWEN
                    AND HIS DESCENDANTS
            
            William Owen was the second child of Robert Owen who came to America. He was born in 
                        Scotland
                     in 1802. His education to the age of fifteen was conducted by private tutors: after
                    that he went with his older brother, Robert, to the college of M. de Fellenberg at Hofwyl in 
                        Switzerland
                    . Here he remained three years, returning to 
                        England
                     imbued with the idea that rich and poor were fundamentally alike and that manliness and
                    an upright character were the ideals to be sought by every one. For the next few years he worked
                    with his father and became skilled in the manufacture and handling of cotton goods. At the age of
                    twenty-two he came with his father to the 
                        United States
                     and went about the country with him on his first lecture trip and then accompanied him
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     for the beginning of the experiment there. Here he remained the rest of his life except
                    for short business trips.  He had the business mind of his
                    fraternity and the brothers referred all such details to him and looked to him for advice in all
                    practical affairs. He had the gentleness and sweetness of disposition of the Owens but seems to have
                    been a negative character in contrast to his brothers. He died at the age of forty in 1842, cause
                    unknown; his tombstone in the 
                        New Harmony
                     cemetery has the following inscription only, "A native of 
                        Scotland
                    ." He married Mary Bolton, recalled by tradition at 
                        New Harmony
                     as a witty, bright, sparkling young woman, born in 1819 and who died in 1837 soon after
                    the birth of her first child. Her father, Samuel Bolton, went from 
                        England
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                     as one of the students of Maclure and his group of scientists and gave much time to
                    study there. He also operated a mill at 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            The one child of William and Mary Bolton, Mary Francis, was born in 1837 in 
                        New Harmony
                    . She spent her childhood there and later went to 
                        Italy
                     where she studied music, especially voice culture. She sang very well. She returned to
                    this country after a time. She had the placid temper of the Owens and the good nature of her father
                    and no combativeness. She was not interested in the domestic matters of the household, neither did
                    she have any interest in public affairs. As a young woman she was considered a beauty. Later in life
                    she became very deaf. She married twice; her first husband was Henry F. Fitton, by whom she had six
                    children. He died in 1873 and she then married Joel W. Hiatt, with whom she lived until her death a
                    few years ago. Her first husband, Fitton, was born in 1837, in 
                        England
                    , had little education and that at home in 
                        England
                    . He served in the 
                        United States
                     army during the Civil war and when discharged had the rank of captain. He entered
                    business, was shrewd and did well financially. He had no particular outstanding traits or character.
                    He had a good tenor voice which, however, had never been trained. The children of Mary Francis Owen
                    and Henry Fitton are: Frank, William, who died young, Mary, Catharine, Herbert, and Florence. Joel
                    Hiatt, Mary's second husband, is still living.
            Frank Fitton, son of Mary and grandson of William Owen, born about 1860, had a good education. He has
                    been interested in several business activities and is at present engaged  as a grain broker and in charge of farm lands in Posey county, formerly
                    a part of the Ribeyre properties. He and his wife, Emily Ribeyre, now live in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. The wife is of French descent, her father having been a Frenchman who came to
                    Posey county, Indiana, and acquired large tracts of fine farm land where he cultivated corn
                    extensively. His son, Alfred Ribeyre, is now known as the "Corn King of 
                        Posey County
                    " because of his large holdings of land. Frank and Emily have two children,
                    Harry and Hortense. The former is the head of a large contracting firm, is married with two small
                    children, and lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , while the other, gifted intellectually, is married and now lives in
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               .
            The next child of Henry and Mary Francis was Mary, born 1864, an amiable, sweet tempered, cultivated
                    woman who developed tuberculosis and later went west to Boulder, 
                        Colorado
                    , with her family in search of health. Her husband, Herbert Harris, of Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , was always in poor health, but continued with his business and also carried the duties
                    and details of the home. Mary died in 1911 at the age of thirty-seven, leaving two children, Robert,
                    now aged twenty-five, who remained in 
                        Colorado
                    , because of his poor health, and Frances, now twenty-three, who is studying and working
                    in interior house decoration in 
                        New York City
                    . The latter is strong physically.
            Catharine Fitton, the next child of Mary Francis, was one of the 
                        New Harmony
                     beauties and is still considered a handsome woman. She received her education in 
                        New Harmony
                    , is active mentally and ambitious. She has social gifts and tact. Her husband is
                    Malcolm Owen, her cousin, described later, a courteous, kind, educated man. They have two children,
                    Catharine and Mary. Catharine, the elder, born 1896, is interested intellectually in everything, and
                    has abundant energy which is well directed. She is now married to Major James H. Genung, of the 
                        United States
                     army. Mary, born 1901, has attended 
                        Chicago
                     university and is mentally and physically active with many social graces. Catharine
                    Fitton's family live in 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               . Herbert Fitton, brother of Catharine,
                    born 1870, is cashier of a bank at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana. His wife, Catharine Freta-  geot, is an
                    active, energetic woman from a good family of 
                        New Harmony
                     and this couple have one daughter, Mary Louise, born 1903, now a student at Indiana
                    University. Florence Fitton, born about 1872, the last in this fraternity, married Elmer Clark, a
                    newspaper man of 
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
               , and has one child, Hortense, aged fifteen. None of
                    the descendants of William Owen have had any public activities nor the altruism of Robert Owen.
            JANE OWEN
                    AND HER DESCENDANTS
            
            Jane Dale Owen, daughter of Robert, was born in 
                        Scotland
                     in 1805 and came to 
                        New Harmony
                     soon after the beginning of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment. She was a fine musician and played the piano well. She was quiet in manner
                    and very much attached to her children. After marriage she travelled in Europe for a time returning
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     where she spent the rest of her life. There she conducted a school for children in her
                    own home. This was an "oral" school similar to the one her sister-in-law Mary had
                    taught. Her husband was Robert Henry Fauntleroy, born 1806 in 
                        Virginia
                    . His father was Joseph Fauntleroy of Virginia and he, with a Mr. Taylor, had bought the
                    store and merchandising rights from the Owens during community times. Robert, then aged twenty, kept
                    the meteorological records for 
                        New Harmony
                     during community days and for a time after that collaborated in these reports with the 
                        United States
                     government bureau at 
                        Washington
                    . His profession was that of a geologist though he was a mathematician and an astronomer
                    also. He was an inventor of several things including a special kind of organ. He was musical,
                    playing the flute and violin and other instruments well. He was called the 
                        Chesterfield
                     of 
                        New Harmony
                     because of his distinguished appearance and bearing, though he really was very gentle
                    in his manners. Robert carried on the Southern Coast survey for the 
                        United States
                     government and was chief of the Geodetic service and in this work travelled extensively
                    through the south and west parts of the 
                        United States
                    . He died in 1849, comparatively young, and was buried in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Rappite House No. 52 was his home in 
                        New Harmony
                    , as it was  also the home of Robert Dale Owen and
                    Thomas Say, the Zoologist, at other times, and was also the birthplace of the first Woman's
                    club in America, the Minerva club. This house is now called the Fauntleroy Home.
            Jane survived Robert by twelve years, dying in 1861. They had six children, two dying in infancy and
                    the others, Constance, Ellinor, Edward and Arthur, reaching maturity. The oldest, Constance
                    Fauntleroy, born 1836, is the one individual in this generation of Owens who approached nearest to
                    the genius type. She received her early training at home in 
                        New Harmony
                    . At the age of five she was a creditable performer on the piano. She also developed a
                    remarkable ability for story writing and den very young wrote her first poem. During her subsequent
                    attendance at the school in 
                        New Harmony
                     she busied herself in writing stories, poems and songs. Upon the death of her father
                    the family went to Stuttgart, 
                        Germany
                    , where Constance, then sixteen, devoted herself to the study of music, the languages,
                    drawing and painting, her tutor on the piano-forte being Boherez, a pupil of Moscheles. At the age
                    of twenty-two, she returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     where, in 1858, she organized the first woman's club in America. This society
                    was known as the Minerva club. This club had a full set of duly elected officers and carried on its
                    business under regular parliamentary rules. She had become a religious convert while in 
                        Germany
                     and after returning to the 
                        United States
                     became a zealous worker in that field. In 1861, she married Dr. James Runcie and soon
                    moved from 
                        New Harmony
                     to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, where Dr. Runcie was rector of the Episcopal church and there Constance
                    founded a Brontis club, literary in nature. A few years later they moved to 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               , which was her home the rest of her life. Here Dr. Runcie held the
                    pastorate of Christ church as long as he lived.
            In 
                        St. Joseph
                    , she, in conjunction with her husband, established the Christ church league for the
                    purpose of stimulating interest in art and literature. She organized the Runcie club in 
                        St. Joseph
                     and for many years was the intellectual light of that city. Divinely
                    Led is the story of her conversion to religion and appeared in 1873. In 1888, her verse was
                    collected in a volume entitled Poems, Dramatic and Lyric while 
                    A Burning Question was another story published in 1891. Her musical career extends
                    over many years. Her daughter says the following of her mother: 
                        Music was the natural expression of her rhythmic and poetic soul. Her music is essentially
                            melodic and graceful; it is not bromidic, it is distinctive, it never palls on the ear, and
                            much of it has a passion of feeling, notably the religious pieces. Half of her forty pieces
                            are sacred, the others show immense versatility. She wrote one operetta, The
                                Prince of Asturia, full of drollery and laughing humor, which is still in
                            manuscript.
                    
            
            Constance had a scientific mind and a keen understanding of scientific problems. She read many
                    scientific works and when it is remembered that her father and two maternal uncles were eminent
                    scientists, it is not strange that she had this interest so deeply ingrained in her. She called
                    Science the "Handmaid of Religion," and did not see any clash between the two. She
                    liked to feel always that she was teaching and giving out information. She has written some poetry;
                    the opening ode for the 
                        Chicago
                     Exposition, and the book of, poems as mentioned above. She was a beautiful reader of
                    prose and poetry and enjoyed doing it. She was deeply religious and assisted her husband greatly in
                    his parish work. She played the piano by ear imperfectly but with a sympathetic touch, her daughter
                    states.
            Constance had a strong family feeling and was somewhat domestic in her ways. She had a keen sense of
                    duty to her family, her friends, all the world and especially the church, and was so dominated by
                    that sense as to make her sometimes appear selfish and egotistical. She did not have the gentle,
                    altruistic nature so characteristic of the Owens, as strongly as did her sister Ellinor. Constance
                    died in 1911, outliving her husband and leaving four children.
            Her husband, James Runcie, was born near Dundalk, 
                        Ireland
                    , in 1824. He received a medical training at the University of 
                        Dublin
                    , later coming to this country, where he studied for the Episcopal ministry under Bishop
                    Upfold of Indiana. He served parishes at 
                  New
                        Harmony, Madison
               , Indiana, and
                            
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               , he being at this latter place at the time of his death. He
                    was not a High Churchman, his sermons  were written and simple.
                    "He was first of all a pastor and children loved him and his parishioners were very
                    reverential toward him." He was studious but not literary, unselfish and benevolent. Just
                    previous to his death he declined the election to the Bishopric. He died in 1889 of hernia. He and
                    Constance had four children, Blessing, Ellinor, Roy and Percy, all living now in 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               . Constance Blessing, the oldest, born in 1863 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , was educated in private schools. At the age of twenty-six she was married to Elliott
                    Marshall in 
                        St. Joseph
                     and has lived there since then. She had the quiet charm and simple honesty of the
                    Owens. She is a woman of high principles, makes friends easily, and likes society. She is considered
                    by all a fine character, unselfish, interested in others and of fine sensibilities. Her husband,
                    Elliott Marshall, born in 1851 in 
                        New York
                    , comes of Stuyvesant and other old 
                        New York City
                     blood. He is a graduate of 
                        Columbia
                     university and went to Missouri where he entered the real estate and insurance
                    business. He is now mayor of 
                        St. Joseph
                    . He is a large-hearted, fine type of a man with many friends and has done well in his
                    business. He and Blessing Runcie have two children, Jean, born 1893, is a young society matron of
                            
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , attractive, intelligent and capable. She married John Henry
                    Savage, Jr., of 
                        Cleveland
                    ; he died in 1919 leaving her with one child, Constance, born 1917. Her brother,
                    Elliott, Jr., born 1896, in 
                        St. Joseph
                    , Mo., attended the University of 
                        Missouri
                    , but did not graduate due to ill health. He is now associated with his father in the
                    insurance business.
            Fauntleroy Runcie, born 1864, is the second child in the Runcie family. He has the child-like
                    simplicity and faith of the early Owens in the goodness of the world. He has a fine tenor voice and
                    has sung for many years in the Christ church choir in 
                        St. Joseph
                    , Mo., where he resides. His sister, Ellinor, born 1871, was educated in private schools
                    and has taken special work in universities of 
                  England,
                            California
               , and other places, studying
                    mainly in the field of literary criticism. She is now a teacher in Miss Barstow's school in 
                        Kansas City
                    , Mo., and here her ideal is to exert an ethical influence on girls in the spiritual and
                    moral life through the teachings of history. She is very literary and musical, playing the piano,
                    has com-  posed a little, nothing of which, however, has been
                    published. She has the Owenite kindly sympathy and is an estimable character. She resides in
                            
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               . Percy, the last child of James Runcie and Constance, born
                    1874, attended private schools, and since reaching adult age, has been a bookworm, having an
                    encyclopedic type mind for minutiae. He is a recluse and lives at home with his sister.
            Returning to the main line again, we next take up Ellinor Fauntleroy, daughter of Jane and Robert,
                    born 1837. She travelled with her mother in Europe when young. and again later in life visited
                    Europe. She had many of the Owen traits—quiet in manner and temper, a woman of judgment
                    and thought. She has been considered the one in this fraternity who most nearly approximated Robert
                    Owen in his love of mankind. She always imagined herself an invalid physically and so was quite
                    inactive. She married George Davidsoll and had three children by him. She died in 1908 in 
                        California
                    . George Davidson, the husband, was born in Nottingham, 
                        England
                    , May 9, 1825, and came to this country when he was seven years of age. His early
                    schooling was in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . His first scientific work was in the geodetic field and astronomical surveys in the
                    eastern part of the 
                        United States
                     for the government geodetic service. Later he was sent to the Pacific coast, this in
                    1850, and there he had charge of the coast surveys of 
                  California, Oregon, Washington
                and 
                        Alaska
                    . He retired from the coast and geodetic survey work after fifty years service. In 1870
                    he had been appointed honorary professor of geodesy and astronomy and later was professor of
                    geography at the University of California and kept this latter chair until his death. He was a
                    member of many learned bodies including the National Academy of Science. This man, of Scotch
                    ancestry, was witty and a brilliant conversationalist, but a man of contrasts, grouchy at times;
                    very pleasant at others. He had the same lack of self-consciousness so marked in Robert Owen.
                    Through his work in the geological service of the 
                        United States
                    , he became intimate with David Dale and his brother Richard, the 
                        United States
                     geologists, and married their niece, Ellinor Fauntleroy. Their children are three in
                    number, George, Tom and Ellinor. George, born 1865, entered 
                        Harvard
                     college, where he had a  brilliant scholastic
                    record, but when he left college was a physical wreck. He and his brother Tom had marked mechanical
                    ability, a trait of the Fauntleroy blood, and after graduation built a yacht between them, and did
                    other things of the same sort. His eyes had become weak through too much study and George later went
                    on a ranch in the far west as an overseer. At the age of fifty he committed suicide, a result of his
                    continued ill health. He was gifted in intellectual qualities, an Owenite in many particulars, but
                    more dominant in character than his sister Ellinor. He refused to marry a woman whom he loved
                    because of his ill health and desired not to produce children who might be weak. Tom, his brother,
                    born about 1868, was also a fine student at 
                        Harvard
                     college and was mechanically inclined. He is now employed in a law office, is
                    unmarried, and lives with his sister in 
                  San
                        Francisco, California
               . The
                    sister, Ellinor Davidson, born 1878, had a high school education in California and associated with
                    the cultivated and highly trained associates of and visitors to her father's home, he being
                    one of the intellectual lights of the west at that time. She has never married and has travelled but
                    little. She is a fine conversationalist, a woman of high ideals and very philanthropic in nature and
                    ideals, aided in this through the property left to her by her father. She has much of the altruism
                    of the early Owens.
            The other two children of Jane and Robert Fauntleroy never married. Edward Henry, born 1841, was
                    educated abroad with the rest of the Fauntleroy children. At nineteen he had returned to the 
                        United States
                     and was assisting his father on the western coast survey when he became ill, died
                    suddenly, and was buried in 
                        New Harmony
                    . His brother Arthur Robert, born 1843, became a civil engineer. He was always
                    successful in his profession, was a good business man, and acquired property and holdings. He had a
                    droll humor, good disposition, was generous, and liked by everyone. He never married and died at the
                    age of forty-one of pneumonia, being in 
                  Milwaukee,
                            Wisconsin
               , at the time.
            The Fauntleroy descendants have shown a brilliant intellectual development, some music and other
                    production, but the strain at the present time is dying out, only one of this  group, Jean Savage, having young offspring. The Owen-Fauntleroy strain
                    then is practically gone.
            DAVID DALE OWEN
                    AND HIS DESCENDANTS
            
            David Dale Owen was the next younger child of Robert Owen after Jane. He was born in Lanarkshire, 
                        Scotland
                    , in 1807, and received his early education in 
                        Scotland
                     and later was a student with Richard at Fellenberg's School at Hofwyl, in 
                        Switzerland
                    , where his two older brothers had been trained. He came to the 
                        United States
                     soon after the beginning of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment in January, 1828, being then about twenty years old. He probably never took
                    any prominent part in the organization or activities of the community other than as one of its
                    members. After the breaking up he went to Europe to pursue his studies in geology and natural
                    science later returning to the 
                        United States
                     in 1833. He then attended the Ohio Medical college where he took a medical degree in
                    1835. In 1837, he was commissioned by the state legislature to make a preliminary geological survey
                    of Indiana, and in June, 1839, was appointed geologist of the 
                        United States
                    . His first big undertaking for the government was a minute examination of the lands of
                    Iowa and Missouri for general and mineral resources. In this work he trained his own assistants.
                    This was the very first geological investigation of that type conducted under authority of the
                    national government. This report was published in 1844. The headquarters of the 
                        United States
                     geological survey were then at 
                        New Harmony
                     and remained there until 1856 when they were removed to the Smithsonian Institution at 
                        Washington
                    , just finished at that time.
            In 1849 David Owen started a survey of Minnesota territory which lasted three years. The report
                    contained among other things numerous plates, all drawn by Owen, some of them king of the gigantic
                    mammal remains of 
                        Nebraska
                    . From 1854 to 1857 David Dale Owen was state geologist of Arkansas and in his work
                    there was assisted by his pupil, Prof. E. E. Cox. In 
                        Arkansas
                    , his health was affected by the exposure to the wet country, then full of fevers, and
                    his death,  four years later, was hastened by this work. In 1859
                    he was appointed state geologist of Indiana. He died in 1860, shortly after taking up his last work.
                    His collection, which was a remarkably complete one, was purchased by the state of Indiana some
                    years ago and is now in the State University of 
                        Bloomington
                    . David was succeeded in Indiana by his brother Richard. The development of geological
                    research in this country is thus seen to have been closely associated with 
                        New Harmony
                     and the Owen family.
            David was a mild-tempered, quiet acting man who lived such within himself. He was not as aggressive
                    as his brothers. He was always studious and was imbued with a strong scientific, searching mind. He
                    was of slight build and ascetic appearance. His death at the age of fifty-three, was caused by
                    stomach trouble. His published works are found in the official reports of the Government and in
                    different state departments of geology.
            David's wife was Caroline Neef, daughter of Joseph Neef, the Alsatian teacher brought to 
                        New Harmony
                     by William Maclure for his school. Born in Neef's family, she had a good
                    education and a fine cultural and intellectual environment. She was a good housekeeper and a fine
                    mother to her children. She was born in 1815 in 
                        France
                     and died comparatively young in 1854 at 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Francis Joseph Nicholas Neef, was educated for a priest and spoke six languages. He revolted from the
                    priesthood, as he grew older, and was a soldier for a time, fighting under Napoleon for ten years.
                    He was shot in the face near the nose, the bullet remaining in the head. He turned his attention to
                    education after this injury which prevented his further army service. He joined himself to
                    Pestalozzi in Switzerland and when Pestalozzi opened his branch school in 
                        Paris
                     he sent Neef to be its head. Here Maclure became acquainted with Neef. During this time
                    Neef had married a Louise —, the daughter of a stern, hard-hearted man, and had one child
                    Victor, born in 
                        Paris
                    . Maclure brought Neef and his family to America starting a school near 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where the Pestalozzian system of education was used. Here Admiral Farragut was one of
                    the pupils. Here Neef had several children born, Louisa, Wilhelmina, Zulina, who died young, Caro-
                         line and Anne Eliza. They lived on the banks of the
                    Schuylkill, where the school was situated then later moved to Kentucky where Neef had a farm. He
                    next went to Port 
                        Fulton
                    , near 
                        Louisville
                    . At this time Louise, the wife, bought a piano, the first piano in 
                        Louisville
                     and a great curiosity. She had taught her husband to sing. From Port 
                        Fulton
                    , the family at Owen's and Maclure's request, moved to 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            The whole family then moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where the father taught French. Victor left home, worked in a lumber camp, caught the
                    fever, came home and died. They later returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     where the family remained. In later years Joseph became nearly blind. His portrait was
                    then painted by D. D. Owen; it now hangs in Mrs. Snedeker's library at Hempstead.
            David and Caroline's children are four in number: Alfred D., William H., Nina and Anna.
                    Alfred, the oldest, was born in 1841 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and at the age of fourteen went to Europe with the Fauntleroy children to study. He
                    remained away two years and during this time visited 
                  England, Germany
               , and other parts of Europe.
                    The Civil war started soon after his return to the 
                        United States
                     and he was one of the first to enlist. He was once made prisoner but was later
                    exchanged. He was sent home sick but recuperated and returned to fight to the end. He rose to the
                    rank of Colonel in the service. It is said that "his affection, merriment, ardor for the
                    cause and tenderness of heart made him peculiarly loved by all who came in contact with him during
                    the service." Soon after returning from war he married Anna Belle 
                        Caldwell
                     of 
                        New Harmony
                    . She was born in 1849 and died in 1906. Alfred was a banker in company with Charles
                    Parke, his brother-in-law, but his goodness of heart in lending money to anyone who needed it
                    irrespective of a man's ability to repay, was too much for him financially. As an older man
                    he was broken but not dependent. He had the Owen kindly disposition and good temper but not the
                    social mind characteristic of his uncle Robert. He died of blood poisoning at the age of sixty-two,
                    having lived in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana, practically all his life. He had little musical ability, his wife and
                    children none. He had five children: David, Jessie, who married William Haas, Alfred, Helen who
                    married John Bald-  win, and William. These children are now
                    grown up and scattered in Oklahoma and 
                        Texas
                    .
            William H. Owen, born 1847, was the second child of David Owen. He received his education in Indiana
                    and became a banker at 
                        New Harmony
                    . He was considered a good business man and held in very high esteem there. He was the
                    only scientist of his generation, his chief interest being in astronomy, which he studied for many
                    years. He had the even Owen temperament and led a quiet, clean life, was very economical in his
                    habits, and died in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1896.
            Nina Dale Owen was the third child of David and Caroline Neef. She showed none of the high
                    intellectuality of the Owens; her childlike sympathy was her chief characteristic. She was genial,
                    witty and appreciative of humor, as were most of the Owens, and possessed the family charm of manner
                    and graciousness. She was educated in music and was very talented in that line as were all her
                    children; both she and they played and sang well. She wrote some music but has never published any.
                    She and the family moved from 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana, their home, to 
                        Cincinnati
                     that the children might have an opportunity to procure the best musical education. She
                    was born in 1849 and died in 1911 of arterio-schlerosis. Her husband, Charles Parke, born 1845, was
                    a banker in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     for many years and successful in his business. He had a calm but firm disposition, was
                    self-sacrificing for his family, but selfish with respect to the outer world. He was apparently not
                    musical, but after association with his wife in her musical sphere became very appreciative of good
                    music. Book-collecting became his hobby. For many years he lived at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , where his banking business was located, while his family were in 
                        Cincinnati
                     for their musical training, travelling between the two places at regular intervals. He
                    died in 1902 leaving five children: Caroline, Ada, Julius, Anna and Nina. All of these children have
                    possessed remarkable musical traits and these are noted specifically later.
            Caroline Dale Parke, born 1871 in 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana, is a true "Owenite," a charming, cultivated woman with a
                    beautiful character. The customs of today horrify her. She is distinctly of the Mid-Victorian age
                    and has a desire to accomplish but is impractical. Her outstanding characteristics  are her simplicity and lack of self-consciousness, and her enjoyment of
                    humor in others. She is a lover of the Greek though not a student of the old Greek language and her
                    book The Coward of Thermopylae is a fine exposition of her ideas of the culture of
                    the Greeks. She is now writing another story of the Greeks. Seth Way, written by
                    Caroline, is a narrative of 
                        New Harmony
                     days during Owen's time and is in the form of a story told to her by her
                    grandmother who lived in 
                        New Harmony
                     at the time. It is an attempt to put forth Owen's ideas of his "new
                    moral world" and communism and brings in the activities of the scientists who were at 
                        New Harmony
                    . The book is not accurate in detail as to historic matters and is not as well written
                    as her book The Coward of Thermopylae which has received very favorable criticism.
                    Caroline is a gifted but not inspired musician. She plays the piano and has written some music, none
                    published. She married Charles H. Snedeker, the Episcopal Rector of St. George Parish at Hempstead,
                    Long Island. She resides at the rectory at Hempstead. She has no children.
            Ada Parke, her sister, was born in 1873. She was interested in botany, zoology, chirography, French
                    and Italian and studied these over a period of years, but she was not as intellectual as Caroline.
                    She studied voice culture in 
                        Paris
                     under Jean De Reszke and had a fine colorature voice but she found she was not gifted
                    in music and turned to charity work. She has always played the viola. She returned to the 
                        United States
                     and after spending some time in an Episcopal training school, joined a religious order
                    and worked the rest of her life in a Magdalen Home in 
                        Brooklyn
                    . The Owen altruism was strong in Ada and she took up this work to do her share for the
                    good of the world. She had many serious illnesses during her life and her health was always poor.
                    She was therefore forced to lead a comparatively quiet life. She developed much charm after entering
                    the sisterhood, but was always very retiring and very unassuming. She had a droll humor. She died in
                    1918 of Bright's Disease.
            Julius, brother of Ada and Caroline, born 1875, had scarlet fever when young and was unconscious for
                    some days during the illness. Otherwise he had no disease history. When young he did not seem to be
                    interested at all in musical matters, but  at the age of
                    fourteen, took up the study of the cello and became a skilful player and played true as a man.
                    Because of this decided musical ability, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Symphony orchestra made him an offer, but his father preferred a business training for
                    him and he was sent to Yale university to study architecture. After graduation he lived in various
                    places and worked as a draftsman and though interested and happy in his work was not successful and
                    worried much over the money affairs of his family. It has been said that Julius should have been
                    given the opportunity to have developed his one genius trait, that of music, in which he was very
                    much interested. Julius died in 1912 leaving a wife, May Trivett, and three children. His wife, also
                    a musician, taught the piano after her husband's death to support the family. She also has
                    composed. The oldest child, Robert, born 1904, plays the violin, Loraine, born 1908, plays both the
                    harp and the violin well and Julius, now twelve, shows marked ability with the violin. They all live
                    at 95 Richton Ave., 
                        Highland
                     Park, 
                        Detroit
                    .
            Anna, born 1877, sister of Julius, also had scarlet fever as a child. As she grew older she became
                    more interested in people and became quite altruistic, being especially good to little children. She
                        resembled1 the Parkes in temperament and was more high-tempered than any of
                    her sibs. She was very musical, playing the violin, but she did not have as much music in her as did
                    her younger sister Nina. She was very attractive physically. Her husband, Carl Maier, of 
                        Los Angeles
                    , comes from a musical family. His mother was an opera singer; his mother's
                    uncle was a cellist and his father had some musical heredity. Their one son, Owen Maier, born 1911,
                    is just now beginning to play on the piano, and, in the opinion of Mrs. Snedeker, with whom he is
                    now living, will some time be a fine performer. Anna died in 1913.
            Nina, born 1880, the last child of Charles Parke, was very musical. She played the violin and the
                    cello with perfect sense of rhythm and tone. She does not have the big technic of a concert player
                    because she has a small hand. She is practical and domestic in nature, more so than any of the
                    Parkes and has the altruistic note of the Owens, like her sister Anna, and more of the Owen charm
                    than Caroline. She married Dr. Frederick Stillwell and resides at 3770 Reading Road, 
                        Avon
                    -  dale, 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               . They
                    have one child, Caroline, born 1911, who has a remarkable sense of music, both in melody and rhythm,
                    but not as developed as that of her uncle and aunts in the preceding generation. This is the last of
                    the Parkes.
            Anna Owen, daughter of David Dale Owen, is next and last in the list of his children. She was always
                    mentally alert and a tomboy as a child. She was intellectually interested in many things and had
                    many of the characteristic Owen traits though not in as strong a degree as the older members of the
                    family. Her first husband was named Shult; her second by whom she had all her children, was Charles
                    Crawford, a business man. She lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Bay 
                        St. Louis
                    , Miss. She died in 1912. Her two children are Owen, born 1874, and Louise, born a few
                    years later. Owen received a college education and entered the railroad business where he has been
                    successful He has some of the Owen altruism and charm of manner. He is married and has three small
                    children and now resides in Bay 
                        St. Louis
                    . Louise, his sister, has the Owen altruism and is personally unselfish and very kind to
                    others. During the World war she worked in a railroad office and did very, well. She also resides in
                    Bay 
                        St. Louis
                    .
            This completes the story of David's children. The children of Alfred have had none of the
                    distinctive Owen traits of character. One group that of Nina, has shown a strong musical strain. One
                    in that group also is a writer of some note. Otherwise the Owen intellectual ability of old has not
                    appeared in this group though the Owen temperament has been quite prominent.
            RICHARD OWEN
                    AND HIS DESCENDANTS
            
            Richard Owen, the last son of Robert, born January 6; 1810, in Lanarkshire, 
                        Scotland
                    , received his early training and education in the Lanark grammar school after which he
                    was a student at Hofwyl in Switzerland as were his other brothers. He left Hofwyl and studied for a
                    time in the Ander-sonian Institute in 
                        Glasgow
                    . In 1828 he came to this country, to 
                        New Harmony
                    , and taught for a time in the community  schools.
                    After the breaking up of the community he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he engaged in business but subsequently returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     where he owned and operated a steam flour mill and also managed a stock farm. In 1847
                    he fought in the Mexican war and immediately after that assisted his brother David in his geological
                    work. In 1849 he became professor of natural science in the Western Military Institute of Kentucky
                    and he continued to hold that chair after that school became the academic school of the University
                    of 
                        Nashville
                    . In 1858 he was given the degree of doctor of medicine by the 
                        Nashville
                     Medical College. He then became assistant geologist of the state of Indiana. He rose to
                    the rank of colonel during the Civil war and during part of this time was commanding officer of the
                    prison camp for Confederate soldiers at Camp Morton, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The esteem in which he was held by the prisoners is shown by the fact that some years
                    later these same Confederate prisoners placed a bust of Colonel Owen in the State House in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and inscribed to that effect. In 1864 he accepted the chair of natural science in the
                    state university of Indiana and held that until 1879. Besides geology and natural science, he has
                    published a paper in meteorology, terrestrial magnetism and seismology.
            Richard Owen was a gentleman of the old school, gracious, calm, lacking in self-consciousness. He was
                    altruistic in nature and especially interested in children. In later years he became more irritable
                    and cross and moody at times. He had no particular musical ability. In later years he was very deaf.
                    He died in 1890 at the age of eighty. "His first desire was to be virtuous, his second to
                    be wise," is found written on his tombstone.
            His wife was Anna Neef, sister of Caroline Neef who married David Dale Owen. She was a woman of high
                    ideals and principles, kindly and altruistic, witty and vivacious. She imbibed information without
                    being a student. She was the first lady of 
                        New Harmony
                    , socially. She was born in 1819 in 
                        France
                    , died in 1895, and is buried in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Richard and Anne had two children, Eugene and Horace. The former, Eugene Fellenberg,
                    received his education in the 
                        United States
                    . He became a farmer and raised stock. He studied the pedigrees of his cattle
                    scientifically as he did other things in which  he was
                    interested. He was a dreamer, however, and note a good business man. Easy, generous and confiding,
                    like most of the Owens, he lost much money in various ventures, some in a land scheme in 
                        Oklahoma
                    . He was an officer in the 
                        United States
                     army during the Civil war. He was always deaf and this increased with age. He married
                    Della Mann and lived in New Hamony all his life. His death occurred in 1905. His Wife, Della, born
                    1843, had little education and training; her information has been absorbed through contact with
                    others. She is kindly and charitable in thought and deed. She has been industrious all her life and
                    a good housekeeper. Her parents died young and she was brought up in Mary Fitton's home.
                    Her father was a man of fair intelligence, by profession, a physician. Two sisters of Della have
                    married into the Owen family; otherwise there are no data of Della's family. Now, at the
                    age of seventy-eight, she is a gentle lady, still active. Eugene and Della had three children,
                    Howard, who died at the age of eleven, Malcolm and Robert Dale. Malcolm, born in 1870 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , attended college at Indiana university where he was very popular. He later studied law
                    with his uncle Ernest in 
                        Chicago
                     and since that time has been successful in his law practice. Malcolm is courteous,
                    gracious and kindly, a typical Owen in temperament. He married his cousin, Catherine Fitton, as
                    previously mentioned, has-two children, and lives in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Malcom's brother, Robert Dale, born 1879, was a handsome boy and later a fine looking man.
                    He was more democratic than his father. He had good business ability and was employed as a
                    travelling man for a bank furnishing house in Des Moines, 
                        Iowa
                    . He lacked certain inhibitions. He died of disease in 1917. He was never married.
            Horace Pestalozzi Owen was the second child of Richard and was born in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1842. He received his early education in private schools and the Western Military
                    Institute at Blue Lick Springs, 
                        Kentucky
                    , an institution owned by his father and General Bushnell Johnson, which later became
                    part of the University of 
                        Nashville
                     as previously stated. About this time the sectional feeling that preceded the Civil war
                    was growing more and more bitter, and on this account the father came north. Colonel Richard Owen
                    was state geologist at this  time and Horace assisted him in this
                    work for several years. Then the Civil war came and Horace enlisted in the service, roe rapidly, and
                    was adjutant of a brigade when he resigned in 1863 to return to 
                        New Harmony
                     to care for his mother, his father remaining in the service until the end of the war.
                    He turned to business and entered the implement business with V. C. Duclos as a partner. He was
                    later in the dry goods business, then in the grain business in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     and became cashier of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Banking company at its organization. He later became president of the bank and held the
                    position until he died. He served as a member of the 
                        New Harmony
                     school board for many years and president of the Workingman's Institute. He
                    was also senior warden of the Episcopal church in 
                        New Harmony
                     for many years.
            Horace had the Owen characteristics to a very marked degree, and was much like his father. He stands
                    out in this group and elsewhere than in 
                        New Harmony
                     would have been a great philanthropist. He was very altruistic and was the most typical
                    Owen of his generation. He was always courteous, kind, and liked by everyone—a
                    well-rounded character. His wife was Natalie Mann, sister of Della, who married Eugene Owen. Horace
                    Owen had three children, Nora, Aline, and Richard Dale. Nora, born 1868 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , was a strong character, gracious, tactful and politic. She had a common school
                    education. She too was musical. She married Arthur D. Armstrong, of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, a successful man in the furniture business, and they resided for some years
                    in 
                        Memphis
                    , Tenn. Nora died in 1918 of influenza. Nora and Arthur Armstrong had two children,
                    Natalie and Owen. The older, born about 1890, has some musical ability. She is well educated. She
                    married Robert E. L. Wilson, has two small children, and now resides at Wilson's Station, 
                        Arkansas
                    . The other child of Nora, Owen, born about 1894, graduated from 
                        Princeton
                     college. He has a fine tenor voice and has sung for some years in the church choir. He
                    is associated with his father in the furniture business and resides in 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               .
            Aline Owen, born 1870 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , had a high school education. She has the calm, quiet disposition of the earlier  Owens, and while generous, is not altruistic. She married Dr.
                    Benjamin Neal, and is now employed in one of the local banks in 
                        New Harmony
                     where she resides. Her brother, Richard Dale Owen, born 1876, is the last child of
                    Horace and Natalie Owen. He is a man of fine instincts, good intelligence and some of the Owen
                    kindly characteristics. He is associated with his brother-in-law in the furniture business at 
                        Memphis
                    . His wife, Lucille Eagle from 
                        New Harmony
                    , has marked musical ability. She sings and also teaches music. They have two children:
                    Kenneth, born 1904, considered by all "a typical Owen" in temperament, entering
                    college in 1922, and a younger girl, Frances.
            This ends the description of the descendants of Robert Owen as Margaret Owen, the last child of
                    Robert Owen, never came to the 
                        United States
                     and was never married.
            THE GENERAL SUMMARY
            
            Robert Owen and his sons were prominent in the social, political, educational and scientific life of
                    their time. The biographical and genealogical data of the ancestry and the descendants of such a
                    family then are of interest. In this paper their achievements have been noted. There has also been
                    added something of their personal traits, their temperaments, their likes and dislikes, their
                    ambitions and desires. The noting of these different traits added to the picture of the individual
                    perhaps makes his actions more clear, explains his behavior and interests. The altruism of Robert
                    Owen made him spend a fortune in attempts to better the conditions of his fellow men. This same
                    altruism, love of fellow man in general, devotion to the interests of others, is a trait found in
                    many of the Owen family. The "Owen charm and graciousness of manner," noted in the
                    foregoing description, here and there, is another trait of interest. Robert Owen possessed a keen
                    business sense; it is found in only one of his children and in a few of his later descendants. The
                    Owens in later years have not been wealthy. Music and other arts have found warm friends in many of
                    the family. The Fauntleroys and the Parkes have made a name for themselves in music. Robert  Dale Owen was a voluminous writer. Several others have been
                    writers of more or less note. Robert Dale Owen was a statesman. Many have been soldiers.
            The reader of a paper of this sort desires not to be wearied by immaterial dates of birth and other
                    like notes. The complete genealogical and biographical data of the Owen family with much that is not
                    noted here, data of material interest, however, are filed in the archives of the Eugenics Record
                    Office at Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, 
                        New York
                    .
            The lineage of Robert Owen goes back only to his father, an ironmonger and local official in a small
                    place in 
                        Wales
                    , Newtown. His mother was "superior in mind and manner." It is
                    unfortunate that no more is known of the folk, the blood, that produced Robert Owen, the idealist,
                    educator, reformer and communist. His wife, Ann Caroline Dale, originated from a family in whose
                    veins the best blood of 
                        Scotland
                     has flowed, the Argylls and the Breadalbanes. Is it to be wondered at that the children
                    of this pair have ability, charm, interest in art and music? Robert Dale Owen, the son of Robert
                    Owen, was a statesman of America. This same Robert Dale and his daughter were writers. Jane Owen,
                    another child of Robert Owen, was a teacher and married a brilliant young scientist, Robert H.
                    Fauntleroy, and their daughter was Constance Fauntleroy Runcie who made a name for herself as a
                    composer of music and as a writer and organizer. This same musical ability is found in the
                    descendants of David Dale Owen, another son of Robert Owen. David Dale was the geologist and
                    scientist. A writer of no mean ability, though not voluminous, is Caroline Dale Snedeker, of the
                    David branch, The other son of Robert Owen was Richard, a soldier, scientist and later a teacher of
                    natural science at Indiana university.
            The altruism which is found in Robert Owen, and, to a less degree, in David Dale, his father-in-law,
                    is again reproduced in many of his descendants. Robert Dale Owen was an altruist; Rosamond Owen
                    Templeton gave her home for the care of wounded British soldiers during the late war; Julian Owen
                    did for his fellow citizens in a small way, Constance Fauntleroy Runcie was the constant aid of her
                    minister husband, Ellinor Davidson has been a philanthropist so far as her re-  sources permit, Alfred, son of David, and his three sisters were
                    altruistic in nature, Horace P. Owen was philanthropic and large-hearted and many others had the
                    trait but in a less marked degree.
            The Owen charm and graciousness of manner, so characteristic of the earlier members of the family, is
                    found here and there among the descendants and is quickly recognized and felt by those who have the
                    good fortune to meet it.
            A high grade of intellectual ability is found in Robert Owen and his three genius sons. This same
                    high grade of mental ability is found in others of the family, not in all, it is true, because some
                    of the matings of the Owens have been into strains not as strong as themselves and the offspring
                    have inherited also from the out-blood. Three of the sons of Robert had high-grade mental ability,
                    Robert the statesman, David and Richard the scientists. Others with high intellectual ability were
                    Constance Fauntleroy Runcie, who studied science as well as the arts, Grace Owen Zering, who died in
                    her early twenties, William H. Owen, a student of astronomy, and some others. It is interesting to
                    add here that not a sinble feeble-minded person is found in the Owen family.
            Progress has been made in the technique of the measurement of general mental intelligence. The army
                    intelligence tests and other psychological tests are offering measuring sticks for mental ability.
                    The temperamental traits, however, can not as yet be measured with a yard stick as one measures the
                    height of an individual, but as time goes on, it is probable that the behavior traits in turn will
                    be measured quantitatively just as they now are observed qualitatively. The further study of such
                    families as the Owens, where distinctive traits and behavior, as here, can be observed and reported,
                    with technique of observation continually becoming better, will in time amass a set of information
                    which will show what traits of behavior are inherited, how they are influenced by training and
                    "environment," and what behavior reactions depend alone on the associations of the
                    individual concerned.
            This study of human behavior is here presented to stimulate interest in this type of biographical
                    genealogy. It is also presented to show that certain traits and methods of behavior  are continually present or reappearing in a family and that a certain
                    high grade of mental ability is characteristic of a group, but not necessarily found in every member
                    of that group. It also shows a group of socially minded, thoughtful people. The Owens have been an
                    aristogenic family and their activities and behavior and traits are therefore of public
                interest.
         
         
         
            Historical News
            BY THE INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
            
            The Fourth annual conference on Indiana history held under the auspices of the society of Indiana
                    Pioneers, the Indiana historical society and the Indiana historical commission, was held on December
                    8th and 9th, 1922. From the standpoint of interest and attendance, the Fourth conference was by far
                    the most successful that has yet been held. There were three hundred and forty-two registrations,
                    and perhaps seventy-five or one hundred who did not register, making the total attendance run well
                    over four hundred. Fifty-four of the ninety-two counties were represented. Four hundred and
                    sixty-eight attended the annual pioneer dinner on Saturday evening. Prof. Benjamin F. Shambaugh of
                    the Iowa historical society, Hamlin Garland, author, 
                        New York
                    , and George R. Fox of Three Oaks, 
                        Michigan
                    , were the principal speakers at the conference.
            The Friday afternoon program was given, over chiefly to a discussion of the problems relating to
                    county and local historical societies. Reports from the committees that were appointed at the
                    preceding conference were given, consisting of a report on School Co-operation by Prof. Herbert
                    Briggs of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; The Congressional Advisory committee on Historical Co-operation by Ben F. Stuart of
                    Burnettsville; The Archaelogical and Historical Survey of Indiana, by John W. Oliver; and a series
                    of reports from representatives from county historical societies. Professor Shambaugh gave an
                    address on Our Relation to History. His talk was an inspiration to all the historical workers in
                    Indiana; a discussion followed, in which many of the problems of the local societies were
                    considered.
            A special meeting of the Indiana historical society was also held Friday afternoon at which time a
                    memorial tribute was read to the memory of the late Delavan Smith. It will be recalled by readers of
                    this Magazine that Mr. Smith left to the Indiana historical society a cash bequest
                    of $150,000 and his valuable private library on Americana.
            
            On Friday evening the Indiana federation of clubs had charge of the program. A talk by Mrs. W. J.
                    Torrance, president, on Co-operation of the Indiana Federation of Clubs with State Historical Work
                    followed by a pageant on The Story of the Fauntleroy Home, given by the Woman's Research
                    club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , comprised the evening s program.
            The Saturday morning program consisted of a talk by Mrs. Kate Milner Rabb on the 
                        Lincoln
                     memorial association; a paper by Senator Roscoe Kiper of Boonville, on 
                        Lincoln
                    's Boyhood Days In Indiana; an address by Hamlin Garland on Pioneer
                    Reminiscences; and was concluded by a discussion led by Professor Shambaugh.
            The program Saturday afternoon consisted of a talk by J. P. Dunn, secretary of the Indiana historical
                    society, on Early Northern Indiana History; a talk by B. J. Griswold of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on A Century of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; and an address by George R. Fox of Three Oaks, 
                        Michigan
                    , on The Educational Museum.
            The annual dinner by the society of Indiana pioneers was given Saturday evening followed by a program
                    which consisted of: Greetings from Dr. Shambaugh; Personal Reminiscences of Indiana Authors, by
                    Hamlin Garland; two readings by Miss Isabelle Garland, daughter of Hamlin Garland, and the singing
                    of pioneer songs by the audience.
            A program committee consisting of Thomas James de la Hunt of 
                        Cannelton
                    , Miss Vida Newsom of 
                        Columbus
                    , and Mrs. Sam Matthews of 
                        Tipton
                    , was appointed to make arrangements for the Fifth annual history conference in
                    December, 1923.
            That there is a rapidly increasing interest manifested in the study of local history is shown by the
                    number of new county historical societies that are being organized in Indiana. There are today
                    fifty-five county historical societies in the state. Membership in these local societies numbers all
                    the way from twenty-five to thirty in the smaller counties up to more than two hundred in the larger
                    ones. Since the last issue of this Magazine societies have been organized in the
                    following counties:
            The 
                        Posey County
                     historical society was organized November 24, 1922, with the following officers: James
                    H. Blackburn,  president; Miss Lola Nolte, secretary and
                    curator; Mrs. George Ford, treasurer; and Miss Caroline Crease, genealogist; vice-presidents, Mrs.
                    B. O. Hanby, Black township; Mrs. Nora Fretageot, Harmony township; Mrs. James Gudgel, Smith
                    township; J. P. Cox, Center township; Patrick H. Lynn, Marrs township; James Morlock, Point
                    township; Mrs. Charles Miller, Bethel township; Rev. Beach Robb and Charles Raben, Robinson
                    township; Mrs. R. E. Wilson, Lynn township.
            The 
                        Sullivan County
                     historical society was organized November 25, 1922, with the following officers: John
                    C. Chaney, president; Rachael K. Harris, secretary; Dan Helms, treasurer; vice-presidents: Mrs.
                    Bessie L. Riggs, 
                        Hamilton
                     township; Miss Mabel Brewer, Gill township; W. H. Thomas, Fair-bank township; J. M.
                    Nash, Haddon township; Mrs. Feldman, Cass township; Miss Irma Rounds, Turman township; J. G.
                    Burnett, 
                        Jackson
                     township; Dave Newkirk, Jefferson township; A. A. Carter, Curry township.
            The Scott County historical society was organized the same day, November 25, 1922, and the following
                    officers elected: Miss Permelia Boyd, president; C#2 H. Gamble, vice-president; William Storen,
                    secretary; Miss Kate McClain, treasurer; vice-presidents: Miss Alice Gamble, Finley township; E. A.
                    Gladden, Johnson township; C. F. Harrod, Jennings township, Jesse Storen, 
                        Lexington
                     township; Miss Ella Dins-more, 
                        Vienna
                     township.
            December 3 the 
                        Benton
                    -
                        Fountain
                    -Warren historical society was organized. Following the example of the eight pocket
                    counties the three counties above mentioned have united in a tri-county organization. The following
                    officers were elected: J. W. Whicker of 
                        Fountain county
                    , president; Mrs. Della Reed of 
                        Fountain county
                    , vice-president; Jesse Birch of 
                        Benton county
                    , 2nd vice-president; Mrs. Clara C. Smith of 
                        Warren county
                    , 3rd vice-president; Mrs. Ella L. Stephenson of 
                        Warren county
                    , secretary-treasurer.
            In addition to the tri-county organization there was recently a local historical society in West 
                        Lebanon
                     of which Mrs. Ella L. Stephenson is president; Mrs. M. A. Judy, Vice-president: and
                    Mrs. S. G. Pomeroy, secretary. The object of the  society is to
                    co-operate with the tri-county organization in working in the field of local history.
            January 16, 1923, the 
                        Wabash County
                     historical society was organized, and the following officers were elected: Mrs. R. F.
                    Lutz, president; Dr. P. G. Moore, vice-president; Mrs. Elmer Burns, secretary; Ellis Bloomer,
                    treasurer.
            January 9, 1823, the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     historical society was organized with the following officers: J. O. Beck, president;
                    Miss Stella Fox, secretary; Mrs. C. Q. Erisman, treasurer.
            The 
                        Vigo County
                     historical society was organized January 18, 1923, with the following officers: Judge
                    D. W. Henry, president; George Scott, vice-president; Mrs. Sallie C. Hughes, secretary; Miss Grace
                    Davis, assistant secretary; Miss Margaret Markle, treasurer; Miss Florence Crawford, genealogist;
                    Miss Anna Sankey, curator.
            An interesting historical find is described by Mrs. Harriet F. Ferree of Mauckport, Harrison county,
                    as follows: 
                        On July 9, 1863, when General Morgan crossed the Ohio river into Indiana
                            he set fire to the boat Alice Dean and sank it one hundred yards above Buck creek. Many
                            curiosity seekers have explored this scene for years to obtain relics. Many pieces of
                            timbers from the hull of the boat have been carried away, but nothing of more value has been
                            unearthed until last Sunday, October 8, when Marion and Norval Frank and Virgil Applegate,
                            of Mauckport, visited the scene and unearthed the tool chest of this boat. It contained the
                            following articles: 3 locks, 8 different kinds of hammers, bolt cutters, a die, 5 pairs of
                            smith tongs, one large four-foot wrench, one compass in good condition, 1 square, numerous
                            wedges, one rachet, one brace and bit, a large number of nuts, taps of different kinds, a
                            crowbar, babbet metal, fire bricks, large and small sizes and many other small articles.
                            They sent a hammer to the 
                                Harrison County
                             historical society of the county for a relic.
                    
            
            Saturday November 11, 1922, the Lone Tree chapter of the Daughters of the American revolution, 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, dedicated a memorial boulder to Col. Thomas Hendricks, which was presented to
                    the city of 
                        Greensburg
                     by Mrs. John N. Carey of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a granddaughter of Colonel Hendricks. The marker was unveiled by three granddaughters
                    of the donor,  Martha and Barbara Haines and Ervin Moxley. The
                    following is a copy of the inscription on the bronze tablet: 
                        1822
                        1922
                        Col. Thomas Hendricks, Veteran of the War of 1812 Founded this town in 1821 He
                            built the first cabin and donated 100 acres of ground to the new town. On June 14, 1833,
                            Elizabeth Trimble Hendricks Wife of Col. Thomas Hendricks named 
                                Greensburg
                             in honor of her native town in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Erected by the Daughters of the American Revolution.
                    
            
            Sunday afternoon, November 19, on the banks of Offield creek, five and one-half miles southwest of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , the 
                        Montgomery County
                     historical society held a dedicatory program in honor of William Offield, the first
                    settler in 
                        Montgomery county
                    . Some forty years ago, in 1881, a boulder was first placed on the site where the
                    Offield cabin stood. At the meeting November 19 Dumont Kennedy, now president of the 
                        Montgomery County
                     historical society, and son of Peter S. Kennedy, who placed the first marker to William
                    Offield, presided at the meeting, and told an interesting history of William Offield and his pioneer
                    life. The inscription on the boulder which is now embedded in a concrete base, is very simple and
                    reads: 
                        William Offield Settled here, Feb. 1821.
                    
            
            Membership in the Indiana historical society is now one thousand and twenty-six, according to the
                    report of Lucy M. Elliott, assistant secretary of the society. This is the first time in its history
                    that the society has passed the one thousand mark. 
                        A meeting of the Francis Vigo chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, took place
                            yesterday in the William Henry Harrison house in 
                                Vincennes
                            . The session was held in the council chamber where Gen. Harrison held his
                            conferences. Among the relics recently contributed which were displayed at the meeting were
                            three spinning wheels, 100  years old, with the flax
                            ready for spinning, given by James Fries and a Chair given by Mrs. W. H. Watts which is 100
                            years old. Miss Mary Brittain gave to the museum a Spanish dollar, 128 years old, which was
                            found in an Indian mound in this county a short time ago.—
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 24, 1922.
                    
            
         
      
      
         
      
   
