
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 53, Issue 4, pages 355-498. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:53+issue:4+year:1957&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Rise of Albert J. Beveridge to the 
                        United States
                     Senate
            John Braeman∗
            
            "The great day of which I have, since boyhood, been dreaming is nearly upon us,"
                    noted Albert J. Beveridge shortly after the beginning of the conflict with 
                        Spain
                     in 1898." For many years I have been talking, writing and speaking of the time
                    when the Republic must embark upon its imperial policy… . But now, all at once, the
                    fierce light of war reveals to the American people that this policy which I felt would be delayed
                    for years is upon us, and so it is that, for the first time in my life, I wish I were in public
                    position where I could partly shape the events which are now upon us." But distant from the
                    seats of power, he feared lest he idly sit, a spectator from afar upon the course of events.
                    "It may be," Beveridge added hopefully, "that there is still a sufficient
                    lack of statesmanship to defer this thing eight or ten years," and in that case he should
                    have his chance at shaping the national destiny.1
            
            But events moved faster than Beveridge dreamed, for he had the self-discipline and impatience of
                    ambition, the will and energy that bred success. A plow boy at twelve, a railroad hand with a
                    section gang at fourteen, a logger and teamster at sixteen, Beveridge had from youth been inspired
                    by dreams of greatness, by an unquenchable faith in his future. Believing that knowledge meant power
                    in this struggle of life, he graduated from DePauw University in 1885 on his first step upward into
                    the world of affairs. Paying his way through college by dint of sacrifice and struggle, 
                  
                     ∗ John Braeman is a graduate student in the department of
                            history, Johns Hopkins University, 
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            and is writing a doctoral thesis on Albert J. Beveridge.
                  
                     1 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, May 10, 1898, Beveridge Papers,
                            Library of Congress.
               
                     Beveridge found that the hardships of his youth had prepared
                    the foundations for the achievements of his mature years. Throughout his future career he displayed
                    that strength of purpose which doubted not his powers. "This absolutely certain
                    inevitableness of my prevailing," Beveridge noted reflectively in his uncompleted
                    autobiography, "… has been a power in my life a faith elemental, primordial,
                    even fanatic if you like."2
            
            The choice of a career at the law came naturally enough. "Lawyers were the biggest men in
                    our own and neighboring counties," recalled Beveridge, "and they were regarded as
                    a very superior type of human being." In the fluid society of a rapidly industrializing
                    America, law provided the smoothest avenue along which a man without capital could rise to wealth
                    and power, and Beveridge followed that path trod by so many ambitious youths of the day. "I
                    would give my clients the very best that was in me," he resolved on beginning independent
                    practice in 1899. "I would put my life into every case."3
                    Thorough preparation, a phenomenal memory, and a remarkable ability to master detail made him
                    devastating in the court room, and Beveridge climbed rapidly to a position of leadership at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     bar.4
            
            But politics remained Beveridge's first love, and even before leaving college he had
                    ventured forth into the political fray. "I was a partisan Republican of that white hot kind
                    that in those days resulted from being the son and brother of Union soldiers," he recalled.
                    Hailing Republican victory as a mark of loyalty to the Union and to the men who fought and died for
                    its preservation, Beveridge scornfully denounced 
                  
                     2 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era (
                                Boston
                            , 1932), 1–78, remains the best published account of
                            Beveridge's pre-senatorial career. Deposited among the Beveridge Papers in the
                            Library of Congress are notes prepared by Beveridge in preparation for an autobiography
                            which he never completed, and these notes are a valuable source for understanding the man.
                            The quotation is drawn from this source, which will hereafter be cited as MS Autobiography.
                  
                     3 MS Autobiography, Beveridge Papers. For details of his legal
                            apprenticeship, see Russel M. Seeds (ed.), History of the Republican Party of
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), 264–272. This biographical sketch is unsigned, but clearly
                            draws upon first-hand information.
                  
                     4 By 1893 Beveridge estimated his to be "the second best
                            single practice in town," Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, November 22, 1893, Shaffer
                            Papers, Indiana State Library. An appraisal of Beveridge as a lawyer by a friendly jurist,
                            Federal District Judge John H. Baker, is in Toasts, Given at Dinner in Honor of
                                Albert J. Beveridge (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), 17. The dinner was given by his friend, Charles C. Coffin, on February
                            13, 1899.
               
                     the Democracy for its disloyalty to that sacred cause.5 But more than these memories of struggle and sacrifice for the flag inspired
                    his devotion to the Grand Old Party. America was rich and fast growing richer. No nation in the
                    world offered such opportunities, and his own personal experience seemed but confirmation of this
                    truth. Rejoicing in the multiplying proofs of the nation's wealth, he suffered few of the
                    nagging doubts afflicting the millions whom this prosperity had not so benefited. Life had been good
                    to him, and Beveridge, favored by fortune, discerned no radical flaw in the acquisitive America of
                    the years following the Civil War.6
            
            "I shall, at all times and ever, be more than happy," he assured a party manager,
                    "to subordinate my own personal desires to what may seem to the best interests of that
                    great party, upon whose success hangs the welfare of the country and therefore the future of
                    civilization itself."7 So in every campaign, beginning from the 1884 Elaine-
                        Cleveland
                     contest during his college days, Beveridge stumped the state from end to end on behalf
                    of the G.O.P. He was ever a partisan, lush, prolix, uncurbed in his exuberance, too profuse in
                    eulogies of his party, too bitter with its opponents. But an age finding its model in the
                    flamboyant, impassioned appeals of the years following the Civil War thrilled to his words.8
            
            Popularity as a Republican stump speaker drew speaking invitations from beyond Indiana, and by 1898
                    Beveridge had gained a national reputation. But more importantly, that campaign activity opened a
                    path to political preferment. So well known had Beveridge become politically that the party leaders
                    proffered him the 1894 Republican nomination for the highly lucrative attorney-generalship of the
                    state. Based upon the fee system rather than a regular salary, this office 
                  
                     5 MS Autobiography, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     6 MS Campaign Speeches dated 1888, 1890,1892, and 1894, Beveridge
                            Papers. A firm protectionist, Beveridge insisted that Republican success meant prosperity
                            speeded forward, whereas Democratic victory ensured disaster, bankruptcy, and poverty.
                            Reflecting the same social outlook, Beveridge responded during the 1896 campaign with a
                            near-hysterical denunciation of Bryan standing with "his goblet of silver filled
                            with revolution's blood red wine," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Inter-Ocean, October 30, 1896.
                  
                     7 Beveridge to Louis T. Michener, September 17, 1892, Michener Papers,
                            Library of Congress.
                  
                     8 As a young stump speaker, Beveridge waved the "bloody
                            shirt" with abandon, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, October 7, 11, 1886. A valuable analysis of his oratory is Herold
                            T. Ross, "The Oratorical Principles and Practice of Beveridge," Archives of Speech, I, No. 4 (September, 1936), 99–168.
               
                     paid from thirty to forty thousand dollars a year. Beveridge
                    was tempted by so glittering a prize. But fearful lest that place be considered full reward for all
                    the services he had done in the past and all he could do in the future, he finally declined the
                    honor. "It is firing my gun off too soon," Beveridge concluded. "I think
                    that there may be something higher ahead for me—but I shall not care even for that unless
                    I can [do] good for my country—good in the better and nobler sense."9
            
            The outburst of the Spanish-American war fired his dreams of political leadership. Destiny, Beveridge
                    felt, had marked him to guide the nation's imperial future. "For myself, if fate
                    could lay before me the choice of a place in history as a free gift of the gods," he
                    exclaimed, "I would rather be the forming and shap[ing mind] which is to mark out our
                    foreign policy from now on than to have been the greatest statesman of the period of the Civil War.
                    For, after all, the latter will be more or less local; the former will be universal."10 The 
                        United States
                     Senate promised that chance, and for Beveridge the hour to try his hand had
                        struck."11
            
            Since 1882, the Democrats had retained control of the Indiana legislature and had maintained in the 
                        United States
                     Senate two party stalwarts, Daniel W. Voorhees and David Turpie. But the 1894 campaign,
                    held during the midst of the depression-racked 
                        Cleveland
                     administration, marked the end of the Democratic ascendancy. The Bryan-McKinley contest
                    completed the rout, and the Republican-dominated legislature in 1897 replaced Voorhees with the
                    Republican Charles W. Fairbanks. Turpie's term would expire in 1899, and the legislature
                    selected in November, 1898, would choose his successor. Renewed prosperity indicated another G.O.P.
                    sweep in the fall election,12 and, confident of a second Republican 
                  
                     9 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, Novemher 20, 22, 1893, Shaffer Papers.
                  
                     10 Beveridge to John Temple Graves, July 13, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     11 Beveridge to George W. Perkins, July 14, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     12 It should be noted that Democratic power in Indiana during these
                            years was not as unchallenged as the above statement seemingly indicates. The Republicans
                            did win the Indiana House of Representatives in 1886, and two years later elected the
                            governor and carried the state for Benjamin Harrison for president, although the Democrats
                            managed until 1894 to control the General Assembly on joint ballot for the election of U.S.
                            Senators. For a good summary of the politics of these years, see Seeds, History
                                of the Republican Party of Indiana, 56–87.
               
                     in the 
                        United States
                     Senate from Indiana, Beveridge laid his plans carefully to ensure he should be that
                    Republican.
            At a meeting toward the end of May, 1898, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     law office of James W. Noel, a close personal friend, Beveridge's candidacy
                    had its beginnings. Present were Noel, Frank Littleton, Larz Whitcomb, and Alfred M. Gloss-brenner,
                    longtime friends of the hopeful candidate to whom Beveridge bluntly announced his dream of the 
                        United States
                     Senatorship. His friends were stunned for the moment by the daring of the scheme, but
                    after considerable discussion boldness proved their ally. During the previous session of the
                    legislature, Littleton had served with such distinction in the Indiana House of Representatives that
                    he had planned to seek renomination in the hope of reaching the speakership. Now, following the
                    discussion, Noel, Whitcomb, and Gloss-brenner determined to run for that body in the dual plan of
                    contributing to the selection of Littleton to the speakership and of Beveridge to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. A few days later they persuaded Fred Joss, another young lawyer of their
                    acquaintance, to seek a seat in the Indiana Senate in furtherance of their design.13
            
            Beveridge had made no mistake in his choice of followers. Though youthful, these friends of Beveridge
                    had gained by 1898 a place of prominence in the life of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , insuring invaluable support. Particularly had they been active among that group of
                    younger Republicans, centered in the 
                        Marion
                     Club, who were rapidly becoming the dominant force in 
                        Marion County
                     Republicanism.14 Consequently, their successful bids for the
                    desired nominations aroused scant notice, and no hint of Beveridge's candidacy reached the
                        public.15 A loyal core of support had been thereby secured for the
                    forthcoming legislature, and, during the campaign which 
                  
                     13 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, April 18, 1905, Beveridge Papers,
                            recalls that in May, 1898, the plans were first laid for his senatorial campaign. Details
                            are provided in interviews with James W. Noel and Fred A. Joss, as cited by Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 79.
                  
                     14 Biographical sketches of the 
                                Marion County
                             five are in Seeds, History of the Republican Party of
                            Indiana, 140–142, 153–154, 280–283.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 15, August 4, 1898.
               
                     followed, this group provided that day to day leadership so
                    needed by the Beveridge cause.16
            
            In furthering these plans, Beveridge realized that the chairmanship of the Republican state
                    convention to be held that August promised an unrivaled chance for placing his name prominently
                    before the party faithful gathered from throughout the state. His advisers, he explained to a
                    friendly politician, "regard it of great importance that I meet the sixteen hundred
                    delegates face to face in the active work of presiding over the Convention."17 But that chance was denied him. "Fairbanks insisted on being the whole
                    thing," Beveridge complained, and the Senator presided in person during the entire session.
                    "Had I conducted the Convention today," he lamented, "I would have, in
                    this single day, done seventy-five percent of the work which will be on our shoulders this Fall and
                    Winter." A serious setback, Beveridge felt, and "my fellows here are furious and
                    bitterly so."18
            
            But Beveridge and his friends remained undaunted and quietly continued their activity. "We
                    ought to go slow and not get any more people in this thing just now," urged a confidant in
                    early September.19 That should be the plan, Beveridge acknowledged, but he
                    warned that his friends must continue their behind-the-scenes activity.20 Nor
                    did Beveridge on his campaign tours in the fall for the Republican ticket neglect to sound the
                    situation. "Men come to me every day," he reported, "and voluntarily
                    pledge themselves to me without my stating to them that I am in any wise a candidate."21 "If things go on as they are," he exclaimed jubilantly,
                    "even Mr. Fairbanks will not be able to head things off."22
            
            The November elections resulting in a G.O.P. landslide insured a Republican successor to the
                    Democratic Turpie 
                  
                     16 Charles F. Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the
                            Senate," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI (1940),
                            127–128. An active participant in the Beveridge campaign, Remy read this paper
                            before the Century Club on February 26, 1936, and it provides valuable sidelights by an
                            insider on Beveridge's victory. Before delivering the paper, Remy communicated with
                            another leading participant, Harry S. New, and was "pleased that you think my
                            recollections of the Beveridge campaign are fairly accurate," Charles F. Remy to
                            Harry S. New, August 14, 1935, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     17 Beveridge to Perry Heath, July 18, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     18 Beveridge to John C. Wingate, August 4, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     19 Albert M. Glossbrenner to Beveridge, September 4, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     20 Beveridge to Albert M. Glossbrenner, September 7, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     21 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, October 13, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     22 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, October 17, 1898, ibid.
                  
               
                     when the General Assembly convened in January,23 and now the conflicting senatorial ambitions came to the fore. "The Legislature is
                    Republican," Beveridge wired his close friend, 
                        Chicago
                     publisher John Shaffer. "The real work now begins."24 "I do not propose to make a blustering fight," he commented to another
                    friend, "but am going to put up the strongest, most vigorous and most unceasing contest you
                    ever heard of. It shall, however, be dignified throughout. It was decided today that my personal
                    work was done and that from now on my friends must do the rest of the work for me."25
            
            Promptly following the election Beveridge made formal public announcement of his candidacy for the 
                        United States
                     Senatorship, and his friends opened headquarters at the Denison Hotel to greet the
                    politicians flocking into 
                        Indianapolis
                     from throughout the state.26 John C. Wingate, of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , was placed in charge, and a wise choice he proved. "Wingate was certainly a
                    character," recalled a contemporary, "popular, unsurpassed as a story teller and
                    greeter, widely known."27 He had masterminded the 1896 nomination of
                    James A. Mount for governor, and now he placed his not inconsiderable talents as a political manager
                    at Beveridge's service.28 A clever and experienced practical
                    politician, he could particularly reassure men of a similar breed that his candidate harbored no
                    dangerous designs. "Mr. Beveridge," Wingate calmed a 
                        South Bend
                     political leader, "is one of the original objectors to Civil Service as it is
                    now administered and is still thoroughly of his original convictions… . You need have no
                    fears of Mr. Beveridge disappointing you on this proposition."29
            
            
               
                  23 John A. Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J.
                        Beveridge," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV (1928),
                        147–150.
               
                  24 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, November 9, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  25 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, November 10, 1898, ibid.
               
               
                  26
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 12, 1898.
               
                  27 Inspired by Remy's article, Harry S. New recorded sometime
                        during 1936 his recollections of Beveridge's election to the Senate in 1899, and a copy
                        is filed among his papers at the Indiana State Library. These recollections will henceforth be
                        cited as the Harry S. New MS.
               
                  28 Seeds, History of the Republican Party of Indiana,
                        151–153.
               
                  29 John C. Wingate to Schuyler Colfax, Jr., December 19, 1898, Beveridge
                        Papers.
            
            
            But few gave Beveridge's candidacy much, chance, and indeed many were affronted at the
                    boldness of his course. Barely thirty-six years of age, he struck many as unduly ambitious. Let him
                    season a while, they urged, before trying for so high an honor.30 The odds
                    against his candidacy were formidable, but he had that supreme self-confidence which inspired his
                    followers. "I note your `hope'," he replied to a friend. "As
                    Hamlet says, `Nay it is not seems, it is.' So in this matter, it is not a question of
                    `hope'; it is a question of `will be.' Please remember Beaconsfield's
                    motto: `Nothing is impossible to the brain and will of man.'"31
            
            Beveridge's candidacy had its handicaps, and foremost appeared to be his lack of support
                    among the more prominent leaders of the state.32 But in reality that proved a blessing in disguise
                    considering the bitter factional rivalry prevailing within the Republican party at the time. A
                    deep-seated split, this ill feeling had its beginning in the candidacy of Benjamin Harrison for the
                    1888 presidential nomination. Most Indiana Republicans followed the lead of John C. New, publisher
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal, in supporting Harrison. Reading like a who's who of Indiana
                    Republicanism, the Harrison group included the dominant party leadership of that day. But
                    Harrison's foremost rival, Judge Walter Q. Gresham, lacked not his Indiana supporters, and
                    a fierce struggle ensued for control of the party machinery. A politically ambitious young attorney,
                    Charles W. Fairbanks, led the Gresham forces, and, ably assisted by a group of rising young
                    politicians, laid the foundations for a rival political 
                  
                     30 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                            80–81; Coffin,"The Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge,"
                            152.
                  
                     31 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, June 17, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     32 Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the Senate,"
                            128. The only Indiana politician of first rank who rallied to Beveridge's side was
                            Perry Heath, First Assistant Postmaster-General and McKinley's chief patronage
                            dispenser, Beveridge to George W. Perkins, July 14, 1898, Beveridge Papers. But there is
                            good reason to believe that Heath was simply using Beveridge as a stalking horse for his own
                            ambitions. In the words of his chief clerk, Heath was" not disposed, just now, to
                            make an open avowal of his candidacy. If he can hold some members uncommitted for a while
                            that will be sufficient," George Allen to David W. Henry, November 22, 1898, Henry
                            Papers, Indiana State Library. Eventually, Beveridge suspected the double game Heath was
                            playing, and sharply demanded that he squelch those persistent rumors about his availability
                            and" come back here and take his coat off like the rest of our mutual friends for
                            me," Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, November 29, 1898, Beveridge Papers. But the
                            evidence does not indicate that Heath in any way played a significant part in
                            Beveridge's selection.
               
                     machine.33 Therein lay the roots of the
                    factional conflict of the next decade.
            From that preliminary struggle the Harrison forces emerged triumphant, and the General's
                    nomination at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention meant his friends' continued predominance within the party. But
                    Fairbanks remained undis-couraged, and awaited his day as he quietly spread his personal following
                    throughout the state. Despite the federal patronage in the hands of his foes, Fairbanks had matured
                    his plans so carefully that by 1892 he had become a power to be reckoned with in Indiana politics.
                    Shrewdly supporting Harrison for renomination at the 
                        Minneapolis
                     convention, Fairbanks further solidified his position in Indiana, and Republican defeat
                    that year provided the chance for which he had been preparing. Displaced from their federal
                    patronage by deserving Democrats under the incoming 
                        Cleveland
                     administration, the Harrison leaders faded into the background, and Charles W.
                    Fairbanks, spending freely of his personal fortune to rebuild the party, had by 1894 grasped the
                    reins of Indiana Republican leadership.34
            
            In 1896, a determined bid by the Harrison forces designed to oust Fairbanks' friend, John K.
                    Gowdy, from the chairmanship of the Republican State Committee failed by a narrow margin,35 and Fairbanks promptly sought to reinsure his future dominance by hastening
                    aboard the Hanna-McKinley bandwagon.36 That course heightened factional feeling
                    to a fever pitch. Harrison's friends charged that McKinley had 
                  
                     33 The Harrison leaders included Roscoe O. Hawkins, W. A. Ketcham,
                            Riley McKeen, Nick Filbeck, George W. Steele, and Robert S. Taylor, whereas
                            Fairbanks' chief lieutenants were Joseph Kealing, Al Wishard, and Martin Hugg.
                            Valuable in this connection are Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the
                            Senate," 124–126, and Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Q.
                                Gresham, 1832–1895 (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 566–601.
                  
                     34 Fairbanks' bid for the Senatorship in 1897 occasioned a
                            number of articles reviewing the factional controversies of the preceding years, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 16, 1896, January 13, 1897. Further sidelights are given
                            by the former secretary of the Republican State Committee from 1894 to 1896, Seeds, History of the Republican Party of Indiana, 65–84.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 22, 28, 29, 1896. E. H. Nebeker, Gowdy's
                            challenger, had been a leading Harrison supporter in 1888, and had been rewarded by
                            appointment in 1891 as Treasurer of the 
                                United States
                            , Seeds, History of the Republican Party of Indiana, 236.
                  
                     36 Fairbanks' friends, Addison C. Harris and Joseph Kealing,
                            took the lead in forming the Indiana McKinley organization, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 26, 1896.
               
                     intrigued with the anti-Harrison forces at the 1892 national
                    convention to defeat the General's renomination, and they were determined to resist the 
                        Ohio
                     man's candidacy.37 But the Gowdy-Fairbanks group, closely
                    in touch with Mark Hanna, remained firm in their determination to bind Indiana to the McKinley
                        standard.38
            
            Though Harrison had renounced aspirations for a third presidential nomination,39
                    his friends sought control of the Indiana delegation to the 1896 national convention on his behalf
                    as a favorite son. Some foreseeing a deadlock hoped that Harrison's name presented at the
                    crucial moment could sweep the convention.40 Most simply wished to bargain
                    Indiana's support for generous recognition from the successful candidate.41 But the Gowdy-Fairbanks group forced through the state convention instructions for
                    McKinley, and they gained the credit with the newly dominant national party leadership.42 The Harrison men were furious and sharply assailed their rivals.43 There is likely to be a very nasty mess," Harrison's former
                    campaign manager warned a young friend about McKinley at the 1896 national convention, "and
                    I don't want you connected with it, particularly as a supporter of a man whose nomination
                    will be succeeded by scandal after scandal… . My dear boy, I want you to realize that our
                    party has never yet sold a nomination wholly or partially."44
            
            McKinley's nomination meant the continued control of the party in Indiana by the Fairbanks
                    following. The selection of Fairbanks himself as temporary chairman of the national convention at 
                        St. Louis
                     publicly demonstrated his closeness to the next administration, and Indianians eager
                    for patronage remembered the hint.45 Lest they forget, Perry Heath, chief
                    patronage dispenser for the President-elect, arrived 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., February 25, 1896.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., April 14, 22, 30, May 1, 1896.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., February 4, 1896.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., May 2, 1896.
                  
                     41 Letter by Harry S. New, dated February 13, 1930, in explanation of
                            certain items among his papers, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 6, 7, 8, 1896.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., May 29, June 1, 1896.
                  
                     44 Louis T. Michener to Beveridge, March 17, 1896, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     45 For a biographical sketch of Fairbanks stressing this point of
                            closeness to the McKinley administration, see Seeds, History of the Republican
                                Party of Indiana, 114–118.
               
                     in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during January, 1897, when the newly-chosen Republican legislature had for its
                    consideration a successor to the Democrat Voorhees.46 Thus aided, Fairbanks
                    overwhelmed the resistance of his dispirited rivals in his bid for the 
                        United States
                     Senatorship,47 and the new Senator, holding the federal patronage
                    in his hands, reigned supreme over Indiana Republicanism. Discredited and purged, the Harrison
                    leaders found banishment into political limbo their lot.48 "I see the
                    possibilities are that a Mr. Leighty, late a member of Congress, will be Pension Agent at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," complained one."Was Mr. Leighty a Gresham Republican in
                        1888?"49
            
            In light of this situation the Beveridge hopes were apparent. The bitterest feeling had been roused,
                    and neither dared allow its rival to prevail in the 1899 senatorial contest. Therein lay
                    Beveridge's chance. In the 1888 pre-nomination campaign, he had rallied behind the Gresham
                    standard, doing yeoman work in that losing cause.50 But during the years which
                    followed, Beveridge remained aloof from the Fairbanks forces, and, falling under the influence of
                    Harrison's manager, Louis T. Michener, became an enthusiastic admirer of the
                        General's.51 That background made him an ideal compromise choice,
                    neutral between the rival followings. Particularly promising seemed this hope, considering that due
                    to his 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 12, 1897, notes the presence of Heath in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Fairbanks' behalf. His chief clerk recalled later how
                            "Perry Heath, acting on the permission of President-elect McKinley, went to 
                                Indianapolis
                             and swung around enough legislators to insure Fairbanks'
                            election," George Allen to David W. Henry, December 19, 1898, Henry Papers.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 13, 1897.
                  
                     48 Gowdy went to 
                                Paris
                             as consul-general, Al Wishard, a longtime Fairbanks friend and manager of his
                            campaign for the Senate, became 
                                United States
                             Attorney for the District of Indiana, and lesser lights loyal to the new party
                            leadership received suitable rewards, Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
                            Complaints about Fairbanks' patronage policies are set forth in letters of Harrison
                            adherents, James O'Brien to Robert S. Taylor, January 21, 1897, and Calvin Diggs to
                            Robert S. Taylor, August 4, 1897, Taylor Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     49 James O'Brien to Robert S. Taylor, March 20, 1897, Taylor
                            Papers.
                  
                     50 Gresham, Life of Walter Q. Gresham, II, 580, 588,
                            594.
                  
                     51 Beveridge to Louis T. Michener, June 10, 1892, Michener Papers.
                            Indeed, during his campaign for the Senate, Beveridge sought to strengthen his position with
                            the Harrison faction by writing a long letter assuring the General of his "profound
                            regard," Beveridge to Benjamin Harrison, January 3, 1899, Harrison Papers, Library
                            of Congress.
               
                     youth the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate had escaped unscarred from the factional ill-will surrounding the more
                    prominent party leaders. "The fact that you are the second choice of the men from nearly
                    all the districts," noted a friend hopefully, "means that you will grow as soon as
                    any weaken, which is inevitable when it comes to the acquisition of votes."52
            
            In the interval, Beveridge lost no chance to present his candidacy in a favorable light. To a
                    hesitant politician he exclaimed sharply: 
                        All I have to say, if fourteen years of service to the party, paying my own expenses and
                            making contributions to the campaign fund (more in this last campaign than all the rest of
                            the candidates for the Senate and Senator Fairbanks combined contributed) without ever
                            having received, desired or asked for anything, does not entitle me to greater support than
                            those who have been perpetual candidates for office, who have not been in the service of the
                            party but a fraction of the time that I have and who have received reward, both in office
                            and money, then I do not understand political obligations.53
                  
                    
            
            Nor did his youthfulness, Beveridge insisted, disqualify his candidacy for that high honor. Learning
                    that Clem Stude-baker, the 
                        South Bend
                     wagon manufacturer, expressed doubts about a beardless youth of thirty-six for 
                        United States
                     Senator, he hastily replied."Let him know," he urged his friend
                    Shaffer, 
                        that Thomas Jefferson was only thirty-three years of age when he wrote the Declaration of
                            Independence; that 
                                Hamilton
                             was only thirty-two when he was Secretary of the Treasury; that Andrew Jackson
                            was in the Senate at thirty; Albert Gallatin… at thirty-two; Henry
                            Clay… at thirty.54
                  
                    
            
            Perhaps more importantly, Beveridge's youthfulness had its advantages for his candidacy.
                    Running as the self-styled representative of the rising generation of Republicans, he had a
                    particular appeal for the younger members of the party. "I don't know what to
                    think of the Beveridge situation," reported an experienced politician to a rival candidate.
                    "If there are as many young men in the General Assembly from the State at large as there
                    are from 
                        Marion County
                    , he will be a very formidable quantity in the legislature."55
            
            
               
                  52 Robert E. Mansfield to Beveridge, November 19, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  53 Beveridge to E. H. Wolcott, December 15, 1898, ibid.
               
               
                  54 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, December 18, 1898, ibid.
               
               
                  55 William A. Ketcham to Robert S. Taylor, September 3, 1898, Taylor
                        Papers.
            
            
            At the same time, nothing contributed so much to give an air of solidity to Beveridge's
                    candidacy as the mobilization of a number of leading business men behind him. His speeches had long
                    been in harmony with business aspirations, and now a group of substantial 
                        Indianapolis
                     manufacturers, merchants, and bankers formed a Business Men's Association for
                    Beveridge. At first confined to the city, the group decided to extend its organization throughout
                    the state. Under the leadership of David M. Parry, president of the Manufacturers'
                    Association of Indiana and vice-president of the National Association of Manufacturers, a meeting of
                    more than one hundred business leaders from all parts of Indiana was held on December 28. The group
                    voted endorsement of Beveridge's candidacy for the Senate as best serving the interests of
                    the business community, and plans were laid for providing further support.56
            
            A few days later, on January 3, as the legislators began flocking into the city, Beveridge's
                    business friends formally opened their headquarters at the Denison to canvass on his behalf.57 From their efforts followed a steady stream of pro-Beveridge appeals flooding
                    into wavering legislators from business firms throughout Indiana.58 "In
                    the last campaign," boasted Beveridge shortly after his election, 
                        it is a literal truth that heads of the greatest business enterprises left their business,
                            some of them for two weeks, without a moment of attention. This included great manufacturers
                            like D. M. Parry, the biggest cart manufacturer in the world; C. F. Smith, one of the
                            greatest bicycle manufacturers in the world; the managers of our big department stores,
                            etc., etc., et cetera, ad infinitum.59
                  
                    
            
            But the issue rested in the hands of professional politicians, not business leaders, and most were
                    dubious about Beveridge's candidacy from the start. Widespread resentment prevailed at what
                    many out-of-the-city people considered the domination of state politics by 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Beveridge, as the sole candidate from that city, suffered the 
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 28, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 29, 1898; Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of
                            Albert J. Beveridge," 155.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 4, 1899.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 5, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 5, 10, 1899.
                  
                     59 Beveridge to David Graham Phillips, February 2, 1899, Beveridge
                            Papers.
               
                     full brunt of this feeling. Complained the Worthington Times,
                    
                        The hoggish propensities of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Republicans are well exemplified in the announcement… that A. J.
                            Beveridge, of that city, would be a candidate for 
                                United States
                             Senator… . 
                                Indianapolis
                             already has one Senator, and the Republicans of the State outside of the city
                            will not take kindly to Mr. Beveridge's candidacy.60
                  
                    
            
            Wingate, a rural politician, reinforced by Sid Conger, of 
                        Shelby County
                    , and John R. Bonnell, of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , sought to allay the feeling throughout the state against the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate, and they played no small part in gaining Beveridge support from outside the
                        city.61 But that resentment remained dangerous to his cause, and Beveridge
                    realized fully the difficulty. "Their only hope of defeating me," he acknowledged,
                    "is that I live in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That is my great obstacle. But it is believed by absolutely every one of my friends
                    that we can overcome it."62
            
            The General Assembly convened January 15, 1899, and the rival candidates for the Senatorship
                    struggled for advantage as the day of reckoning drew near. The speakership of the Indiana House of
                    Representatives posed the initial question mark, and rumors freely circulated that supporters of
                    rival aspirants planned a switch to Beveridge's friend, Frank Littleton. Bestowing too many
                    prizes upon 
                        Marion County
                    , thus rousing the resentment of the rest of the state, seemed the surest way to defeat
                        Beveridge.63 Friends, fearful of that tactic, insisted that Beveridge urge
                    Littleton to renounce his candidacy, but he indignantly rejected the suggestion.
                    "Gentlemen," he replied, "not another word. Frank Littleton is one of the
                    best friends I have in the world. He is a candidate for Speaker, as I am for Senator. I would rather
                    go down in defeat than imperil by any selfish act of mine the chance of my friend for the office he
                        seeks."64
            
            
               
                  60 Quoted by the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 17, 1898.
               
                  61 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                        88–89.
               
                  62 Beveridge to George W. Perkins, January 3, 1899, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  63
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News, December 8, 1898; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, December 9, 10, 1898. A good summary of the maneuvering is in Coffin,
                        "The Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge," 158–159.
               
                  64
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 12, 1899, quoted by Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of
                        Albert J, Beveridge," 158.
            
            
            The political maneuvering of Beveridge's rivals insured Littleton's selection by
                    the end of December, but the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate's hopes remained undimmed by the plots of his foes.65 Perhaps, indeed, they had forwarded his chances. The disadvantages of the two candidacies
                    had been considered from the start, recalled an insider, and Beveridge's friends concluded
                    that Littleton's selection promised a decided gain for their cause. The speakership of the
                    Indiana House of Representatives, with its power and influence over committees and the like, meant
                    in the hands of a Beveridge adherent an advantage scarcely to be overlooked in any calculation.66
            
            As the day of the Republican caucus drew near with the Beveridge forces showing a surprising staying
                    power, rumors flew ever more furiously that Senator Fairbanks planned the youthful
                    candidate's downfall. Fairbanks lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and many of his friends feared lest the prejudice against the city injure the
                    Senator's chances should Beveridge triumph.67 Nor was it a secret that
                    Fairbanks himself regarded Beveridge's candidacy with something less than enthusiasm.68 In these circumstances, many saw his clever hand behind the White House
                    announcement, on the day of the caucus, of the nomination of Addison C. Harris, another 
                        Indianapolis
                     man, as minister to 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    .89
            
            That nomination, charged Beveridge's friends, had been deliberately designed to heighten the
                    antagonism throughout the state against 
                        Indianapolis
                     and its candidate.70 But Fairbanks angrily denied any such intent
                    of injuring Beveridge's candidacy. "Harris' nomination," he
                    insisted, "had no more connection with the Senatorial situation than to use an old figure
                    `a last year's bird nest.' The President sends nominations to the Senate to suit
                    himself—all depends upon the burden that is upon him." "In a short
                    time," the Senator continued, "I could have interfered with B's chances
                    in a more effective way than by the circuitous 
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 31, 1898.
                  
                     66 Interview with James W. Noel, as cited by Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 88.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 20, 1898.
                  
                     68 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 83.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 11, 1899.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11, 1899.
               
                     method of nominating a life long friend—such as
                    Harris—from 
                        Indianapolis
                     the day of the caucus."71
            
            But Beveridge and his friends remained unconvinced. "The appointment of Harris," he
                    insisted, "was regarded on every hand as a direct blow at me." And he added:
                        
                        I think the feeling was pretty general among the people here, during the Senatorial campaign,
                            that the President was against me … [for] it was, and for a long time has been,
                            felt that what was desired in certain quarters the chief would do. All this I have
                            discouraged, denied, repudiated. Nevertheless the feeling existed and I won in spite of it
                            and against it.72
                  
                    
            
            That he triumphed over the seemingly insurmountable odds against his candidacy, however, Beveridge
                    owed less to his personal strength than to the continued factional rivalry within the Republican
                    ranks. Control of the party lay at stake, and neither side could allow its rival to prevail. The
                    lines were drawn, and the hostile groupings prepared for their showdown. Behind the candidacy of the
                    most formidable contender, J. Frank Hanly, stood the full strength of the Fairbanks machine. Against
                    Hanly's candidacy, the Harrison men, hoping for a comeback, rallied their forces to seek
                    the defeat of their longtime foes. But they soon found their own hopes dimmed by the presence in the
                    race of two favorites, Judge Robert S. Taylor and Major George W. Steele.73
            
            An able lawyer and former judge, Taylor had been appointed a member of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Commission by President Garfield in 1881, and had so mastered the problems
                    involved that he had been retained despite the political changes in the administration at 
                        Washington
                     in the years which followed.74 A close friend of
                    Harrison's, Taylor had made a race against Fairbanks for the Senatorship in 1897 which had
                    further inflamed factional feelings,75 and now he faced the Senator's
                    wrath. "It is said in the papers, and I have private information confirming the
                    report," Taylor noted in alarm shortly after McKinley's inauguration,
                    "that our new Senator, being debarred by civil service rules from 
                  
                     71 Charles W. Fairbanks to Harry S. New, January 14, 1899, New Papers,
                            Library of Congress.
                  
                     72 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, March 2, 1899, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     73 Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the Senate,"
                            128–129.
                  
                     74 Seeds, History of the Republican Party of
                            Indiana, 168–169.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 13, 1897.
               
                     making vacancies for his friends among the Democrats, is
                    proposing to make one, at least, among the Republicans, and that Mr. Joseph Kealing is to be
                    appointed in my stead on the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Commission."76 Protests from his friends in
                    Congress helped forestall immediate action along these lines,77 but Taylor fully
                    realized his days were numbered if Fairbanks remained the dominant power on the Indiana scene.
            Taylor was Harrison's personal favorite for the Senate place. "With reference to
                    General Harrison," reported W.H.H. Miller, Harrison's law partner for a quarter of
                    a century and Attorney-General in his Cabinet, "I showed him your letter yesterday. He read
                    it carefully and said that he knew of no reason why he should be neutral in this matter, that while
                    he could not go out and seek men to try to influence them, yet he should not hesitate to express
                    himself freely to any who would come or be brought to him in favor of your candidacy."78 A longtime Harrison partisan, Roscoe O. Hawkins, provided skillful leadership
                    in the legislature,79 but Taylor himself, proud and dignified, displayed an
                    impatience for the details of organization and an aloofness from the vulgar pushing of the
                    politicians which further weakened his chances.80
            
            Not so formidable a candidate as Taylor, nonetheless Major George W. Steele had been a major figure
                    in state politics for long years. A Civil War veteran who had marched with Sherman to the sea, he
                    had served on Harrison's appointment as first governor of the 
                        Oklahoma
                     Territory. Particularly was Steele the favorite of the "old soldier"
                    element, still a political factor of real consequence, and he had been reelected in November, 1898,
                    to his seventh term in the lower house of Congress.81 A Harrison man from 1888, he had the support
                    of Harry S. New, who had succeeded his 
                  
                     76 Robert S. Taylor to Charles H. Aldrich, March 15, 1897, Taylor
                            Papers.
                  
                     77 During his long tenure on the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Commission, Taylor had made many friends among congressmen from the
                            area, and these led by T. C. Catchings, Democrat of 
                                Mississippi
                            , rallied to his defense, T. C. Catchings to Robert S. Taylor, March 7, 1897,
                            Taylor Papers.
                  
                     78 W. H. H. Miller to Robert S. Taylor, November 14, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     79
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 28, 1898.
                  
                     80 Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J.
                            Beveridge," 156.
                  
                     81 Seeds, History of the Republican Party of
                            Indiana, 122.
               
                     father, John C. New, as publisher of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal and leader of the Harrison forces. New had preferred that Steele not be a
                    candidate lest a second favorite in the field split the Harrison strength, reported another Harrison
                    leader canvassing on Taylor's behalf. But when the Major determined upon the race, New felt
                    under obligation from long family friendship to rally behind him.82
            
            A third aspirant, Frank B. Posey, played a crucial part in the plans laid by the Harrison men for
                    their return to power. No man in southern Indiana had been more prominent in the politics of the
                    state during the previous decade than this former congressman, and his candidacy drew heavily its
                    support from that section.83 But drawn into the race primarily as a decoy to
                    hold the support of his district until the decisive moment had arrived, he made no active canvass. A
                    clever tactic on the part of the Harrison managers, Posey's candidacy withheld crucial
                    support from their feared rival, J. Frank Hanly.84
            
            
               
                        
                     82 William A. Ketcham to Robert S. Taylor, November 22, 1898, Taylor
                            Papers.
                        There appeared rumors in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 3, 1898, to the effect that Fairbanks was behind
                            Steele's candidacy, and Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J.
                            Beveridge," 156–157, 161, accepts this rumor as correct. Apparent
                            confirmation appears provided by a note among the Harry S. New Papers at the Library of
                            Congress, dated July 11, 1929, explaining certain items, in which New claims that he had
                            been an original Fairbanks man and had believed that Fairbanks' interests could be
                            best served by the selection of Steele or Taylor, both of whom were supposedly true friends
                            of the Senator's. Mr. New, however, was not altogether candid in this note. Not
                            merely does this statement run counter to the overwhelming preponderance of evidence, as
                            presented above, about the actual state of factional feeling at the time, but it is directly
                            contradicted by New himself. Writing to Robert S. Taylor, November 16, 1904, Taylor Papers,
                            concerning his own bid for the Senate seat made vacant by Fairbanks' election as
                            Vice-President, New commented that "the same elements that opposed you so
                            vigorously are against me with the same zeal," and, as the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 5, 1904, reported, "Big Chief" Kealing and
                            the Fairbanks organization were leading the opposition to New's aspirations along
                            that line. Beveridge, aware of the rumors, remarked on the "political
                            paradox" that Riley McKeen, an old Harrison man and Fairbanks' foremost
                            rival for the Senate in 1897, would be in the Steele combine if Steele were really
                            Fairbanks' man, Beveridge to John C. Wingate, September 21, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
                            The paradox proved more apparent than real, for neither Steele, nor certainly Taylor, nor
                            New at the time, felt friendly toward Fairbanks.
                    
               
                  83 Seeds, History of the Republican Party of Indiana,
                        212–213.
               
                  84 Posey's manager recalled how he arranged Posey's
                        candidacy to help defeat Hanly, James M. Huff to Harry S. New, February 19, 1936, and the
                        foremost Harrison leader agreed that Posey's candidacy kept from Hanly a number of
                        votes sufficient to have elected him, Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
            
            
            For divided as they were, the Harrison forces remained firm in their determination to resist the
                    candidacy of J. Frank Hanly to the last. A speaker of force and eloquence, Hanly had risen rapidly
                    from a youth of poverty to a leading figure on the Indiana scene. Although a year younger than
                    Beveridge, he had previously served a term in the Indiana Senate from 1890 to 1894, followed by two
                    years in the lower house of Congress. He had been narrowly defeated for re-nomination in 1896 after
                    the legislature had redistricted him into a new congressional district, and had since been preparing
                    his plans for the 
                        United States
                     Senatorship.85 A cunning politician, a master of intrigue, Hanly
                    drew behind his candidacy the full power of the Fairbanks wing of the party.86
                    "It was understood from the outset of the campaign," recalled a contemporary,
                    "that the State organization, aided by a clear majority of the State's Republican
                    members of Congress, would favor the election of J. Frank Hanly as Senator."87
            
            His campaign manager was George F. McCulloch, Gowdy's successor as state chairman and hence
                    bitterly resented by the Harrison men,88 and McCulloch was ably seconded by Joe
                    Kealing, Fairbanks' ablest and most trusted lieutenant.89 In the
                    legislature, Martin Hugg, a Fairbanks follower from 1888 and Kealing's law partner, guided
                    the Hanly forces.90 The Fairbanks congressional clique, Representatives Charles
                    Henry, James E. Watson, and James Hemenway, lobbied on Hanly's behalf.91 Nor were the Fairbanks 
                  
                     85 Seeds, History of the Republican Party of
                            Indiana, 160–162.
                  
                     86 Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the Senate,"
                            128–129.
                  
                     87 Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             News, December 23, 1898. McCulloch succeeded to the chairmanship of the
                            Republican State Committee in 1897 when Gowdy went to 
                                Paris
                             as consul-general, but in the spring of 1898 he retired from the post
                            supposedly because of ill health. Charles S. Hernly was unanimously chosen his successor,
                            thereby avoiding an open show of the factional trouble which had disturbed the party two
                            years previously, Seeds, History of the Republican Party of Indiana, 84.
                            This factional strife, not ill health, explains McCulloch's retirement from the
                            state chairmanship. As the 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 11, 1898, pointed out, the resentment of the Harrison forces
                            directed now against McCulloch as a Gowdy protégé had become so bitter
                            as to threaten party chances that fall, and consequently it was decided necessary that
                            McCulloch retire in favor of the more neutral Hernly. During the 1899 senatorial campaign,
                            according to an insider, Hernly took no sides, Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to
                            the Senate," 126.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 27, 1898.
                  
                     90 Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 13, 31, 1898.
               
                     federal appointees inactive. Led by Controller of the Treasury
                    Robert J. Tracewell, Collector of Internal Revenue David W. Henry, and Pension Agent J. D. Leighty,
                    they rallied behind the Hanly standard.92 His rivals had no doubt what forces
                    lay behind his candidacy. "I understand that Robert J. Tracewell, Controller of the
                    Treasury, is painted red, white and blue for Hanly for Senator," noted Beveridge bitterly.
                    "This is probably inspired by Fairbanks."93
            
            Backed by this well entrenched machine, Hanly was by far the leading contender. The General Assembly
                    included eighty-nine Republicans, which meant that a candidate required forty-five votes in the
                    caucus for the nomination,94 and Hanly's friends jubilantly predicted
                    victory. "I am convinced," reported Hanly's campaign manager,
                    "the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     man is a winner… . A careful count by four of us shows 35 now."
                    Hanly stood within striking distance of the nomination, and the bandwagon appeared his.95 But his selection would mean the final elimination of the old Harrison group
                    from any position of influence, and led by New and Hawkins they rallied to defeat him at any
                        cost.96
            
            
               
                        
                     92
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 13, 28, 1898, January 3, 4, 1899; Coffin, "The
                            Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge," 157; David W. Henry to Fred Shims,
                            December 22, 1898, Henry Papers.
                        A story appeared in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 29, 1898, claiming that the Hanly movement was
                            "anti-Fairbanks in the extreme." But considering that the publisher of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News was J. Delevan Smith, Fairbanks' cousin, and Fairbanks
                            himself was secretly its owner, most probably the story was planted to diminish hostility to
                            Hanly as Fairbanks' man. At the same time, Taylor sought advantage from the rumor
                            by appealing for support from the unwary on the ground that Hanly had formed a new political
                            machine hostile to Fairbanks, Robert S. Taylor to M.C. Garber, December 30, 1898, Taylor
                            Papers. But this pretended solicitude on Taylor's part for Fairbanks'
                            welfare certainly did not reflect his true feelings. Nor had Hanly constructed a new
                            machine; rather his support came, as the evidence presented above conclusively demonstrates,
                            from that same machine which Fairbanks himself had constructed by the judicious distribution
                            of patronage. At the same time, Hanly's foremost opponents were Harrison men who
                            had been longtime opponents of the Fairbanks leadership of the party, Harry New and Roscoe
                            Hawkins, Nick Filbeck and Riley McKeen. 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, December 27, 29, 1898, January 9, 1899.
                    
               
                  93 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, December 13, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  94 Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the Senate," 130.
               
                  95 George F. McCulloch to David W. Henry, December 11, 1898, Henry Papers.
               
                  96
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, December 27, 29, 1898, noted that what it termed the New-Hawkins machine
                        planned a last-ditch resistance to Hanly's candidacy because control of the party
                        machinery lay at stake.
            
            
            "As it now appears," Taylor conceded, "it is Mr. Hanly against the
                    field." But the Harrison men were not without hope. "My friends do not look upon
                    the situation with dismay," Taylor continued, "but think there is a limit of about
                    thirty-five beyond which Mr. Hanly cannot go."97 Plans were laid
                    accordingly. A Steele leader, Henry C. Pettit, assured Taylor that he was the second choice of the
                    Steele men.98 And similarly Taylor advised his followers "not to make
                    any wicked fight against Mr. Steele, which might cut us off from the good will of his friends in
                    case he should have to retire from the fight leaving Mr. Hanly in the field."99
            
            The caucus of Republican legislators to select the party candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate had been set for Tuesday evening, January 10, and, as that day drew near, the
                    anti-Hanly leaders were busily sounding the situation. When their canvass of legislators showed that
                    more than the forty-five members required stood determinedly against Hanly, a meeting was arranged
                    under the leadership of Harry New to decide strategy.100 "I undertook
                    to effect a combination of the field," New later explained, "in which the
                    adherents of each agreed that under no circumstances would they ever go to Hanly."101
            
            The anti-Hanly leaders realized that if any candidate should withdraw prior to the caucus his pledged
                    votes would be released, and they feared lest enough fall to Hanly to nominate him, so close did he
                    stand to victory. The decisive moment for concentrating strength upon a single candidate, they
                    concluded, could only be ascertained as ballot succeeded ballot in the caucus to forestall any last
                    minute electioneering 
                  
                     97 Robert S. Taylor to William Bunyan, January 1, 1899, Taylor Papers.
                  
                     98 Henry C. Pettit to Robert S. Taylor, December 5, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     99 Robert S. Taylor to Robert B. Hanna, December 21, 1898, ibid.
                  
                  
                     100 A canvass of the situation by the anti-Hanly leaders on the
                            evening of January 4, reported the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 5, 1899, showed at least fifty legislators who would
                            never vote for Hanly under any circumstances and who would not be stampeded by the bandwagon
                            proposition. A Beveridge supporter, Charles F. Remy, recalled how he and Robert E.
                            Mansfield, a Steele leader, but a close personal friend of Beveridge, made the poll of
                            legislators which showed the presence of the anti-Hanly majority, Remy, "The
                            Election of Beveridge to the Senate," 130–131. Another participant,
                            James M. Huff, Posey's manager, recalled the scheme in a letter of February 19,
                            1936, to Harry S. New, New Papers, Indiana State Library. Both emphasize Harry
                            New's preeminent role in the subsequent events which led to Beveridge's
                            selection.
                  
                     101 Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
               
                     by Hanly. "This agreement was definitely made and was
                    faithfully adhered to," recalled its foremost architect. "It provided that when
                    the moment for rallying around one particular candidate arrived we would all concentrate upon the
                    man who had more votes than either of the others."102
            
            Therein lay Beveridge's hope. If he could start the balloting with as many as a dozen men
                    pledged to stand to the end, his friends would hold the balance of power between the rival factions.
                    Aware that rather than allow Hanly's selection the Harrison forces would throw their
                    support to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate, Beveridge's followers concentrated on securing second choice
                        pledges.103 "Nine out of ten of the Hanly men are for any one to
                    beat Steele or Taylor," pointed out a shrewd Beveridge supporter. "The same
                    proportion of Taylor men are for any one to beat Hanly … [and] in event of a break you
                    will reap the benefit."104
            
            Beveridge's five 
                        Indianapolis
                     friends provided a loyal nucleus of support, and during the previous weeks his managers
                    had been quietly lining up support from throughout the state. As the caucus approached amidst
                    spreading rumors of a crystallizing anti-Hanly sentiment, the Beveridge campaign swung into high
                    gear to push the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate to the fore as the leading Hanly rival.105 By the evening
                    before the caucus, fifteen members of the General Assembly had pledged to support Beveridge
                    steadfastly to the end in hopes of that deadlock which promised the 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidate his chance.106 "The situation here is
                    excellent," Beveridge concluded in outlining this strategy. "I am the only one who
                    has a support which will stand by him, if I say so, during five thousand ballots, if necessary. In
                    addition to this, I am the second choice of sixty-five members of the Legislature who have expressed
                    themselves openly; forty-five members only are necessary to a choice."107
            
            
               
                        102
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  103 Interviews with Noel, Joss, and Glossbrenner, as cited by Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 89.
               
                  104 Nathan H. Baker to Beveridge, December 19, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  105
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 6, 7, 10, 1899; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, January 7–10, 1899. A good summary of this late Beveridge
                        boom is in Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge,"
                        160–161.
               
                  106 Interviews with Noel, Joss, and Glossbrenner, as cited by Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 89–90; Coffin, "The
                        Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge," 162.
               
                  107 Beveridge to George W. Perkins, December 24, 1898, Beveridge
                    Papers.
            
            
            On Tuesday evening, January 10, 1899, the eighty-nine Republican members of the General Assembly
                    gathered in the hall of the Indiana House of Representatives as the intrigue and counter-intrigue
                    reached a fever pitch. "The floor managers for Judge Taylor were Senator Newton Gilbert, of 
                        Steuben
                    , and Senator R. O. Hawkins, of 
                        Marion
                    ," Harry New recalled the scene. "I personally represented Major
                    Steele, J. M. Huff represented Posey, and practically all of the original Beveridge following of
                    thirteen were fully consulted. All agreed that whatever might happen none in their respective camps
                    should ever go to Hanly."108
            
            The Hanly men had determined to cast their full strength from the first in hopes of stampeding the
                    caucus, and, as the balloting began, that candidate stood far to the front. But the anti-Hanly
                    forces held firm, and Beveridge, slowly gaining, held second place as ballot followed ballot. Then
                    on the ninth ballot came the moment of crisis when Hanly reached the thirty-seven votes fixed as the
                    danger point beyond which his foes dared not allow him to gain lest the bandwagon psychology sweep
                    him to victory.109 "At that stage," Harry New recalled,
                    "it had become perfectly apparent to me that the choice must be made between Hanly and
                    Beveridge." Hurried consultations among the anti-Hanly leaders determined their course, and
                    now the carefully prepared plans unfolded. The scene had been set, and all stood in readiness for
                    that final count naming Albert J. Beveridge the Republican choice for the 
                        United States
                     Senate.110
            
            
               
                  108 Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
               
                  109 The caucus was composed of the eighty-nine Republican members of both
                        houses of the General Assembly sitting together, and the balloting as reported by the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, January 11, 1899, was as follows: 
                     
                        No.
                        Hanly
                        Taylor
                        Posey
                        Beveridge
                        Steele
                     
                     
                        1.
                        32
                        19
                        14
                        13
                        11
                     
                     
                        2.
                        31
                        16
                        12
                        19
                        11
                     
                     
                        3.
                        33
                        16
                        10
                        20
                        10
                     
                     
                        4.
                        32
                        17
                        9
                        21
                        10
                     
                     
                        5.
                        Thrown out due to error
                     
                     
                        6.
                        30
                        19
                        9
                        21
                        10
                     
                     
                        7.
                        32
                        16
                        8
                        22
                        11
                     
                     
                        8.
                        34
                        16
                        10
                        20
                        9
                     
                     
                        9.
                        37
                        15
                        8
                        20
                        9
                     
                     
                        10.
                        Thrown out due to error
                     
                     
                        11.
                        36
                        9
                        8
                        28
                        8
                     
                     
                        12.
                        35
                        —
                        5
                        49
                        —
                     
                  
               
               
                  110 Harry S. New MS, New Papers, Indiana State Library.
            
            
            During the balloting, Beveridge remained in his law office on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street with a few friends, and Frank Littleton telephoned in the results from the
                    caucus. That he received only thirteen votes on the first ballot stunned Beveridge for the moment. A
                    disloyal pair from that group which had pledged their firm support to Beveridge the night before
                    deserted to the Hanly side, and Beveridge hearing this feared lest his chance had fled.111 But as the voting continued, his slowly rising strength restored that
                    supreme confidence in his destiny which had sustained his campaign against seemingly insuperable
                    odds. "That amounts to nothing," he insisted during the fluctuations of the
                    voting. "I'll be nominated."
            "Gentlemen, I am nominated," Beveridge calmly announced to his friends when the
                    final count confirmed his faith. Then he hastened to call his wife to give her the news.
                    "Kitty," he cried, "I am nominated, thank God." Reaching his
                    headquarters at the Denison, Beveridge found a cheering crowd of welcome, and, followed by his
                    supporters, proceeded to the State House where sat the caucus awaiting the Senator-designate.112 "Appreciation is a poor word for the honor that you have conferred
                    upon me," he spoke, "obligation does not adequately describe the duty which your
                    kindness has placed upon me." "I have no words to thank you," the new
                    Senator exclaimed. "Words fail me."113
            
            Beveridge's formal election came a week later, on Tuesday, January 17. The two houses of the
                    General Assembly meeting separately proceeded on that day to cast their vote for the next Senator
                    from Indiana. The Republican majority in each chamber, following the will of the caucus, cast their
                    votes for Beveridge; the Democratic minority honored the incumbent, David Turpie, with their votes;
                    and Populist Alonzo Burkhart found a single supporter in the Senate. The following day, at 12:00
                    noon, the Senate adjourned to meet with the House of Representatives in joint session to compare the
                    votes cast the previous day and to inform officially the victorious candidate of his election. The
                    vote on 
                  
                     111 Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J.
                            Beveridge," 162; Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 90.
                  
                     112 Remy, "The Election of Beveridge to the Senate,"
                            131–133.
                  
                     113
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 11, 1899.
               
                     the joint ballot read: Beveridge, 87, Turpie, 56, Burkhart, 1,
                    with four members absent due to illness. A committee of three members from each house informed
                    Beveridge of his election, and, escorted to the speaker's chair, the Senator-elect
                    delivered his speech of acceptance outlining the principles which would guide his future course.114
            
            The significance of Beveridge's selection had its dual aspect, for Indiana and for the
                    nation. Friend and foe fully understood its meaning for Indiana Republican politics, and they laid
                    their plans accordingly. In command of the full force of federal patronage, Fairbanks could have
                    carried the day for Hanly had he acted more decisively. But overconfidence proved his undoing.
                    "It is quite true, as you say," learned a Hanly leader to his alarm,
                    "that Senator Fairbanks is not taking sides in this contest. This seems all the stranger
                    when you and myself know that Perry Heath, acting on the permission of President-elect McKinley,
                    went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and swung around enough legislators to insure Fairbanks'
                        election."115 He had neglected to act when action could have saved
                    the situation, and now he regretted his error.
            "I had a long talk with Senator F. the other night, having called to see him at his
                    request," reported Robert J. Tracewell to David W. Henry shortly after the election.
                    "I told him in a diplomatic way about what took place after Hanly was defeated [and] he now
                    seems to realize the situation." In the future, Tracewell felt certain, "his
                    friends will have nothing to complain of respecting his willingness to get charge of the party
                    organization in Indiana. In my judgment, he is at work now, and will never let up until things are
                    going right. He now knows who his friends are, and when and how he made a mistake."116
            
            Nor was Beveridge inactive. Aware of Fairbanks' hostility, he moved to consolidate his
                    newly-won position. A rival political machine was forming, fashioned by the skillful hand of the
                    young Senator-elect. "I wish to the Lord you could 
                  
                     114 Coffin, "The Senatorial Career of Albert J.
                            Beveridge," 164; Indiana Senate Journal, 61 Sess., 1899, Part I,
                            126–127, 147; Indiana House Journal, 61 Sess., 1899, Part I, 213–215.
                  
                     115 George Allen to David W. Henry, January 23, 1899, Henry Papers.
                  
                     116 Robert J. Tracewell to David W. Henry, January 23, 1899, ibid.
                  
               
                     have been at a dinner given by Charles E. Coffin last
                    night," he wrote a supporter. "Hawkins and New were there … [and] they
                    fully, unreservedly, and in the most ultimate degree laid down their arms."117 That combination which had elected Beveridge to the 
                        United States
                     Senate now joined to wrest full control of the party machinery, and a new phase of
                    factional strife had begun in Indiana Republicanism.
            But Beveridge's selection had its significance beyond Indiana upon the national scene.
                    "The new Indiana Senator has never held office," remarked the American Monthly Review of Reviews, "and he comes into this high place in a
                    manner that must please the young men of the country In some such way as Governor
                    Roosevelt's election last November pleased them."118 Political
                    leadership had begun to shift from the men born in the 1830's and 1840's, and
                    Beveridge's elevation marked another instance of the rise of a younger generation into the
                    seats of power. That younger generation had found the depression of the 1890's a searing
                    experience which portended the end of a way of life most Americans cherished. The agrarian revolt,
                    the wave of bitter, bloody strikes had created a near-panic in middle class America, and
                    Beveridge's earlier mood of buoyant optimism never quite returned. The nation had grown up
                    in the happy assumption that the social conflicts troubling less fortunate lands could never happen
                    here, but by the close of the century Beveridge feared that this was no longer the case. Widening
                    class fissures cast their shadow across the American scene, and this larger issue concerned the
                    youthful Senator-elect as he addressed the General Assembly.119
            
            Representing as he did the spirit and desires of a middle class fearful for the future, Beveridge
                    promised a middle 
                  
                     117 Beveridge to Schuyler Colfax, Jr., January 14, 1899, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     118 "The Rise of Mr. Beveridge," American Monthly Review of Reviews, XIX (1899), 141–142.
                  
                     119 Beveridge's "Reply to Altgeld" speech, 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Inter-Ocean, October 30, 1896, reflects his sense of panic at the 1896
                            Bryan campaign, and his "Lincoln, the Conservative" speech, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 13, 1898 (reprinted in Albert J. Beveridge, The Meaning of the Times and Other Speeches [
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908], 28–36) shows how the crisis of the 1890's,
                            climaxing in the Bryan campaign, aroused a concern, largely lacking previously, for the
                            social problems following from the rapid industrialization of the country.
               
                     ground between left and right, between ultra-reactionary and
                    wild-eyed radical. In an uneasy and fearful mood in face of the trusts multiplying on the one side,
                    and labor and populist movements on the other, he pledged to stand above the contending classes, an
                    impartial arbiter devoted to the national good. "And so, gentlemen," he declared
                    to the Indiana legislature, 
                        I shall fearlessly stand in the Senate of the 
                                United States
                             for the business interests of the country, when that means the welfare of all
                            the people; I shall fearlessly stand by the labor interest of the land, when that means the
                            prosperity of all the people; I shall just as fearlessly stand against the demands of any
                            class, when these demands do not involve the interests of the entire American people and the
                            ongoing of the imperial American Republic.
                    
            
            His real impulses deeply conservative, Beveridge sought by the resounding phrases of a fervent
                    nationalism to still that lurking menace of social upheaval haunting middle class America.
                    "Fate," he exclaimed, "has woven the life and welfare of every citizen of
                    our sacred Nation into the life and welfare of every other citizen beneath the flag." No
                    classes, no sections, Americans were brothers joined by the bonds of immortal memories, by the
                    kinship of glorious hopes, by the indissoluble decrees of historic destiny. "The people,
                    the whole people and nothing but the people," Beveridge cried, "is the
                    intellectual atmosphere in which a lawgiver should live and move and have his being." To
                    know no class but the nation became his ideal, to know no dream but its onward march his life work.
            "The unconquerable heart of the pioneer still beats within American breasts," he
                    rejoiced, "and the American flag advances still in its ceaseless and imperial progress,
                    with law and order and Christian civilization trooping beneath its sacred folds." If
                    America should renounce that ideal of future expansion beyond its present bounds, Beveridge warned,
                    its fate shall necessarily be the sad refrain of internal dissension, class hatred, sectional
                    division. But through faith in the imperial destiny of the American people, through fulfillment of
                    its civilizing duty to mankind lay in its hope of salvation. By looking outward America shall regain
                    that sense of national purpose so needed in domestic concerns, by  governing others it shall learn to govern itself. This country had not begun its age of decay, he
                    promised a worried America, but remained the land of the future. The dawn of a new era of national
                    advance approached, and, in the boldness of his youth, the newly-chosen 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, Albert J. Beveridge, had become its prophet.120
            
            
               
                  120 All quotes are from Beveridge's speech of acceptance before
                        the General Assembly, reprinted in Toasts, Given at Dinner in Honor of Albert J.
                            Beveridge, 76–82. This speech is typical of the trend of
                        Beveridge's thinking following the crisis of 1896, as reflected in his speeches,
                        Beveridge, The Meaning of the Times, 1–57.
            
         
         
            Longfellow Sesquicentennial
            Since 1957 is the sesquicentennial year of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807–1882), it will
                    interest many to know that on December 30, 1881, James Whitcomb Riley called at Craigie House in
                            
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , to visit the New 
                        England
                     poet. This visit occurred shortly before Longfellow's death. Mr.
                    Riley's account of his visit was published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, April 29, 1882, under the title, "An Hour with
                    Longfellow." It has been reprinted in Edward Wagenknecht's recent biography
                    entitled Longfellow: A Full-Length Portrait (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green and Company, 1955.)
            For this information the editor is indebted to Mr. Frederick E. Schortemeier, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Mexican War Journal of Henry S. Lane
            Contributed by Graham A. Barringer∗
            
            Henry S. Lane was born in 1811 on a farm in 
                        Bath County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , about thirty miles east of 
                        Lexington
                    . After attending a country school and an academy he read law in the office of Colonel
                    James Suddeth and assisted in the county clerk's office. Three years later he was admitted
                    to the 
                        Kentucky
                     bar and began the practice of law in his native commonwealth.
            In 1834 young Lane and his bride moved to 
                  Crawfordsville, Montgomery County
               ,
                    Indiana, where he formed a law partnership with Samuel C. Wilson which became well known in that
                    section of the state. In 1842 his first wife died and three years later Lane married Joanna Elston,
                    daughter of Isaac C. Elston, prominent 
                        Crawfordsville
                     businessman.
            Politics soon lured Lane, eventually weaning him from the practice of law. He served in the Indiana
                    House of Representatives (1837–1838) and in the lower house of the 
                        United States
                     Congress (1841–1845). An ardent Whig, he stumped the state for his political
                    idol, Henry Clay, during Clay's campaign for the presidency in 1844.
            Although most Northern Whigs denounced the Mexican War as a Democratic ruse to gain slave territory
                    from Mexico, Lane supported it. Instrumental in raising a company of volunteers from 
                        Montgomery County
                    , he was elected captain when the company was organized at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 3, 1846. When the 
                        Montgomery
                     volunteers were mustered into service in the First Regiment of Indiana Volunteers on
                    June 20 at Camp Clark, near 
                        New Albany
                    , Lane was elected major of the regiment. While in service he was promoted to the rank
                    of lieutenant colonel.
            
               
                  ∗ Graham A. Barringer was chairman of the history department at 
                            Nebraska
                         Wesleyan University, 
                            Lincoln
                        , 
                            Nebraska
                        , from 1923 until his retirement in 1952. His interest in Henry S. Lane, which he
                        has maintained for many years, stems from his work under the direction of Professor Logan Esarey
                        at Indiana University.
            
            
            Lieutenant Colonel Lane received his discharge on June 16, 1847, at 
                        New Orleans
                    . Enroute home with Mrs. Lane he made a stirring speech in defense of the war at 
                        Madison
                     which doubtless aided materially in securing recruits for the Indiana regiments. He
                    favored General Zachary Taylor for the presidency in 1848 despite the lukewarmness of many Hoosiers
                    because of Taylor's criticism of the Indiana volunteers following the battle of Buena
                    Vista.
            After the war the Lanes resided in Lane House, a pioneer mansion they had erected before the war, and
                    he resumed the practice of law. In 1853 he retired from the law because of ill health and thereafter
                    divided his time between politics and business, devoting considerable attention to banking in
                    association with his father-in-law.
            Politics soon beckoned him again and during the fifties he was perhaps the most popular advocate of
                    the new Republican party in Indiana. Although he had made an unsuccessful race for re-election to
                    Congress in 1849, by 1852 he was prominently mentioned as a Whig nominee for governor though he
                    would not allow his name to go before the state convention. In 1854 he served as chairman of the
                    initial state convention of the People's party and two years later he served in a similar
                    capacity for the first national convention of the Republican party. Late in 1858 the Indiana
                    legislature elected him to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in an unsuccessful Republican maneuver to oust Indiana's two Democratic
                    senators whom the Republicans claimed had been illegally elected.
            In 1860 the Republicans, as the People's party had been known in Indiana since about 1860,
                    chose him to be their nominee for governor. As a conservative old-line Whig he suited the temper of
                    the party better than did Oliver P. Morton, the 1856 nominee. Morton, however, was selected as his
                    running mate, apparently with the understanding that if the ticket were successful Lane would become
                    Senator and Morton would succeed to the governorship. In the presidential campaign of 1860 Lane
                    vigorously opposed Seward and with equal vigor advocated Lincoln's nomination.
            Thus Lane became Indiana's first Republican governor, though he actually occupied the office
                    for only a few days during January, 1861. His inaugural address expressed intense  devotion to the Union. From 1861 to 1877 he served in the Senate, where
                    he was a partisan and faithful supporter of Lincoln, then later of the Radical Republicans against
                    President Johnson. When his term expired he did not seek re-election and he spent nearly all his
                    time after 1877 in business at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     until his death in 1881.
            The Journal of Henry S. Lane covers the period from June, 1846, to June, 1847, the year he
                    participated in the Mexican campaign.1 It is of interest both for its
                    description of the war from the point of view of an Indiana officer and for the insight it gives
                    into the personalities of a number of prominent participants in the war, notably General Zachary
                    Taylor, as well as the eminent author himself.
            The journal has been reproduced in its entirety as accurately as possible. No changes have been made
                    either in original spelling or wording, although a few additions have been made in brackets.
                    However, in order to facilitate easier comprehension, an effort has been made to standardize both
                    capitalization and punctuation.
            
               
                  1 For an account of Indiana's participation in the Mexican War
                        see R. Carlyle Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican War," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XV (September, 1919), 260–292; ibid.,
                        XV (December, 1919), 293–326; ibid., XVI (March, 1920),
                        46–68; Oran Perry, Indiana in the Mexican War (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1908). For a general account of the Mexican War see Justin H. Smith, The War With Mexico (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1919).
            
            
            
               Sample Page from the Lane Journal
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Memorandum of the Mexican Campaign kept by Henry S. Lane & beginning at his
                                    departure from 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    , Indiana.
                        Left 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                     on Thursday, July2 the 11th, 1846, in the midst of
                                    a violent shower of rain. Left the town in tears & to be honest that day was
                                    one of the dark days, not that I regretted the step I had taken but leaving home
                                    & all its sweet influences filled my heart with sadness.
                        June the 12th. Reached 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . The Governor & suit as well as the citizens treated us with
                                    marked kindness. The citizens turned out en masse to receive the 
                                        Montgomery
                                     volunteers. Hugh O'Neal Esq.3 made a
                                    speech to us to which I responded; the kindness & sympathy cheered &
                                    warmed our hearts & nerved our arms for a struggle worthy of ourselves
                                    & our country.
                        June the 15th, 1846. Left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for 
                                        New Albany
                                    . Reached 
                                        New Albany
                                     on the 17th. On the way at 
                                        Madison
                                     I made a speech in answer to the loud & repeated calls of the
                                    citizens. Speech well received. At 
                                        New Albany
                                     found things all in confusion, & came to the conclusion that
                                    the office of captain was the most arduous post in the army (which opinion I shall
                                    hold for the present.)
                        On June the 20th my dear wife, my noble Joan, came to see me at 
                                        New Albany
                                    ; & about this date I am the happiest man alive & so is
                                    she whose happiness is more to me than life.
                        June the 22d, 1846. We were mustered into the service of the 
                                        United States
                                     & took upon ourselves new duties & obligations to the
                                    faithful discharge of which we are bound by every consideration of pride,
                                    patriotism, & duty.
                        July 2d, 1846. Lt. George D. Powers killed. This event casts a gloom over our whole
                                    company. We mourned for him as a comrade, a friend, & fellow soldier,
                                    & we mourned for his father & mother at home; this accident brought
                                    to our minds forcibly the sad & stern realities of grim-vizaged war.
                        June 25th.4 I was elected major in the 1st Regiment today. I left
                                    my old company with great regret & was 
                              
                                 2 Undoubtedly Lane meant to write
                                            "June" here.
                              
                                 3 Presumably the noted criminal lawyer of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                              
                                 4 This entry and the one for July 2 (above) occurred
                                            out of order in the original manuscript.
                           
                                     doubtful as to the true point of duty, but
                                    finally concluded that I could do more for the company as major than I could as
                                    capt.
                        July 5th. Left 
                                        New Albany
                                     & reached 
                                        New Orleans
                                     on the 11th of July, 1846; the wealth, magnificence, & commerce
                                    of this great city far surpassed all my expectations. Encamped on the ever memorable
                                    battle ground of 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , & thought of Genl. Jackson until our hearts were filled with
                                    the mingled love of glory & love of country. Left 
                                        New Orleans
                                     on the 17th for Brazos St. Iago, 
                                        Texas
                                    
                           5; on the 22d about 3 o'clock in [the
                                    morning] we experienced all the horrors of ship wreck; but I hope I am thankful to a
                                    kind & ever watchful providence for our narrow yet safe escape from all the
                                    perils of the deep deep sea. The boys all behaved well.
                        On the 24th of July I reached Brazos St. Iago from Padri Island, the scene of our
                                    ship wreck.6 The water at Brazos St. Iago was as disagreeable
                                    & unhealthy as words can describe. It made almost all of the regiment sick,
                                    more or less; it gave me the dysentery of which I nearly died. My whole recollection
                                    of Brazos St. Iago is not refreshed with one single pleasant incident. It [is] a
                                    grave yard, a very hell upon earth.
                        On the 28th left Brazos to travel to Metamores7 for the
                                    improovement of my health. Traveled two days in Mexico & reached Metamores.
                                    This town is much delapidated. At one time it seems to have had 10 or 12 thousand
                                    inhabitants; but now it is a poor, poor place, a den of gamblers, drunkards,
                                    & cut throats.
                        The 1st of August, 1846. Returned to the mouth of the Rio Grande.
                        On the 2d of August we left the mouth of the Rio Grande & reached the
                                    encampment opposite Barita, in the disputed territory.8 2d a
                                    letter from my dear Joan.
                        
                           
                              5 Brazos Santiago, 
                                            Texas
                                        .
                           
                              6 The boat carrying the 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                         and Peru companies of the First Regiment Indiana Volunteers was
                                        wrecked on Padre Island. See Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican
                                        War," 275; Perry, Indiana in the Mexican War, 83.
                           
                              7 Matamoros.
                           
                              8 La Burrita on the south bank of the Rio Grande. The
                                        disputed territory here referred to is the territory between the Rio Grande and
                                        the Neuces River farther north. The 
                                            United States
                                         claimed the Rio Grande as the boundary, Mexico claimed the Neuces.
                                        Smith, The War with Mexico, I, 138, 162.
                        
                        
                        On the 3d of August wrote a letter to [my] wife & thought much of home.
                                    Remembered that today is our election day in Indiana but felt much indifference as
                                    to the result. We are here either above or below all political excitement except
                                    what is connected with the war & its influences & consequences. I
                                    have sunk for the time my character as a citizen in my new character as a soldier,
                                    yet I love peace & shall gladly return to its charm if my country so orders.
                        4th August, 1846. A dull rainey day & considerable sickness in camp. Prospect
                                    of marching for Carmmargo9 in 15 days. My health much improved
                                    & I am getting along very well in my new mess. Today bought a fine horse for
                                    $95, & much trouble about forage. I am much pleased with our
                                    encampment & I now prophecy that we at this time occupy what in a few years
                                    will be the seat of a great city, the 1st city in wealth & importance in the
                                    State of 
                                        Texas
                                    . Our flag, the ladies flag, was selected by the field officers of the
                                    1st Regiment as one of the regimental colours, which was hailed with pride &
                                    joy by our company. God bless all ladies but more especially the ladies of 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    .
                        August 5th, 1846. This is clear but we are in great trouble about a supposed order
                                    for our regiment to go back to the mouth of the Rio Grande. It all ended in smoke.
                                    There is no order as yet, but all still fear such an order. I now think we shall not
                                    be ordered to go any farther into Mexico & that [we] shall not see a single
                                    hostile Mexican, but that we shall have to encounter a much more terrible [enemy],
                                    the southern climate and camp fevers.
                        August 6th. Still a dull rainey day. It rains, rains, rains, & nothing else
                                    to chronicle except a constant firing of cannon on the river about which caused some
                                    excitement in the camp. Sickness seems to day on the increase & the desire
                                    among the soldiers for discharges is also on the increase. The life of a soldier is
                                    a hard one & it ought to be one of glory. No coffee & no sugar in
                                    camp.
                        August 7th, 1846. A bright sunshiney day & the health & spirits of
                                    the men rather better. The first dress parade today. The turnout very respectable.
                                    The prospect for a fight rather more gloomy. We are now assured that we shall remain
                                    for at least five weeks in this neighborhood, eating 
                              
                                 9 Camargo.
                           
                                     rather poor rations & daily parades
                                    & guarding bagg[ag]e. A dicidedly dull business.
                        August 8th, 1846. Another day in which there was no rain. The boys generally sick of
                                    the volunteer service. My health good & an uncontrollable appetite. Cooked
                                    some today, ground coffee, tried to learn to make beef soup with rice in it. But
                                        Bohon10 can beat me all hollow. Thought much of my dear Joan
                                    & the kind friends in my far off home. If I can have health I shall like
                                    camp life with all its bustle & noise & false alarms & false
                                    rumors; but to be sick in camp is a terrible trial on one's fortitude
                                    & phylosophy.
                        August 9th, 1846. It is the Sabbath but oh how unlike the sweet Sabbath of our home
                                    afar off. We miss here its sweet refineing & holy influences upon our
                                    hearts. A Sabbath in camp upon the Rio Grande differs essentially from the same
                                    blessed day in 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    , but the change is in us & not in the institution, for all the
                                    divine institutions partake of the character of of their author for immutability.
                                    Instead of the sound of the church bells & the hum of prayer &
                                    thronging thousands of Christian votaries, we have here the sounds of mirth, of
                                    rioting, of blasphemy, & all manner of irreverence & ungodliness. It
                                    is strange that men become more & more hardened & obdurate as the
                                    chances for sudden death are increased. A camp life is demoralizing in all its
                                    tendencies. Men who at home are moral, kind, & humane, here in too many
                                    instances become immoral, unkind, & morose men. Who at home can weep over
                                    every tale of imaginary here have no tears for the death of a friend or messmate.
                                    The reason for which change may be found in the fact that so much of personal
                                    comfort of the soldier must necessarily depend on himself that he is taught to rely
                                    on himself alone & becomes unsocial & selfish. When we left home a
                                    case of serious sickness or a case of death made a vivid & most painful
                                    impression, but now men sicken, die, & are buried, & forgotten
                                    almost, in the same day; & still war seems the natural trade of men, the
                                    pathway of glory marked with the foot prints of the great ones of our sincrushed
                                    world. I 
                              
                                 10 Private Daniel Bohon, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers. All names of 
                                                United States
                                             soldiers in the Mexican War which have been completed have been
                                            located either in Francis B. Heitman, The Historical Register
                                                and Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army (2 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1903), or in Perry, Indiana in the Mexican
                                            War.
                              
                           
                                     close as I began this day by thinking of one
                                    whom I know is thinking of me. May the God of the Christian's hope
                                    & the Christian's promise bless & protect her.
                        August 10th, 1846. Wrote a letter today to my dear Joan in answer to one received
                                    from her last night. It is sweet to receive a letter from one we love at any time,
                                    but here there is a pleasure in it which is indiscribable. I read & read
                                    & reread & each successive reading is almost equal to a new letter.
                                    A letter from home—oh how it calls up all of the sweet memories of the
                                    happy days spent in sweet communion with kindred spirits in the home of the
                                    heart's best & holiest affections. Last [night] I heard a sermon,
                                    the first since I left Indiana. It was preached by Lt. Poe11—a plain feeling & practical discourse. He is a Methodist
                                    preacher. His sermon had a fine effect. The service was most imposeing. It was in
                                    the open air with the officer[s] and soldiers grouped around the minister, with the
                                    clear blue sky over us & the bright stars nightly sentinels of the upper
                                    encampment looking down upon us & a full moon silvering over with its mild
                                    effulgence hill top & valley & river. At the close of the sermon the
                                    preacher referred to our distant homes & the kind friends who at that same
                                    hour were praying for us & the perils of our present service & the
                                    uncertainty of life, & the eye of many a rough soldier glistened with tears.
                                    I am daily becoming more & more partial to the Methodist Church &
                                    its form of worship. Oh how I do wish that I was good enough to join that church
                                    where my dear wife worships, & to adorn that faith which she illustrates in
                                    her practice.
                        August 11th, 1846. The warmest day we have yet had. No breeze until after dinner this
                                    evening. At 2 o'clock summoned upon a brigade court martial—my
                                    first appearance as a member of a criminal court. Today we have heard that our
                                    regiment are to go to the mouth of the Rio Grande & that no Indiana troops
                                    are to be marched upon the enemy until the last of Sept. Bad policy to bring troops
                                    here in the heat of the summer without any provisions or transportation for them.
                                    Many, very many of our troops will die here from fevers long before they can be of
                                    any use to the 
                              
                                 11 Second Lieutenant Richard M. Poe, Company I, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     country. For this state of things the President
                                    is alone responsible, that is, responsible in theory; in practice there is no
                                    holding of a President to account. He is, as long as he has a great party for him,
                                    secure from even his masters.
                        August 12th, 1846. All day today engaged upon a court martial as judge advocate. It
                                    was a new business & came awkward at first, but I now have the hang of the
                                    matter. It is a laborous business, but $3 per day as judge advocate in
                                    addition to regular pay is something. I have written today seven hours. Being judge
                                    advocate is a much slower way to make money than practicing law. Sent a letter this
                                    morning to the loved one, the star of my heart & hope.
                        August 13th, 1846. Warm, sultry day. All in. Day spent in court martial. Great
                                    sickness in camp.
                        August 14th. The weather more pleasant. On a court martial again. Health of self
                                    good. An order come for our removal to the mouth of the Rio Grande. Prospect for a
                                    battle rather more gloomy.
                        August 15th. Began remooveing to the river over a pond, 1/2 mile wide & waist
                                    deep, the men carrying baggage on their shoulders.
                        Sunday the 16th, 1846. Remooved from Camp Belknap to the bank of the
                                    river—a serious job. The troops had to pack all the bagg[ag]e for two
                                    miles, the most of the way in water waist-deep; it was done without a murmer. I
                                    helped to make the moove & then read 6 chapters in the Testament &
                                    thought much of home & the dear wife. The troops caught four catfish
                                    weighing from 20 to 30 lbs.—a great treat. Wished for the major12 to be here to enjoy the sport.
                        August 17th, 1846. A fine bright morning. Helped to get breakfast. I then done my
                                    part towards eating it. Fine health & spirits. Sent to the Point for letters
                                    & live today in the hope of hearing from my dear Joan. Dear indeed to me is
                                    she, far dearer than I had ever conceived when at home. What is she doing this
                                    bright morning? Perhaps she is at this moment sending up prayers for my welfare,
                                    spiritual & temporal, & I feel while I write that her prayers are
                                    being answered, that I am happier & better on account of intercessions 
                              
                                 12 Probably a reference to Major Isaac C. Elston of 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                            , Lane's father-in-law.
                           
                                     for me, & I form new resolutions of
                                    reformation for the future.
                        August 18th, 1846. Sick headache. The mess very kind & I got over the spell
                                    as well as usual, but oh how I missed the kind ministrations of my Joan. The mess
                                    was much shocked by her [hearing?] of the death of the father of our excellent
                                    messmate Mr. James F. Harney.13 A great deal of sickness in
                                    camp. One of the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     volunteers drowned in the Rio Grande to day. Discontent in camp
                                    & great apprehension of pestilence of some kind [of] yellow fever or vomits.
                        August 19th, 1846. Nothing to mark this day except the date & one other
                                    matter which made a sensation. We had to day fine fresh fish & beef
                                    steak—a great rarity after the pork & bacon & bacon
                                    & pork.
                        August 20th. Capt. Powers14 discharged on account of ill health.
                                    He never was fit for duty morally, mentally, or physically. The company have been
                                    much injured by his conduct. It has been only kept up by the exertions of May,15 Harney & Goss,16 with Hanks17 & a few others. I hope in future better things of
                                    & for it. Lt. May elected capt. & Orderly Goss was elected 1st It.
                                    Good selections.
                        August 21st. A little sick from eating too much fresh beef. In daily expectation of
                                    going to the mouth of the river. All are anxious to be allowed to moove up into the
                                    interior of the country. The health of our regiment better. The climate of this
                                    country is decidedly more pleasant than Indiana or indeed any place I have ever been
                                    in. It is one of the richest countries in the world. The necessaries &
                                    comforts of life are produced spontaneously. All the tropical fruits could be
                                    produced here in perfection, but the present inhabitants are altogether unworthy of
                                    such a country. It is an abuse of the bounty of providence to let such a race of
                                    drones & slaves [cumber?] so goodly a heritage, but they are do[o]med to be
                                        
                              
                                 13 Quartermaster-Sergeant James F. Harney, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 14 Captain William Powers, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 15 Lieutenant Allen May, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 16 Private Fenelon Goss, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 17 Second Lieutenant Romulus L. Hanks, Company K,
                                            First Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     swallowed up in the all-engulphing vo[r]tex of
                                    Anglo-Saxon enterprize & ambition. Wrote to day to my dear Joan.
                        August 22d, 1846. A visit from the Revd. Mr. Belote and a talk of Indiana &
                                    old times & the Methodist Church. Fine clear day & fine sea breeze.
                                    Disappointed in not getting a letter from my dear Joan, but hope to get one on
                                    tomorrow & that hope holds me up for another day. Laying plans for a trip to
                                    Carmargo & if possible to Monterey18 on a furlough, for
                                    our troops will not be ordered to march for five or six weeks.
                        August 23d, 1846. Another Sunday has passed. I hope I have not been wholly unmindful
                                    of its obligations & privileges, but again I have to lament the impiety
                                    & blasphemy which reigns in our camp & I suppose in all camps. Wars
                                    are the very engines by which the prince of evil peoples Hell.
                        August 24th, 1846. Received the news of our election19 &
                                    it created more sensation than I should have supposed from the indifference that
                                    seemed to prevail in camp on the subject, but it only shows that politicks, like
                                    sin, is a natural element in human character, or perhaps both are but modifications
                                    of the same thing. At all events, you can not distroy either with[out] distruction
                                    to that strange [thing?] called man. Mr. Harney is prepareing to leave. He carries
                                    with him our warmest wishes for his success & prosperity in life. He is an
                                    honest man & an unpretending gentleman of fine talents. He has been sorely
                                    tried but bears it like a man.
                        August 25th, 1846. An exceedingly warm day with no breeze & a head ache
                                    & little tendency to fever. Heard of a revolution against Paredes20 in Mexico & the defection of the garrison &
                                    city of 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                    . The prospect of peace before Christmas is rather brightened. Give us a
                                    peace with the Rio Grande for a present boundary & the full possession of 
                                        California
                                     & full payment of all claims for indemnities!
                        August 26, 1846. A dull day with nothing to mark it from its fellows &
                                    nothing to cause it to be remembered by me except this memorial of its its tedium
                                    & dullness.
                        
                           
                              18 Monterrey.
                           
                              19 The state election of 1846 in which James Whitcomb was
                                        re-elected governor and the Democrats were generally victorious as they had been
                                        in 1843.
                           
                              20 President Mariano Paredes y Arrillaga.
                        
                        
                        August 27th. A very hard rain & I have serious apprehension of an overflow of
                                    the river & consequent fever from miasma. A low grade of congestive fever
                                    has appeared in camp & the doctors think it dangerous if not taken in time.
                                    They [think] it will not do to give calomel, that the patient commences to sink on
                                    the first attack, & instead of depletion they give stimulants from the
                                    start. My experience here confirms this theory.
                        August 28. A very oppressive & warm morning. My health is good. I am at
                                    length clear of dysentery, at least I hope so. I am a good [deal] enfeebled with
                                    tendency to cholic & headache & a morbid appetite that cleans out
                                    rations of any kind good or bad, sound or rotten. Last night wrote Col. Willson
                                    [&] to my brother.21 A little anxiety getting up in camp
                                    about the election. Not much with me.
                        August 29th, 1846. Started to the mouth of the river with Genl. Lane22 to see Commodore Webster about the plan for an attack on Tampico in which
                                    he wishes our brigade to cooperate, if Genl. Taylor will consent (which he never
                                    will do). Had to turn back. Could not get the horses over the canal. Genl. Lane went
                                    down afoot. He is a man of great energy, which is the secret of his success. I like
                                    him. He is very kind to me, grants all my request[s], & treats [me] with
                                    great respect & seems to court my friendship. I prophecy to day that the war
                                    is over & that within 60 day[s] from today we shall be disbanded. For the
                                    next month we shall have a great amount of sickness. A number of new cases of fever
                                    in camp today. The prospect of peace seems to depress the spirits of the troops
                                    & renders them indifferent about discipline & drill. They still talk
                                    large about fighting, but the news of peace would be welcome to the most of us. An
                                    honerable peace would be hailed with joy by me, for one, for anything is preferable
                                    to our present state of inaction & suspense. I am satisfied that we shall
                                    never see a hostile Mexican. Then why in the name of justice, policy, &
                                    common sense are we kept here to die of fevers & to swell the expenses of
                                    the government? It is to make a hero of Taylor, to save Folk's
                                    administration, & to 
                              
                                 21 Colonel Samuel C. Wilson of 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                            , and Higgins Lane of 
                                                Putnam County
                                            .
                              
                                 22 General Joseph Lane of 
                                                Evansville
                                            , nominee for the Vice-Presidency in 1860 when John C.
                                            Breckenridge was the presidential nominee of the Southern Democrats.
                           
                                     feed the lean & hungry democrats who
                                    swarm around the army in the shape of commissaries, quarter masters, sutlers, id
                                    omne genus to the end of the chapter.
                        Sunday morning, August 30th, 1846. A violent storm of rain commenceing before day
                                    & flooding our tents & suspending the cooking business until a late
                                    breakfast hour. Some apprehensions of a rise in the river & the overflow of
                                    our camp. Sickness in camp still increasing. Oh that October were here! Wrote this
                                    morning to my dear Joan. I have here two unfailing sources of consolation &
                                    they are writing to my wife & looking at her picture. I find my thoughts
                                    recurring often towards home. It is barely possible that I am getting home sick;
                                    indeed for the last few days I have rather suspected that such is the case.
                        Monday morning, August 31st. A warm, very warm day & a return of dysentery.
                                    The news from above looks like peace, but we shall probably be detained here until
                                    winter or spring. If I was sure that the fighting was over I should be anxious to go
                                    home, for anything rather than a life of inactivity & suspense. The glitter
                                    & tinsil & romance of war is completely worn off, & my
                                    patriotism or ambition or both are sensibly decreaseing, & I look back to 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                     with a longing desire to be there again at the home of the heart.
                        Sept. 1st, 1846. First day in our new camp. Got an order for lumber to make me a cot
                                    or bed from Capt. Ogden,23 & also for lumber for a cot
                                    for Capt. May. Capt. Ogden is a good officer & clever fellow. Loaned me a
                                    bacon ham last night when I was out of meat. Today fresh beef & onions
                                    & oysters. A. Morrison24 arrived this morning. He will
                                    suit this campaign.
                        Sept. 2d, 1846. Got a letter last night from my dear wife & father-in-law. It
                                    was better for me than all medicines & doctors in camp. Our present position
                                    is a pleasant one in some respects but in others Good Lord deliver us. The loose
                                    drifting sand is in our eyes, mouth, noise [nose] on our beds, in our victuals
                                    & drinking water. We are most truly & emphatically on a sandy
                                    foundation but I hope our position is favorable to health. I am gaining strength
                                    every day. This night will be the first on my new cot. Quite an improovement 
                              
                                 23 Probably Captain Edmund A. Ogden of the regular
                                            army.
                              
                                 24 Second Lieutenant Abisha L. Morrison, Company A,
                                            First Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     upon the sand bank, at least I hope so. In a
                                    campaign a few comforts go a long way. Ridge Goddard25 has just
                                    caught a cat fish weighting 40 lbs.
                        Sept. 3d, 1846. Nothing. Still have great cause to thank for good health. Much
                                    speculation as to the duration of the war, & the desire to return home is
                                    getting far more general owing to the fact that there is no present prospect of any
                                    active service.
                        Sept. 4th, 1846. Great trouble in the medical department. This department has been
                                    the subject of great complaint & not without abundant cause. It could not
                                    have been worse. Indeed, I have no doubt that more would have recovered without
                                    medicine. Dr. Miller26 has laboured but has not been sustained
                                    & could not do as well as he otherwise would. He is a gentleman. More news
                                    of peace, & it was gladly received by me, for one, for if the war is over,
                                    in God's name why not let us go home from this barren sand bank &
                                    grave yard? Wrote again to day to my dear wife Joan. This is one of my comforts, to
                                    tell her at least all that I do & think & feel, for without perfect
                                    confidence & true sympathy there can be no happiness in the holy estate of
                                    matrimony, the sweetness & holiest state or relation instituted by God on
                                    earth for his creatures. At all events so I myself think.
                        Sept. 5th, 1846. Bright & beautiful morning & fine pleasant breeze
                                    from the gulf, but every breeze seems freighted with death & disease. Fevers
                                    encrease both in the number of cases & violence of the attacks. Lts. Hanks
                                    & Goss both sick. The Administration is justly chargeable for all the
                                    suffering & all the deaths incident to this campaign for a great many
                                    reasons, but two is sufficient. In the first place, the volunteer force was not
                                    needed, & secondly if needed they were not needed & could not be
                                    used until fall.
                        Sept. 6th, 1846. Sunday. Read the Bible & thought of home, but was a dull
                                    day. Heard of James Wray's27 death. He died at Point
                                    Isabel on the 4 instant.
                        Monday, 7th. Mustered into the service of the 
                                        United States
                                     for payment, & the anxiety for payment very great among the
                                    troops. No money in camp.
                        
                           
                              25 Private Resin F. Goddard, Company K, First Regiment
                                        Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                              26 Perhaps Dr. John L. Miller, surgeon with the Sixth
                                        Regiment 
                                            Illinois
                                         Volunteers.
                           
                              27 Private James Wray, Company K, First Regiment Indiana
                                        Volunteers.
                        
                        
                        Sept. 8th. Lt. Goss very sick with a low grade of congestive fever, the same form of
                                    fever which has carried off so many of our troops. Thomas also quite sick with same
                                    fever. We hope to save them. My own health not so good. Some tendency to fever
                                    & fullness in the head.
                        Sept. 9th. On last evening got a letter from my dear wife in answer to mine of the
                                    24th of July, 1846, in which I gave her an account of our shipwreck. I was much
                                    affected by the simple pathos, deep feeling, & unaffected piety which
                                    pervaded her letter. If ever I feel the power of religion it will be under Heaven
                                    owing to her gentle & sweet influence exercized upon my harsh &
                                    stubborn nature. I feel that I am better while I read her words of wisdom &
                                    truth. Nothing new in camp. Sickness about as usual. I am preparing to go to
                                    Metamores to get pay. Shall remain probably a week for my health, & to see
                                    the country, &c.
                        Sept. 10th. Went to Matamores on the steam boat. Col. Cross in company with Capts.
                                    May & Roberts.28
                        
                        Sept. 18th. Returned from Matamores having been absent one week & during that
                                    week Lt. Goss died on the 14th. On the 13th John Bratten29 died.
                                    On the 15th William Hopper30 died. They were all good men
                                    & their death caused gloom in the company. They all died of fever. Our
                                    physicians have not been able to manage this disease. We shall bury a great many of
                                    our best men before we leave this miserable camp. Drew at Matamores the pay
                                    &c. for two months & ten days—$320.19. A draft
                                    on 
                                        New York
                                     for $220.19 cents which I have put in a small pocket book in
                                    my trunk & one hundred in silver. Paid my servant, Frederick Eller,
                                    $10.00 on yesterday.
                        Sept. 19, 1846. We are looseing out of the regiment from congestive fever about two
                                    each day & no medicines in the hospital & so far as our surgeon
                                    & assistant surgeon is concerned we would be far better without either. They
                                    do not & cannot arrest the disease. Oh for a thousand tongues to curse the
                                    madness & folly of Folk's administration in bringing 
                              
                                 28 Captain John H. Roberts, Company A, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 29 Private John Bratton, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 30 Private William N. Hopper, Company K, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     northern troops here in the most sickly season
                                    of the year & when we were not needed & could not be used.
                        Sept. 20. Sunday & rather more quiet than usual. The sickness has one good
                                    effect—it seems to sober the minds of men & officers. Our
                                    position is alarming on account [of] the malignant fever now prevailing, &
                                    if men can be brought to think upon their latter end our situation must induce
                                    serious reflection upon the frail tenure of our life in camp. Today Goddard, Morgan,
                                    Mandy, Capt. Powers, Gott, Bratten, & Chambers & Dickey.31 Some of them were sick and should have gone. Others were
                                    afraid of the Mexicans & others merely homesick.
                        Sept. 21st, 1846. The equinoctial storm has commenced in good earnest & many
                                    of the tents were blown [down]. The wind was accompanied with torrents of rain which
                                    seems to have cooled the air. I hope this change in the air will be favorable to
                                    health, at least so far that there will not be so many new cases of fever, but I
                                    fear all the old cases will terminate fatally & that in a short time. I have
                                    been for 3 days afflicted with a pain in my head from the influence of the heat
                                    & light of the sun. I fear such is the fact but may be deceived.
                        Sept. 22d, 1846. The spirits of the troops is fast failing & they are giveing
                                    way to gloom & desponding & God knows they have enough cause. Last
                                    night I was thinking of home & the dear one there & just as I had
                                    fixed the whole scene in my imagination the sad, solemn, & wild wail of the
                                    funeral march struck upon my ear. I had heard it often before, alas, too often, but
                                    never before with such feelings. I thought of the gallant young men whom I had
                                    induced to leave their home & all its comforts for the pestilential vapours
                                    & poisonous breath of a southern clime until every note of the funeral sunk
                                    like a leaden weight upon my heart & allmost stilled its pulsations. I could
                                    not help thinking that I in some sort was responsible for their death, & the
                                    thought planted daggers in my soul & I became a very child. Tears came to my
                                    relief. I tried to call up reason, fortitude, phylosophy to my aid but all in vain.
                                    At last I thought of religion & the blessed light of revelation shone full
                                    upon God's providence making 
                              
                                 31 Privates Resin F. Goddard, James R. Morgan, Philip
                                            Mandy, Jonathan Gott, George Bratton, William G. Chambers, Robert S. Dickey,
                                            and Captain William Powers were all discharged.
                           
                                     all light with faith & hope and bidding
                                    me to hope & trust in him who is stronger than strength, to fear not though
                                    the clouds are dark & the storm rages never so fiercely. For we have an
                                    interest in the mighty master of the storm, an interest as sure & steadfast
                                    as the foundations of His throne. The habit of playing the dead march at funerals in
                                    camp is, I think, decidedly unfavorable upon the sick. It needs all their strenghth
                                    & manhood to sustain them under their trials here, & the influence
                                    of the music is deeply depressing upon their spirits, & they are reminded of
                                    the great probability that the next time their comrades shall march to the sad notes
                                    of that most gloomy air their steps will lead to their graves. Another custom we
                                    have in camp here it is to bury at night. The effect of this is also injurious. The
                                    funeral of a fellow mortal is gloomy enough when surrounded by friends & in
                                    the full glare of broad day light, but it is rendered doubly solemn, impressive,
                                    & affecting when it is performed at night with no one to sympathize but
                                    strangers, nothing to interrupt the felt silence but the wailing of the dead march,
                                    & the far off & bright stars, those constant & everlasting
                                    witnesses of human woe & misery, looking down as if ready to melt with pity
                                    for man's passion, madness, & crime. When will man learn that he is
                                    the brother & friend of man & [not] his natural & sworn
                                    enemy? Never, until the mild spirit of the gospel which is the spirit of peace shall
                                    pervade our sin-crushed world.
                        Sept. 23d. We still look with anxiety to hear from Genl. Taylor's advance
                                    upon Monterey. If he takes the place without a fight I shall conclude that there is
                                    no fight in the Mexicans, & if they make fight & are defeated, with
                                    as large a force as they are represented to have, they cannot embody another force
                                    sufficient to arrest Taylor's march, & the prospect of peace will
                                    be increased. Before this time Buckhannan's letter of the 27th of July has
                                    been received in Mexico & we shall know how it was received there.32 Two months will determine whether we are to have peace before
                                    Christmas or whether we shall prosecute the war more vigorously. If the city of
                                    Mexico is ever invaded successfully it 
                              
                                 32 A reference to James Buchanan, then Secretary of
                                            State, whose request of July 27, 1846, inviting negotiations with the
                                            Mexican government, was answered in a "lofty and cutting
                                            strain" by Mexican minister Rejón. Smith, The War with Mexico, II, 122.
                           
                                     must be from 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                     or Tampico. It never can be on Taylor's present line of
                                    operations from the Rio Grande owing to the difficulty of transportation, the
                                    character of the country, & the distance from the Rio Grande to the city.
                                    The plan of the campaign has been wrong if Mexico was the object, but well enough if
                                    peace is made at the end of the present campaign. The volunteers should have been
                                    kept at home & drilled until the last of Sept. & then taken direct
                                    to 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                     & Tampico & from thence been marched direct to the city
                                    of Mexico. In that way one campaign would have ended the war & the troops
                                    would not have been exposed to the dangers incident to the southern climate. Our
                                    regiment has lost over forty brave & noble fellows, & nothing gained
                                    by it. The Administration has been guilty of gross folly, premeditated wickedness.
                        Sept. 24th, 1846. The fevers are on the increase & no medicine in camp.
                                        Jones33 has managed the medical department in my opinion as
                                    badly as it could have been done. Last night heard of the taking of Monterey.34 The prospect of peace brightens. God grant a speedy and an
                                    honorable peace, for this campaign has presented scenes over which stern manhood has
                                    wept & could not refuse the deep tribute of its tears.
                        Sept. 25th, 1846. Fixed the price on the sutlers' goods. All sutlers are
                                    extortioners, at least my experience of them induces me to believe so, for Paris C.
                                    Dunning, Lt. Governor,35 & that thing 
                                        Kent
                                     surely belong to that class so heavily denounced in holy writ. They
                                    sell whiskey at 50 cents a pint, cheese at 50 cents per lb., rice at 30 cents a
                                    pound, & potatoes at 5 cents a piece, loaf sugar at 35 cents per lb. If this
                                    does not amount to extortion there is no use or meaning in words. But enough of
                                    these creatures.
                        Sept. 26th, 1846. A continued & violent wind & great apprehension of
                                    our whole camp being overflowed & in that event the whole regiment will be
                                    lost unless by some chance a part of them should be fortunate enough to escape on
                                    boats. There is no kind of necessity for incurring such risks. There 
                              
                                 33 Surgeon C. V. Jones, First Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers.
                              
                                 34 Monterrey was finally captured September 28, 1846.
                                            For an account of the battle, see Smith, The War with
                                            Mexico, I, chap. XII; Brainerd Dyer, Zachary Taylor, (
                                                Baton Rouge
                                            , 1946), chap. IX.
                              
                                 35 For an account of Paris C. Dunning's
                                            activities during the war see Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican
                                            War," 269–270.
                           
                                     is no Mexicans to fight & will not be,
                                    & the whole war cry on the part of the administration has been a regular
                                    blow.
                        Sept. 27th, 1846. Sunday & rather more quiet than common owing to the fact
                                    that a great number of the troops are sick. The violent northers have prevailed for
                                    three days & blown the water of the gulf out into the river above our camp
                                    & rendered the water brackish & salt. It has brought bowel complaint
                                    on the men again & is as unpleasant as water can be. The men &
                                    officers are all, with the exception of Col. Drake,36 very
                                    anxious to moove our camp up the river. This should be done by all means. We are
                                    nearly all sick here & without wood or water fit to drink, & the
                                    drifting sand gets into everything we drink or eat, & the effects of it is
                                    most seriously & injuriously felt on the eyes. A worse encampment for the
                                    fall or winter cauld not have been selected. The whole volunteers corps have been
                                    treated like dogs in this campaign & the Indiana brigade has been worse used
                                    than any other, probably because they have been more uncomplaining. The Drs. say
                                    that men cannot live as we are situated. We are in a fair way to try the experiment
                                    as there seems no present prospect of things getting better. We shall, I hope, have
                                    more sense the next time than to put ourselves in such a position.
                        Monday 28th. The same as yesterday only all the evils of this cursed camp is getting
                                    more & more intolerable. It is enough to make the most patient complain
                                    & the most pious swear. Why are we here? Why has our brigade been left
                                    behind all the rest? Some one must answer these questions.
                        Sept. 29th. Heard of Taylor's victory or rather of Ampudia's37 capitulation, for it was hardly a victory as I understand the
                                    report of the battle. Taylor gained possession of Monterey, to be sure, but on such
                                    terms as shows plainly that the enemy were not in his possession. It is rather a
                                    drawn battle, but the truce agreed on will, I think, end in a peace.
                        Sept. 30th. Wrote to day to my father-in-law, Major Elston, an account of
                                    Taylor's victory, for I can find no other name for it, although it was not
                                    much of a victory after all. 
                              
                                 36 Colonel James P. Drake, First Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers.
                              
                                 37 General Pedro de Ampudia of the Mexican
                                        army.
                           
                                     The health of the regiment is thought to be
                                    rather better, but God knows we have suffered enough.
                        Oct. 1st, 1846 is here, & oh how I have looked for the first of October in
                                    the hope that sickness would abate, & the result seems to proove that the
                                    worst of our sickness is over. There has been no new case of fever for 7 or 8 days.
                                    Our fevers now be intermittent & not of so dangerous a type.
                        Oct 2d, 1846. We have now cold nights & heavy dews & very warm days.
                                    There is great desire among the troops to return home, believing that there is to be
                                    no fighting. I am looking for a letter from my dear wife. I am anxious to learn
                                    whether she is comeing to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     so as to make my arrangements for meeting her there.
                        Oct. 3d, 1846. No letter from my dear wife for three weeks. Oh how I do long to hear
                                    from her. Married men ought not to go to war. It is not required of them by any
                                    consideration of duty [or] of public policy, & for one I am satisfied that I
                                    am on my last campaign.
                        Oct. 4th. Another Sunday but no day of rest. The camp is all in a stew about four
                                    companies getting off to guard a train of wagons to Monterey. Rumors are rife of our
                                    removal up the country. All are anxious to go. We have been most rascally treated in
                                    not being allowed to go up in the time for battle a[t] Monterey. Gross favoritism
                                    has prevailed over justice & propriety. Our brigade left home before the 
                                        Illinois
                                     troops & part of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     troops & before the 
                                        Illinois
                                     brigade, & still all these troops have been ordered up the
                                    country before us & we have been left to die here on this accursed sand
                                    bank. We also crossed the gulf first & our brigade is composed of as good
                                    material as theirs. Political considerations & influences have decided our
                                    fate & in time the world shall know how our state has been degraded in the
                                    persons of her volunteer officers & troops. But enough of this sickening
                                    subject.
                        Oct. 5th, 1846. Received a letter from my dear Joan. She wrote rather gloomily
                                    & I reproached myself most bitterly for ever haveing left her. Oh how she
                                    suffers from all the combined horrors of suspense, fear & hope defered. But
                                    if it is the will of the Lord to let me return I will devote the remnant of my days
                                    to his service & to promote the comfort & happiness of my dear
                                    devoted wife.
                        
                        Oct. 6th, 1846. Another mail is in & I am anxiously looking for a letter from
                                    my Joan informing me when she will be at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     so that I can go over to see her. A trip across is to me not a very
                                    pleasant one & frought with danger, but to see her I would brave all the
                                    perils of any gulf of which we read except the gulf which divides the sick man
                                    & Lazarus, & oh I pray & hope that the day of destiny will
                                    find us both on the same side of that impassible gulf.
                        Oct. 7th. Had a spell of cramp cholic & afterwards fever. A cure for cholic
                                    [is] heated plates or boards to the stomack & a mustard plaster &
                                    opium & camphor or strong brandy taken inwardly & constant rubbing
                                    of the stomack, hands, & feet & if necessary mustard plaster of hot
                                    applications to the extremities.
                        8th Oct. From this date to the 15th sick at Matamores & taking medicine all
                                    the time. Write to my dear mother. Fear that Joan will be uneasy about my health
                                    from the tenor of my letter to Mother. Oh how I miss the kind nurseing of my dear
                                    Joan when I am sick.
                        Oct. 15th, 1846. Returned to the camp of the mouth of the river in improved health.
                                    Got a furlough from Genl. Lane for fifty days for the purpose of traveling for my
                                    health & going over to see my dear wife at 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .
                        Oct. 16, 17, 18, 19, & 20th. Waiting anxiously to get a letter from my wife
                                    informing me as to when she would be in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     & on the 20th received three letters from her filled with love
                                    & tenderness & noble sentiments. She wrote to me that she had
                                    abandoned the idea of comeing south. This was to her a great sacrifice &
                                    grievous disappointment. She is the best woman extant. This she done to obey me
                                    & for fear that I might be lost in the gulf in comeing over to see her. Oh
                                    if love, pure, unmixed, & undyeing, can repay her for such devotion she is
                                    & shall be repaid.
                        Oct. 21st. Started to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . Got as far as the Brazos & concluded not to go for my
                                    conscience told me that the step I was about to take was wrong, that I ought not to
                                    leave the gallant boys whom I had induced to volunteer. I found that I could not
                                    leave them. I was as anxious as I could possibly be to see my dear wife &
                                    had a great struggle between my duty & my inclination, but thank God in this
                                    case my duty prevailed & I have the approbation of my
                                    conscience—more  to me than the all
                                    else besides—for what is the approveing shout of the million compared
                                    with the still small voice of the man within?
                        Oct. 22d. Wrote two letters to my dear Joan, one directed to 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                     & one to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , explaining to her the reason why I could not come to see her.
                        Oct. 23d. Rode up to Palo Alto where I joined Capts. May & Roberts &
                                    their companies whither they had gone for the health of the troops. The place is a
                                    very pleasant encampment & is certainly healthy if there is any healthy
                                    situation on this cursed river.
                        Oct 24th. The boys are killing plenty of game & catching fine fish. Yesterday
                                    Capt. May's company brought in 3 rabbits & seven geese &
                                    two very fine fish. We have now plenty of sweet milk, corn bread, & roasting
                                    ears & fresh eggs & our liveing is decidedly good compared with any
                                    thing we have had before on the river. I had forgotten to except as to musketoes
                                    & seed ticks. They are here in great force.
                        Oct. 25th, 1846. Sunday. The boys spent in fishing, hunting, & feasting. I
                                    spent it helping Major Cravens38 hunt his horse & in
                                    visiting the Mexican ranches to get something good to eat. Got green corn, eggs,
                                    corn bread, & sweet milk, & Eph Woodruff39 gave
                                    us a part of a fine catfish.
                        Oct. 26th. A rainey morning morning with the appearance of the commencement of long
                                    rainey spell, which God forbid, as we have poor protection from it in our old thin
                                    worn out tents. But we must take it as it comes, & therewith try to be
                                    content.
                        27th of Oct. Went to Matamores to wait on Capt. Roberts & remained there
                                    until the 5th of Dec. during which time I had a very severe spell of congestive
                                    fever succeeded by chills. Gambling, drinking, & all the kindred vices
                                    seemed to be on the increase in Metamores. This place seems to be as ripe for
                                    God's vengeance as Sodom & Gomorrow were when the Brimstone began
                                    to fall.
                        Dec. 5th. Returned home, that is to camp at the mouth of the Rio Grande. Brought down
                                    the news of the order from Genl. Patterson40 for us to moove
                                    towards Monterey. The 
                              
                                 38 Major James A. Cravens, Second Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers.
                              
                                 39 Sergeant Ephram Woodruff, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 40 Major General Robert Patterson of the Volunteer
                                            Army.
                           
                                     order was most joyously received. I made to the
                                    regiment about 10 o'clock at night a short speech which the boys responded
                                    to most cordially.
                        Dec. 6th. Sunday. Wrote a letter to my Joan & fixed up some shells to send to
                                    her by Mr. Bohon. Spent this day in reading & in think[ing] of home
                                    & all of my dear friends there & in building air castles to be
                                    inhabited in future.
                        Dec. 7th, 1846. Nothing of interest except a spell of sick headache which lasted
                                    until late at night. The boys of the mess very kind but no one can wait on me as
                                    well as My Joan.
                        
                        Dec. 8th, 1846. A very sudden change in the weather from very warm to quite cold
                                    accompanied by a severe northern wind as such changes always are in this country.
                                    The boys are all exceedingly anxious for a moove & so am I for any change
                                    from this miserable grave yard must be for the better.
                        Dec. 9th, 1846. Last night a small portion of the Cass Company went over the river
                                    & burnt up a grocery & a shed attached. This was done to revenge a
                                    beating which had been inflicted upon two of that company by the Mexicans. Yesterday
                                    being pay day about one third of the boys were drunk. The regiment had been suffered
                                    to do as they please for so long a time that anything like restraint sets hard upon
                                    the troops. The example of the officers upon the privates is anything but wholesome.
                                    When officers get drunk & forget the office they hold it is not strange it
                                    is not strange that men imitate them.
                        Dec. 10th, 1846. Left the mouth of the Rio Grande for Monterey. The troops, officers
                                    & men, in fine spirits. The prospect of a fight seemed to put new life into
                                    them. The[y] marched towards the battlefield as to a place of amusement, but in a
                                    few short months or weeks many hearts that now beat high with hope will be still in
                                    death. Reached Mata-mores in the morning of the 11th.
                        Dec. 11th. Left Metamores for Carmargo. There seems no bounds to the buoyancy of the
                                    troops. There is after all is said about the privations of a soldier's life
                                    something deeply exciting in camp life. The pageantry & eclat of arms will
                                    interest man as long as his nature remains unchanged. Warfare seems to be our
                                    natural trade, & the history of the world is but a recital of heroes
                                    & their butcheries.
                        
                        Dec. 12th. Still on our winding way to Carmargo, & it is most emphatically a
                                    winding way for no river in the world is more tortuous than the Rio Grande. Passed
                                    Reynosa, a small village situated on the river on fine rising ground. Here we
                                    encounter the first rock formation as we pass up from the gulf. The rock is a kind
                                    of soft like stone. The population of this village is about 1500 or 2000. It is of
                                    no great importance in a military point of view but on the passage up the river by
                                    Genl. Taylor it was in the beginning of the war a convenient depot for munitions of
                                    war & provisions. It is now garrisoned by two companies of regulars.
                        Dec. 13th, 1846. This day is Sunday. Read in the Bible & thought much of home
                                    & the loved one there & lived over again the happy days now passed
                                    & gone. Very pleasant traveling companions but most wretched fare on the
                                    boat, & I must chronicle the name of our steamboat, the "J. E.
                                    Roberts"— a fine running boat but with the Capt. money seems the
                                    only object, as indeed it is with all contractors, sutlers, camp followers,
                                    & government agents. The government seems to be considered fair prey by the
                                    gentry above specified.
                        Dec. 14th, 1846. Reached Camargo, a town situated on the San Juan four miles above
                                    its junction with the Rio Grande. This town has, as all Mexican towns has, a plaza
                                    & Catholic church. It is a very poor place & accounted very sickly.
                                    It is much dreaded on account of dust in dry weather & rain in wet. It is
                                    altogether the least desirable place to reside that I have seen in Mexico.
                        Dec. 15th. Spent this day in getting mules & breaking them for our march to
                                    Monterey & saw Genl. Marshall41 & purchased his
                                    fine duelling pistols for $35. Found the Genl. very clean & kind.
                                    All is anxiety to be on the moove.
                        Dec. 16th, 1846. Wrote to my dear wife in the morning & then was very busily
                                    employed in assisting to get the regiment ready to march. Shot with Genl. Lane with
                                    pistols & beat him. It was, however, an accident as he is a fine shot
                                    & I shoot but indifferently well.
                        Dec. 17th, 1846. Still at this general depot of all the dust in Northern Mexico but
                                    with fair prospects of leaving on tomorrow or the next day. While writing I am
                                    suffering 
                              
                                 41 Brigadier General Thomas Marshall of the Volunteer
                                            Army.
                           
                                     from a most intolerable attack of sick headache
                                    & get no place out of the reach of the dust & the heat of the sun.
                                    Oh for the quiet of home & the dear one to nurse me.
                        Dec. 18th. As yesterday only more so if possible.
                        Dec. 19th, 1846. Left Camargo with the regiment for Monterey & after going on
                                    six or eight miles met an order from Genl. Butler42 made in
                                    ignorance of Genl. Patterson's order & ordering us back, 8
                                    companies to Matamoros & two companies to the mouth. Genl. Lane &
                                    Col. Drake very promptly & very properly refused obedience to the order
                                    & also an order of Genl. Marshall made out. It would seem on his own hook
                                    our Col. ordered the regiment to which they most readily obeyed.
                        Dec. 20th, 1846. Left the regiment in company with Genl. Lane & escort for
                                    Monterey. Took dinner at Mier, a small but beautiful village celebrated for a
                                    sanguinary battle fought there between the Texans & Mexicans & also
                                    for the beauty & modest deportment of its women. They are very fair for
                                    Mexico, but oh how different from our women. From Mier we
                                    proceeded to Pont Aquada,43 a small village where we staid all
                                    night. The country from Mier is generally barren.
                        Dec. 21. Left Pont Auquada & travelled over a most barren & desolate
                                    country forty five miles & staid all night at the deserted ranche with the
                                    Third Regiment. During this day's travel we had the first sight of the
                                    mountains & a most georgeous & magnificent sight it was. Sunrise
                                    upon Sierra Madre range— it surpassed in gradeur & loveliness any
                                    view I have seen among the Alleganies of my own loved land.
                        Dec. 22d. Saw Genl. Taylor at his camp. He was very polite & affable,
                                    complimented Indiana & her volunteers, & I prophecy that he was
                                    thinking of the Presidency. He is plain in his dress & appearance &
                                    his countenance does not indicate great talent. But great talent for military
                                    affairs he certainly has. But still he does not fill my idea of a hero.
                        Dec. 23d, 24th, & 25th. Remained at Monterey. This in a military point of
                                    view [is a] very strong place & it was a most brilliant affair to take it.
                                    But the takeing of that place has not advanced us towards a peace one inch. It is an
                                    injury to us. Monterey is a very beautiful city haveing a population of 15 or 20
                                    thousand inhabitants. It is situated in 
                              
                                 42 Major General William O. Butler of the Volunteer
                                            Army.
                              
                                 43 Perhaps Lane is referring to Puerto de Agua.
                           
                                     the midst of lofty mountains & is
                                    surrounded by a small, well cultivated valley & it one time was a place of
                                    great wealth. It is now on the decline, but its former oppulence may be seen in its
                                    splendid cathedral & extensive public improovements. The remains of the
                                    Bishop's Pallace is well worthy the attention of the traveller. It must
                                    have cost in its erection $50,000. In this country all the wealth seems
                                    to flow into the coffers of the church as naturally as water flows down hill.
                        Dec. 26th. Left Monterey for Saltillo & staid all night with Col.
                                        Lane's44 regiment five miles from town.
                        Dec. 27th, 1846. Started for Saltillo in company with Lt. Brown45
                                    of 
                                        Logansport
                                     who is an excellent officer & first rate gentleman. Staid all
                                    night at the celebrated pass half way from Monterey to Saltillo. This is now
                                    deserted but there has been a rich farm here & a fine hacienda.
                        Dec. 28th. Reached Saltillo, a city built of unburnt brick plastered. It [is] very
                                    finely watered & is surrounded by a fertile valley of small extent. It is
                                    larger than Monterey & shows more evidence of style & wealth. It is
                                    over two thousand feet higher than Monterey & is said to be healthy. Saw
                                    fine wheat growing here. The people in this mountain region are superior in body
                                    & mind to the inhabitants of the low lands along the Rio Grande. Saw Butler.
                                    He was very polite & attentive to us.
                        Dec. 29 & 30th. Remained at Saltillo & saw Genl. Worth.46 More pleased with his appearance and conversation than I have been with
                                    any officer in the regular army. He is all out a soldier & has in his nature
                                    all the elements of a hero, & if our country is to be cursed with a long
                                    continued state of war, Worth is after Genl. Scott47 the best
                                    man who could be selected to lead our armies.
                        Dec. 31st. Left for Monterey on my return & travelled the same route that I
                                    had passed which is the most barren & undesirable of any country of the same
                                    extent I have ever seen.
                        Jan. 1st, 1847. Staid at Monterey.
                        
                           
                              44 Colonel James H. Lane of the Third Regiment Indiana
                                        Volunteers.
                           
                              45 First Lieutenant William L. Brown, Company G, First
                                        Regiment ment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                              46 General William J. Worth.
                           
                              47 General Winfield Scott.
                        
                        
                        Jan. 2d, 1847. Left Monterey for Matamoros where I arrived after a tedious journey on
                                    the 12th of Jan., haveing experienced cold weather, snow &
                                    ice—two things very rare in this genial or rather burning climate. The
                                    regiment in good health & fine spirits & all seemed glad to see me.
                        Jan. 13th. In camp. Attended drill & got letters & presents from the
                                    dear one at home. God bless her.
                        January 14th, 1847. Today reviewed the regiment by order of Col. Drake. The boys
                                    acquitted themselves, both officers & men, with great credit in my poor
                                    judgement.
                        Jan. 15th, 1847. Attended drill & had a spell of sick headache.
                        Jan. 16th, 1847. Received a letter from my dear Joan dated Dec. 15th, and answered
                                    it. It was just such a letter as I like to get. It made me it filled the eyes
                                    & warmed the heart; it spoke of anxiety & love & devotion
                                    which woman, fond devoted woman, can alone feel or properly express. Men may write
                                    essays, history &c., but give me a woman for a letter.
                        January 17th, 1847. Sunday. Wrote to the dear one & also to Ben Ristine [and]
                                    Alexander Thomson.48 Read some & attended drill. This I
                                    did not think right but it is the order & we are sworn to obey orders. It is
                                    said that in the midst of arms laws are silent. It might be said with equal truth
                                    that in the midst of arms religion & morals are silent.
                        Jan. 18th, 1847. Wrote to Col. Willson, my old well tried & devoted friend,
                                    & also to my respected brother-in-law Walter Bowen of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , and was mustered into service for payment. In Capt. May's
                                    company up to this date there has been ten deaths. Oh the horrors of war &
                                    oh [the] iniquities of unjust war.
                        19th Jan., 1847. The usual parades. A cold norther blowing & the camp very
                                    uncomfortable. I have, however, good quarters in town at Mr. Gilmore's.
                                    They are very kind & very attentive, partly I suppose on account of my money
                                    & partly because I am a favorite with them all.49 They
                                    made to be sure an effort to be free in 1824 but the dark cloud of Catholic
                                    intolerance & ignorance has long since rested on the grave of their nominal
                                    freedom. They have never been free 
                              
                                 48 Ristine and Thompson were prominent 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                             attorneys.
                              
                                 49 At least a part of the entry for January 20 has
                                            been cut from the original manuscript.
                           
                                     in fact. A nation cannot be free with the
                                    popular mind enslaved. A man cannot be free with his soul in chains, whether
                                    spiritual or temporal. The only hope for Mexico is that she may be Americanised
                                    & religious toleration prevail. Then she may be free & never before.
                        Jan. 21st, 1847. No drill today on account of the cold weather & the boys
                                    were being paid off.
                        Jan. 22d, 1847. The cold weather still prevails & I still remain in camp.
                                    Capt. May quite sick & took up to my quarters in town, & with a
                                    little selk [self] control & with a great deal of control on the part of the
                                    others he controlled his appetite & is nearly well.50
                        
                        Janry 24th, 1847. The Sabbath. Staid at Mrs. Gilmore's in town. Fine dinner.
                                    Reading, writing &c. Beautiful morning like spring. I left in camp rumors of
                                    the moovement of troops. Nothing known yet.
                        January 25th, 1847. Commenced boarding at Mr. Gilmore's today at
                                    $16 per month. Very heavy fog, damp & disagreeable. The
                                    appearance of opening spring. Oppressive heat in the middle of the day.
                        January 26th, 1847. Visited the battlegrounds of Palo Alto & Resaca de la
                                    Palma. These battles under all the circumstances reflects the highest honor upon our
                                    regular army, both officers & men. I could not but feel some pride in the
                                    recollection of the 8th & 9th, but this pride as an American was dashed with
                                    some bitter reflections which I felt as a man. At Palo Alto the Mexican lines can
                                    yet be plainly traced across the open prairie by the unburied & whitening
                                    bones of her slain soldiery & their scattered uniforms & equipments.
                                    While gazeing upon the skeletons my imagination was busy in filling up the history
                                    of each mouldering remnant of manhood. I asked myself which or whether all of the
                                    dear social & household ties were severed when they fell; whether they left
                                    he left a fond mother to watch & pray for their return to that home they
                                    were distined never to see; whether he left a devoted [wife] to weep &
                                    wither in his absence; whether she believes the story of his death or yet watches
                                    for the dear form & listens for the well known footsteps which never more
                                    shall gladden her ear; whether the wild wail of the orphan mingles with the cry of
                                    the wife & the mother; or 
                              
                                 50 Here the entry for January 23 has been cut from the
                                            page.
                           
                                     whether he was only betrothed & the
                                    idol of his heart yet hopes for & believes he will yet return. Alas he is no
                                    bridegroom of hers. He is the bride groom of death, stern relentless. I thought also
                                    of the sorrow-stricken & bending form of the aged father & then I
                                    thought of the clenched hand & knit brow & bursting heart of the
                                    bereaved brother. Before I had half filled this heartsickening picture I turned with
                                    horrow & disgust from the humiliating scene. Oh there is a most fearful
                                    responsibility rests upon the heads of rulers who madly involve nations in war. One
                                    little incident upon the battleground touched me more than anything else. I found
                                    around the neck bone of a Mexican soldier a brass image of the Saviour with his
                                    string of beads upon which he told his prayers. I gazed upon this simple memento of
                                    his faith until I could allmost see the mortal agony which convulsed his manly frame
                                    in the death struggle & hear the thick breathing foretelling speedy
                                    dissolution, & then I saw the eye as it grew dim to all other impressions,
                                    grow bright as it gazed upon the image of the blessed Nazarine. I thought of the
                                    hasty, yet soul-felt prayer which he breathed in that dread hour to the blessed
                                    Saviour. Did he pray for himself? Oh no, his faith was confirmed by one look at his
                                    crucified Lord. He prayed for the dear loved & lost ones whom he left
                                    behind. I left these scenes of bloodshed & violence asking of myself if this
                                    was indeed glory, the glory of rational immortal man, if it is always to be
                                    accounted honerable to butcher our brethren. It cannot be. The dawn of a bright day
                                    is upon us when nations shall learn war no more forever. A visit to a recent
                                    battlefield speaks more eloquently of the horrors of war than all the books ever
                                    written or sermons ever spoken.
                        Jan. 27th, 1847. Very sudden change. Cold norther. Caught a severe cold &
                                    confined to bed.
                        Jan. 28th, 1847. The norther has ceased, the cold moderated. My cold better. Returned
                                    to camp disappointed in not getting a letter from my Joan but know it is no fault of
                                    hers but of the rascally post masters. Wrote to Capt. Powers about the claim of
                                    William W. Hopper.
                        January 29th, 1847. Wrote to my excellent young friend James Harney. Fine warm day.
                                    The peach & orange trees in bloom, but to me they have small beauty or
                                    fragrance for they only remind me of the bright & balmy spring which will
                                         soon open upon my far off home &
                                    bring no gladness to her who mourns my long delay.
                        Janry 30th, 1847. Drill as usual. Received a letter from my friend Dr. Herndon
                                    & answered it. The weather fine & warm. The boys rather down in the
                                    mouth because they are not to be taken to 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                    . I very much regret that we are not to be permitted to represent our
                                    state upon at least one glorious battlefield. I see now no prospect for active
                                    service before our time expires. It is better to deserve than to command good
                                    fortune. There is comfort in that maxim at all events.
                        January 31st, 1847. Sunday. Went to church & heard a fine sermon from Father
                                    McIlroy, a Catholic priest. There is charm in even the worst form of Christianity
                                    far surpassing the best form of heathenism. In this land of the stranger it is sweet
                                    to hear the strains of Gospel peace and grace.
                        Feb. 1st, 1847. Cold norther & nothing else.
                        Feb. 2d. Same as yesterday.
                        Feb. 3d, 1847. I was elected It. col., receiving 236 votes & Dr. Miller 84
                                    & Capt. Milroy51 69. I should have had no opposition I
                                    think but for one D. R. Eckles,52 but I am pleased that they
                                    shewed their hands & gave my friends an opportunity of rallying to me. I
                                    feel under grateful obligations to the regiment & under special obligations
                                    to Col. Drake, Capt. May, Lt. Hanks, Capt. Roberts, Mr. Albin.53
                                    The 
                              Fountain, Montgomery, Marion
                           ,
                                    Hendrix, & 
                                        Putnam
                                     companies went for me enmasse, & I receiv[ed] a good vote from
                                    the other companies. I care nothing for the office, but disliked to be superceded by
                                    an inferior in rank.
                        Feb. 4th, 1847. An election for major in my place. Wm. Donaldson of Capt.
                                        Evans'54 company elected. A fine clever fellow
                                    & a good & true friend of mine. I go for friends. Mooved into my new
                                    quarters with Col. Drake. Again I say he is a gentleman, a true gentleman.
                        Feb. 5th, 1847. Commenced with Col. Drake to help organize the town. The tippling
                                    houses & gambling houses 
                              
                                 51 Captain Robert H. Milroy, Company C, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 52 Captain Delana R. Eckles, First Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers.
                              
                                 53 Quartermaster-Sergeant William M. Albin, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 54 Captain R. M. Evans, Company D, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     must be suppressed & then good order
                                    follows as a matter of course.
                        Feb. 6th, 1847. Fine day, warm & pleasant. Drill. Thomas Owens55 died— a noble clever man. His brother in great distress. Oh
                                    the horrors of war. Ten deaths in my old company to this date. Am I not in some sort
                                    accountable for the lives of these young men? I did not intend them harm when I
                                    urged them to enlist; I thought of patriotism, honor, & glory, but to them
                                    what are all these things? They lost their homes, their relatives, their country;
                                    they died in the stranger's land. I hope they were prepared for the solemn
                                    & awful change. Few tears water their graves, & no stone points out
                                    the place of their rest, but in my heart their memory is fixed &
                                    time's effaceing fingers can never blot it out until life itself shall
                                    become extinct. Visited today the Senior Alcalde Mr. Manchacka, a gentleman, a
                                    scholar, & man of high talents & fine accomplishments. Had music on
                                    the harp & guitar & singing in Spanish. Gave us fruits &c
                                    for supper. Left much pleased with the evening's entertainment.
                        Feb. 7th, 1847. Sunday. Helped to enforce the closeing of all the stores, Mexican
                                    & American, in the city. To day the city did indeed present a Sabbath
                                    stillness. Read 15 chapters in the Bible. Thought of home & the dear good
                                    angel presiding there. Some how or other my dear becomes dear[er] as I feel more
                                    & more inclined to try to be good enough for her sweet society here
                                    & here after.
                        Feb. 8th, 1847. The usual routine of drill, plans for fortifying the city. Become
                                    acquainted with Col. Joseph Taylor,56 brother of Genl. Taylor
                                    whom he very much resembles. He was very kind to me. He is the son-in-law of Judge
                                        McLean.57 The Col. is very kind to me. He is a plain man of
                                    sense & a good officer. He mingles some little politicks in his military
                                    opperations, but on the whole is a noble, fine gentleman.
                        Feb. 9th, 1847. This day is only worth remembering because on it I received a letter
                                    from my dear Joan.
                        Feb. 10th, 1847. Visited in company with Col. Taylor Father McIlroy, a Catholic
                                    priest appointed by Mr. Polk. He 
                              
                                 55 Private Thomas Owens, Company K, First Regiment
                                            Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 56 Colonel Joseph Taylor was chief officer of the
                                            commissary department.
                              
                                 57 Associate Justice John McLean of the 
                                                United States
                                             Supreme Court.
                           
                                     is a man of great intelligence, of great
                                    suavity of manner, & he lives in style, has good wines & brandies.
                                    He does not neglect the creature comforts in his anxiety for the spiritual. He [is]
                                    I think the best informed man whom I have met in Mexico. He visits the sick
                                    & afflicted & I think will do much good in his present position. If
                                    all Catholic priests were like him there would be not half so much prejudice
                                    again[st] Catholism.
                        Feb. 11th, 1847. This is the aniversary of my wedding with dear Joanna. I have
                                    thought today much of her & of all the circumstances of becoming acquainted.
                                    Wrote her a letter in which I gave vent to some of [my] thoughts & feelings
                                    on the occasion. Commenced to fortify the town considerable of an attack from the
                                    Mexicans. My only fear is of a surprize. If we have notice we will make their visit
                                    anything but pleasant.
                        Feb. 12th, 1847. An alarm at night caused by the sentinel in the upper plaza fireing
                                    his gun. He saw 12 or 15 Mexicans in double file defileing past him. They were
                                    probably a party of robbers who have been appointed to collect a tax on goods
                                    imported into the interior, or it may be that they were a scouting party of
                                        Canales'58 men. The regiment here under arms in a
                                    few minutes & in good order & anxious for a fight. I was suddenly
                                    aroused out of bed, & my feelings were calmer than I had supposed they would
                                    be under such circumstances. I have no fears for our regiment in a fight in the day
                                    time if they stand a night alarm as they did tonight. Lt. Wallace59 of the day.
                        Feb. 13th. Still progressing with our fortifications. If the Mexicans wait on us two
                                    days longer they may bring on their bears. We have today a report that there are
                                    fifteen hundred Mexican cavalry in our vicinity. We can take care of them if they
                                    come, but it is necessary to keep a sharp look. The men now disposed to work
                                    & to all duty with promptness. They now think there is something to do. I
                                    had rather not die, but let them come.
                        Feb. 14th, 1847. Brought to the city three pieces of ordinance, one from Point Isabel
                                    & two from Fort Brown. Today 
                              
                                 58 General Antonio Canales of the Mexican army.
                              
                                 59 Second Lieutenant Lew Wallace, Company H, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers, well known later as a lawyer, Civil War
                                            general, and novelist, and brother-in-law of Henry S. Lane.
                           
                                     is the Sabbath but no one from the states would
                                    have supposed from the appearance of things that this is the holy Sabbath. We were
                                    busy all day at work upon our defences & in placeing our cannon. Oh if the
                                    spirit of the Poor Nazarine universally prevailed, these barberous preparations for
                                    death & devastation would all cease forever; if men in our Republic would
                                    only take as much trouble to spread the area of Christian civilization as they do to
                                    spread what they are pleased to misname the area of freedom, what a different state
                                    of things would prevail. If all the money which has been expended in this war had
                                    been expended to give the Gospel to the poor & deluded Mexican, oh what a
                                    glorious conquest we should make. Not a conquest of barren territory which if it is
                                    ever annexed to our Republic will only introduce dissention & end in a
                                    dissolution of our glorious confederacy, but a conquest of souls, immortal souls, a
                                    conquest over ignorance, intolerance, & the mental thraldom of the Mother of
                                    Harlots.
                        Feb. 15th, 1847. Continual alarms in the city but I think there is no danger if there
                                    is any considerable for it is an irregular ranchero party organized for plunder.
                        Feb. 16th, 1847. My health not very good for three or four days—billious.
                                    Sold my horse to Lt. Simmons60 for $50. Capt. Roberts
                                    very sick. I fear he will never see Indiana. He is an honest man & a good
                                    officer.
                        Feb. 17th, 1847. Rain & cold north wind, the spring rains commenceing.
                                    Received a letter from my brother-in-law James A. Elston. He is a noble fine boy.
                                    Wrote to me of my dear Joan & of course his letter was very welcome
                                    & very interesting.
                        Feb. 18th, 1847. Rain & cold weather today. Witnessed the funeral of Senor
                                    Siron, former Alcade of this place. It was a very imposeing parade & [a]
                                    great crowd attended of Mexicans & Americans. It like every other ceremony
                                    or institution or sacrament of the Catholic Church seemed wholly addressed to the
                                    senses of the crowd & was well calculated to captivate & lead astray
                                    the unthinking. It did not seem to me to have any of the stern simplicity &
                                    sublime spirituality of the true religion of the Poor Nazarine, but in charity let
                                    us hope that although we differ in many, very many respects 
                              
                                 60 Perhaps First Lieutenant Seneca G. Simmons of the
                                            regular army.
                           
                                     from these poor Catholic brethren, we may
                                    finally all find rest in the embraces of a common & all powerful Saviour.
                        Feb. 19th, 1847. Capt. Roberts & W. Hawkins61 died. A sad
                                    gloomy day. They died in the stranger's land far from home & all
                                    its sweet associations, but they fell like soldiers at their post in discharge of
                                    their duty & their grave was bedewed by tears from many a manly eye. They
                                    will rest as securely here as tho they had fallen in their own land. The loss of
                                    friends is deeply painful to me now but not so much as formerly, for now I have the
                                    sweet & blessed hope that I shall be united to my dear friends in a brighter
                                    & better world.
                        Feb. 20th, 1847. Wrote my dear Joan & attended Capt. Roberts'
                                    funeral— a mournful occasion. The soldier has many, very many more trying
                                    things to do than to face an enemy in the field. Oh the horrors, the manifold
                                    & countless horrors of war. No one can know them with actual experience.
                                    Still some alarms of an attack from the Mexicans. Slept none last night on account
                                    of the flees. It seems to me that if all the flees in the world could be collected
                                    together, at least one half of them would claim residence in Matamoros.
                        Feb. 21st, 1847. Beautiful weather. Nothing to register.
                        Feb. 22d, 1847. Capt. Lascelle62 gave a dinner to his company in
                                    honor of 
                                        Washington
                                    's birthday to which I was invited, & being called on
                                    made a short speech. The company requested a copy for publication. Furnished a copy
                                    for them to be published at home. This was perhaps the first celebration of the kind
                                    in Mexico.
                        Feb. 23d. The Mexicans have not yet paid us a visit to retake the city & all
                                    alarm on their account has ceased. The[y] will not come, I think. We are too well
                                    prepared to receive them.
                        Feb. 24th, 1847. My birthday to day. I am thirty seven years old. Done nothing to
                                    signalize it. My time upon earth is in the ordinary course of things more than half
                                    past & yet how little I have done to prepare for death. I will if the Lord
                                    will[s] do more in future. Yes, I will begin now. Resolutions to take effect in the
                                    future never do any good. It 
                              
                                 61 Private 
                                                Washington
                                             Hawkins, Company K, First Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 62 Captain Stanislaus Lasselle, Company G, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     is the improovement of the present moment which
                                    is incumbent on us & which really makes us better & happier.
                                    "Now" is the word big with our character & our faith.
                        Feb. 25th. Wrote to Menchaca the Alcalde for Col. Drake. Menchaca is a man of very
                                    respectable abilities but I would not trust him. Slight head-ache. The usual routine
                                    of duties. This day as past ones the same round of [drudge?] & dulness
                                    & drill.
                        Feb. 26th, 27th, & 28th, 1847. Continual alarms at Matamoros, but no news as
                                    yet from Genl. Taylor & no Mexicans have come to attack us. The
                                    Administration in their effort to ruin the reputation of Genl. Taylor have
                                    endangered this whole line of communication & probably distroyed Genl.
                                    Taylor's whole army, & in this unholy warfare upon Taylor I very
                                    much fear that Genl. Scott has lent himself the willing instrument. Received a
                                    letter from
                        March 1st, 1847. Every Mexican has a report of the battle between Taylor &
                                    Santa Anna. Nothing reliable. We can't get a word from the army &
                                    our condition is most painful, but we all believe that old Zack has done it up brown
                                    if he has retired, as I hear he has, before superior numbers. He has been like a
                                    lion mangling in his lair and leaveing a track of blood to mark his pathway.
                        March the 2, 3, 4th, 1847. We [are] all still apprehensive of an attack on this place
                                    & Brazos St. Iago. When it will come no one can tell. I think we are ready.
                        March the 5th, 1847. The 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Regiment arrived at Matamoros under the command of Col. Davis.63 The men are fine looking & in a bowie knife fight
                                    they would be some[thing?] but they are not drilled or disciplined for service.
                        March 6th, 1847. Capt. Ogden sent a letter from the mouth of the river to Matamoros
                                    that the Mexicans in great force were crossing the Rio Grande to attack that place.
                                    Eight companies were ordered on steam boats immediately to that place, & I
                                    was by the order of Col. Drake placed in command. We ran all night & very
                                    early in the morning arrived there. It turned out all smoke. They were more scared
                                    than hurt.
                        On the 7th of March we returned again to Matamoros. Found all quiet.
                        
                           
                              63 The First 
                                            Mississippi
                                         Regiment, called the "
                                            Mississippi
                                         Rifles," commanded by Colonel Jefferson Davis, later of
                                        the Confederacy.
                        
                        
                        March 8th, 1847. I embarked on the boat "J. E. Roberts" with five
                                    companies, Wilson's, May's, Lascelle's, Lewis',
                                    & Milroy's,64 for Camargo & thence to
                                    Monterey. We all anticipated a fight between Camargo & Monterey as we shall
                                    have to open communications for Genl. Taylor. It is a dangerous & glorious
                                    service & we are the boys who can do it.
                        March 11th, 1847. Reached Camargo after a long & tedious passage up the
                                    river, the boat often grounding.
                        March 12, 13, & 14th. Remained at Camargo.
                        March 15th. Left Camargo for Monterey & marched to the nine mile ranche
                                    & remained there one day.
                        March the 17th. Reached Mier after a very fatigueing march. Saw about thirty lancers
                                    at Mier and considerable apprehension of an attack, but all safe during the night.
                        March 18th. Left Mier & marched to the creek 15 miles where we met Col. H.
                                    Marshall's 
                                        Kentucky
                                     Cavalry65 & encamped together for the
                                    night.
                        March 19th, 1847. Came from last camp to Pont Aqueda & on this day's
                                    march a large number of lancers were seen & all supposed we were to be
                                    attacked. The boys were all panting for the fray & would have disposed of
                                    two thousand lancers without any trouble.
                        March 20th. Reached Seralvo66 where we were most kindly treated
                                    & hospitably entertained. The ladies in the morning came out to see us start
                                    & expressed the liveliest gratitude for the kind & respectful
                                    treatment of our troops. The[y] were apprehensive when we reached there that the
                                    town was to be burned & all manner of excesses committed, but to the great
                                    credit of our regiment nothing of the kind was done or thought of.
                        March 21st. Sunday. Travelled nine miles to the burnt ranche which presented a most
                                    gloomy spectacle. Every house was roofless & no human being in sight, where
                                    two months before all was life & activity &
                                    cheerfulness—such is war, in part, & not the worst part either.
                        March 22d, 1847. March [to] the deserted ranche where we met a portion of the 
                                        Virginia
                                     Regiment under Col. 
                              
                                 64 Captain John M. Wilson's Company B,
                                            Captain Allen May's Company K, Captain Stanislaus
                                            Lasselle's Company G, Captain D. W. Lewis' Company F, and
                                            Captain R. H. Milroy's Company C.
                              
                                 65 Colonel Humphrey Marshall, First 
                                                Kentucky
                                             Cavalry.
                              
                                 66 Cerralvo.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        Randolph
                                    
                           67 & encamped with them. Saw Thos. F.
                                        Marshall.68 He was as drunk & also as brilliant as
                                    usual. Col. L. P. Cook, my cousin, was there. He was very glad to see me & I
                                    to see him. We have the same blood & were raised together & now
                                    after being separated for 15 years we met three thousand miles from home in the
                                    wilds of Mexico in quest of a common object. Fame, fleeting fame, "which is
                                    a life in others' breath." Oh the folly & madness of man,
                                    rational man.
                        March 23d, 1847. This day passed over the ground. Capt. Smith's train was
                                    captured by Genl. Urea.69 Saw the whitening bones of our
                                    waggoners who were murdered in cold blood & unarmed by the savage,
                                    treacherous, & ignorant Mexicans. Most fearfully has this massacre been
                                    repaid by our troops. We passed Ramus & Marinn70 today,
                                    fine flourishing towns which have been burned & not an inhabitant remains in
                                    either. They look as if they had been visited by the angel of desolation. My
                                    feelings in passing them was gloomy beyond discription. This day encamped at Agua
                                    Fria.
                        March the 24th. Left our last encamped & marched on for seve[r]al hours when
                                    about 11 o'clock our troops saw about one hundred lancers & we all
                                    again prepared for an immediate attack in high glee at the prospect of a fight. But
                                    again we were doomed to be disappointed, for the lancers retired & we
                                    pursued our journey quietly to Genl. Taylor's camp [at] the Walnut Springs
                                    where we arrived about an hour by sun & pitched our tents in a most
                                    beautiful grove abounding in fine springs of fresh water. This camp is six miles
                                    from Monterey & is altogether the most pleasant encampment we have yet had
                                    in Mexico.
                        March 25th. Visited Genl. Taylor. He received me very kindly & promised that
                                    if there was another fight during our term of service our regiment should bear a
                                    part in it, when I saw before me a plain farmer-like looking old man with nothing
                                    like military dress on, in a coarse check shirt, grey pants, & slouched hat.
                                    I could hardly realize that he was the hero of a nation & age & that
                                    I then saw a future President 
                              
                                 67 Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Beverly 
                                                Randolph
                                             of the First 
                                                Virginia
                                             Volunteers.
                              
                                 68 This may be a reference to Captain Thomas F.
                                            Marshall of the 
                                                Kentucky
                                             Cavalry.
                              
                                 69 General José Urrea of the Mexican army.
                              
                                 70 Perhaps Los Ramones and Marin.
                           
                                     of the proudest nation & mightiest
                                    republic upon earth before me. Yet such he is & is to be.
                        March 26th, 1847. Revisited the hot sulphur springs & bathed in them. The
                                    spring is nearly boiling hot & if we are to believe the Mexican reports has
                                    performed some cures almost miraculous. They would be beneficial in chronic
                                    rheumatism & some such deseases, I have no doubt.
                        March 27th, 1847. Wrote to day to my dear Joan, looked at her portrait, read her
                                    letters, & thought of home, built castles in the air, lived over again the
                                    happy hours we have spent together, resolved & reresolved that if we are
                                    again united nothing shall part [us], never, no never. We are one & one home
                                    should & shall hold us. Oh the happiness I have thrown away in pursuit of a
                                    shadow!
                        March the 28th. Visited Monterey & took dinner. Got tired & returned
                                    to camp.
                        March the 29th. Remain[ed] in camp & drilled the regiment.
                        March the 30th. Drilled the regiment & lounged about camp.
                        March the 31st. Rode out in the morning with James Wilson71 on
                                    our Mexican poneys. This day the regiment was paid off & all kept sober with
                                    perhaps a few exceptions.
                        April 1st, 1847. A fine spring morning. Again rode out with James for five miles
                                    towards the mountains. Enjoyed the fine air & fine mountain prospects which
                                    opened upon us.
                        April 2d, 3d. Nothing worthy [of] note. Rode out morning & evening. As usual
                                    in the evening Col. Drake received an order from Genl. Taylor to march the regiment
                                    to Caderita72 to defend a train which he had heard was to be
                                    attacked.
                        April 4th. The regiment took up the line of march & travelled 20 miles. Saw
                                    no hostile Mexicans. Had a stampede at night. Slept on the ground in the open air.
                                    Got up at 3 o'clock in the morning & bathed in the San Juan River
                                    with Col. Drake.
                        April 5th, 1847. Learned that there was no danger of the train's being
                                    attacked. Turned back and the regiment 
                              
                                 71 Assistant Quartermaster James Wilson of the First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 72 Cadereyta.
                           
                                     encamped at a small village called
                                        Wardeloupe.73 I came on to camp being uneasy about Capt. May
                                    whom we had left sick. To day received a letter from my dear dear
                                    Joan. I can see in every letter a great improovement in her style of composition, an
                                    increased vigor of thought, and enlarged views of things, but in all that relates to
                                    the heart she is, thank God, the same. All love & trust, truth &
                                    tenderness. Received also today her presents, those dear testimonials of love
                                    & regard which to me have a value beyond all the world's wealth.
                                    Received presents also from the family & protestations of friendship which I
                                    most fully reciprocate & highly prize. A letter also from Sylvia &
                                    the buttons, [from] Grandma & the darning kneedles & yarn, some
                                    smart sayings from Mary & [Lou ?]. Joan wrote to me that Ma was going to 
                                        New York
                                     to take Lou & the two youngest children. I regret this as it
                                    will prolong the time of my seeking them several weeks or perhaps months. Thought of
                                    home until I am decidedly home sick & what is still worse I have my fears as
                                    to whether I shall get any better until I try the effect of a northern climate.
                                    Capt. Evans lost the pamphlets my Joan sent me to read, which is quite a loss here.
                        April 6th, 1847. Spent to day in reading "The Poets & Poetry of
                                    America." A great treat here, but at home no great shakes of a book after
                                    all. The weather warmer here today than in Indiana in August.
                        April 7th. Went [to] San Nicholas,74 a fine pleasant village five
                                    miles from the camp, in company with Col. Drake & Lt. Wallace. The houses
                                    & gardens here neat & tasteful, the women handsomer than Mexican
                                    ladies generally are, but oh that word "but," there is always some
                                    but. But I had almost forgot to tell what the present war is. Well, the
                                    women— candor compels me to say that much for them— but I must
                                    tell they all wear their petticoat so as to show their breasts to the lewd or
                                    conniveing gaze of all beholders, but it is only a way they have & I fear
                                    they have some other ways which would be rather disreputable in the states.
                        April 8. Took a ride with Capt. May. A thunder shower in the evening— the
                                    first rain we had seen for 8 months & the first thunder we had heard in the
                                    country. Our boys 
                              
                                 73 Guadalupe.
                              
                                 74 San Nicolas Garzas.
                           
                                     cheered the thunder most vociferously &
                                    were answered by the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     troops.
                        April 9th. Went to Monterey with Col. Drake & also to see Genl. Taylor to get
                                    him to furlough some of our officers for the purpose of going thru 
                                        Texas
                                     to take home the remains of Genl. T. A. Howard.75
                                    The Genl. agreed to furlough four officers for that purpose to be designated by Col.
                                    Drake. Got wet comeing back from town.
                        April 10th, 1847. Went hunting in the morning. Killed nothing. Returned &
                                    wrote to Joan, then went with Col. Drake to Warloupe to see a fine horse. Dull
                                    cloudy day threatening rain. All the talk in camp is of being discharged &
                                    going home. Oh the thought of going home, how it does gladden & warm
                                    one's heart!
                        April 11th. Rode out to see Col. of the 2d 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Regiment.76 That regiment has to day eighty men on
                                    the sick list. We have twenty. They spree more than we do, that accounts for the
                                    difference in the health of the two regiments. Capt. Evans' company started
                                    to Saltillo to escort a train.
                        April 12th, 1847. Have a bad cold & sick headache. Am homesick, heartsick,
                                    & sick generally. Oh the beauties & comforts of Campaign in Mexico!
                                    When will this war so fraught with misery to two nations have an end? If the defeat
                                    of Santa Anna at Bonavista & the takeing of 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                     by Scott77 do not incline the Government towards a
                                    peace I can see no prospect for it for years, & oh the untold miseries of a
                                    protracted war, such a war as we must have erelong with Mexico. We began to fight
                                    about questions of abstract right, but mutual wrongs & aggressions have
                                    changed the character of the war & individual animosities &
                                    vengeance has largely mingled in the contest. Things are now done by each army that
                                    one year ago were not dreamed 
                              
                                 75 Tilghman A. Howard of 
                                                Rockville
                                             had been a member of Congress (1837-1840) and a Democratic
                                            candidate for governor in 1840. He was sent to 
                                                Texas
                                             in 1844 as charge d'affairs and died there. A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men in the
                                                State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                    Cincinnati, Ohio
                                 , 1880), I, district 8, p. 30.
                              
                                 76 Colonel Charles Clark.
                              
                                 77 On February 23, 1847, Taylor's troops
                                            defeated Santa Anna at Buena Vista. Smith, The War with
                                            Mexico, I, chap. XX. Vera Cruz was captured by General Scott's
                                            forces on March 27, 1847. Ibid., II, chap. XXII.
                           
                                     of & the bare mention of which would
                                    have sent the warm blood freezing & curdling upon the heart.
                        April 13th, 1847. The same as yesterday only more anxious if possible to return home
                                        to my sweet home & the dear little wife. I think of
                                    her until my weak & tired brain reels with the consciousness of the time
                                    & space which separates us. Absence is now no longer a mere uneasiness or
                                    disquietude but is a sense of postive pain & conscious & liveing
                                    agony. But I deserve it for seeking abroad that which can only be found at home.
                        April 14th, 1847. My usual rides & drills. Time begins to hang heavy. Think
                                    nothing else but going home.
                        April 15th, 1847. Remained in camp today & read Shell[e]y. To metaphysical
                                    for me & too dark too. There is in his works a vein of infidelity more dark
                                    & more dangerous than I had ever discovered before. I was not in the proper
                                    frame of mind to read this book & never was so little pleased with it
                                    before. In genius he is an angel but an angel fallen. His only object seems to be to
                                    shut out the light of God's revelation & leave mankind to grope
                                    their way thro this vale of tears in night & in darkness. There is a
                                    brilliancy about his imagination but it is a brilliancy caught from the false light
                                    of French phylosophy & haveing no kindred with the true light which is from
                                    Heaven, the sun of righteousness which alone can pierce the deep gloom which
                                    overhangs sin-bruised mortality.
                        April 16th, 1847. Dined by special invitation with Genl. Taylor. Was much pleased at
                                    my reception. He is a plain man in his manners & has the rare faculty of
                                    making everyone, however humble, at ease in his presence. He does not fence himself
                                    in by any false dignity. He talks rather clumsily but his excellence is that he can
                                    do. He spoke freely of the Administration, of of Genl. Scott, & their
                                    conduct towards him in the conduct of the war. He is no politician in any party
                                    sense of that word but he is what is far better—an American. He loves his
                                    whole country too well to give himself to any portion of it. His predilections are
                                    for the Whig policy & his associations are with the Whig party. He is Whig
                                    enough for me & patriot enough for any & every American. If he lives
                                    he will be our next President & woe, woe to the mere politician who attempts
                                    to stand between the people & the man on whom those choose to bestow their
                                    gratitude  for signal military services. The
                                    people will after all have a hand in the makeing of their own great men &
                                    when they make no clique can unmake.
                        April 17th, 1847. Tired waiting for a mail from home. It has been more than two
                                    months since the date of my last letter from the one loved one. Wrote to my wife
                                    today. Just recovering from a severe spell of sick head ache. I love my wife at all
                                    times but oh I do feel the want of her presence when I am sick. My messmates May
                                    & Hanks & Owens78 are as kind as men can be, but
                                    what is that to woman's kindness? Nothing less than nothing.
                        April 18th, 1847. Sunday. Read 6 chapters of the Book Ezekiel. Could make nothing of
                                    [it] except a vague shadowing of the fall of Jerusalem. The heart described is past
                                    finding out. Rode to Monterey in the evening. Disappointed in the arrival of the
                                    mail. Mailed a letter to Joan.
                        April 19th, 1847. Ten months since we were mustered into service. Hope to [be] at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     in two months more. In doubt as to the propriety of writing to Joan to
                                    meet me at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     the 20th of June. Have abandoned the idea of going thru 
                                        Texas
                                     for Genl. Howard's remains. If I can manage so as to get an
                                    intimation from Genl. Taylor as to when we shall start for home, I will write to
                                    Joan to come south to meet me. A slight touch of rheumatism in the right shoulder.
                                    Getting up a trip in company with Col. Drake to see the battlefield at Bona Vista.
                                    Getting homesick & that right smartly too. Still, if I get home in my
                                    present state of health I shall not regret the campaign altho I shall not make it
                                    when I expected or intended. Rode out. There is one thing which must strike the most
                                    casual observer here, & that is the air of decay which seems to pervade
                                    everything here. The town seem to be out of order & prematurely old. Their
                                    are no new houses or improovements of any kind. Their farms & ranches seem
                                    to be going fast to ruin; no young orchards or fruit trees; gardens neglected; their
                                    implements of agriculture are all of primitive patterns, rude, awkward, &
                                    unserviceable; their domestic animals for want of attention are of poor breeds
                                    & almost worthless. There is a word nothing like improovement, or progress
                                    in the arts [of] agriculture [or] of manufactures. All seem at a dead standstill or
                                    rather 
                              
                                 78 First Lieutenant James Owen, Company K, First
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                                     everything seems going back. This melancholly
                                    state of things is superinduced or brought about by the unstable & violent
                                    character of the government, its frequent revolutions & revulsions. There is
                                    here no security for personal property or personal rights. The people only feel the
                                    hand of the government in its confiscations & oppressions. The Army declares
                                    in favor of some leader who promises that if successful he will pay up all their
                                    arrearages. He then commences a revolution & all who refuse to join are in
                                    the end forced to pay the soldiers their property confiscated, & [are] often
                                    imprisoned themselves. Opposition to violent rule of these temporary despots is
                                    construed into opposition to the Republic & made treason. A government thus
                                    forced the joint result of fraud & force cannot be permanent. Another
                                    revolution soon succeeds, of the same character. The people have nothing like a
                                    permanent government. They have no security that their industry or enterprize will
                                    enure to their own benefit. They [have] no inducement to labour for the purpose of
                                    acquireing any property more than a bare subsistence. Those who sow in peace have no
                                    security that they will be permitted to reap in peace. Hence, a kind of national
                                    indolence pervades the whole people. Another reason for the depressed state of
                                    agriculture is that those who till the soil do not own it; it is cultivated by peons
                                    who are enslaved for debt, a slavery worse by far than the slavery of the African
                                    race in the 
                                        United States
                                    . Unless men are interested in the result of their labours they do but
                                    little, nor do that little well. The frequent revolutions which distract &
                                    desolate this unhappy country seem peculiar to those provinces which were originally
                                    settled by the Spaniards & when that social, political, religious, &
                                    moral incubus (Catholicism) prevails no people can ever be free with a religion
                                    established by law. If men are taught from their infancy to believe that they have
                                    spiritual superiors, that the priest stands between them & their God, they
                                    will be easily persuaded to recognize temporal superiors. This seems to follow as a
                                    natural if not an inevitable consequence. If you would fit men for self government
                                    make them free, body & soul, at the same time that you give them freedom in
                                    temporal affairs. Break every chain which fetters the soul. If there is any cure for
                                    the manifold evils which curse this illfated country, it will be found in the
                                    principle of universal toleration. Religion thus free, unfettered, &
                                    unconnected  with the State is the harbinger of
                                    free government & free institutions, but that monster which is miscalled
                                    religion, which connects itself with temporal power, userps high places, &
                                    whose sceptre is the blood-stained sword, is the most stupendous & monstrous
                                    evil which has ever blighted & blasted the fair face of human society. If
                                    the time shall ever come when all the various sects of Christianity shall be
                                    tolerated here, then & not till then may we hope for the establishment of a
                                    permanently free government in Mexico. But judgeing from present appearances that
                                    happy event is yet afar off.
                        April 20th, 1847. A heavy rain. The rainy season is upon us. Rumors of another fight
                                    at Saltillo which I do not believe, but if there is to be another fight, God grant
                                    that the 1st. Indiana Regiment may be in it. I am threatened with a return of
                                    dyspepsia. It cannot be the result of high living, for the camp fare does not afford
                                    much to tempt the appetite. But my theory is that too much food of any kind will
                                    cause dyspepsia, especially if no exercise is taken. Preparing to leave for Saltillo
                                    to see the Bona Vista battlefield, that of Taylor's glory &
                                    volunteer chilvalry. It is hard to be permitted to see great battlefields only after
                                    the battles have been fought which have made them memorable. Much has been said
                                    about the conduct of the Second Indiana Regiment in the Battle of Bona Vista. I have
                                    listened to all that has been said, I think as impartially as any Indianian could,
                                    & have come to this conclusion: that the regiment fought as well as any
                                    regiment in the field & that if Col. Bowles79 had not
                                    given that ill advised & unfortunate order to retreat, no possible reproach
                                    could have attached to the regiment. The court of enquiry has set all to rights. The
                                    honor of the regiment & state is safe & Col. Bowles is ruined.
                        April 21st, 1847. Went to Monterey on my way to Saltillo. Abandoned the trip. Waited
                                    for letters. Got none. Become acquainted with Col. Hamtramck.80
                                    Much pleased with him. He seems to be an excellent gentleman & is said to be
                                    a fine officer. Last night wrote to my dear Joan to meet me at 
                              
                                 79 Colonel William A. Bowles, Second Regiment Indiana
                                            Volunteers. For an explanation of the Buena Vista controversy and Colonel
                                            Bowles' part in it, see Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican
                                            War," 46-68.
                              
                                 80 Colonel John Francis Hamtramck of the First
                                            Regiment 
                                                Virginia
                                             Volunteers.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        New Orleans
                                     on the 20th of June. I am most anxious to see her, & I desire
                                    that she shall visit 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . Mrs. Col. Drake is also comeing. We shall, I hope, have a pleasant
                                    time of it. I know I shall if Joan comes, for if she is present I am content, come
                                    what may. She is my whole world. I have no thought but of her, no heart but for her,
                                    no wish of which she is not the object. If the eye of a stranger should chance to
                                    light on this page, if I he is a husband he will understand it & forgive me;
                                    if he is not a husband I do not regard his criticism a feather. At all events, I
                                    have a right [to] open my heart to myself & to my wife. My other self no one
                                    else will perhaps ever see it, & if they do I don't care.
                        April 22. Went to Monterey with Wilson. Dress parade.
                        April 23d, 1847. Wrote to Joan again by James Willson. Received a letter from her, a
                                    good sweet letter just like her. The man who has a good wife needs nothing else to
                                    make him happy, nay blessed.
                        April 24th, 1847. Quite sick of billious cholic. Took opium in large quantities. The
                                    cholic succeeded by bowel complaint, very bad. This country is filled litterally
                                    with murder & battle & sudden death.
                        April 25th. Sunday. Yet sick. Stayed in my tent all day. Better towards evening. Lost
                                    my Mexican poney. Bad luck in horses. Col. Nave81 first cheated
                                    me out of $50 & then I purchased a poney for $25
                                    & now he has run off. I have, however, good luck about everything else
                                    & I can afford to be unlucky in horses.
                        April 26th, 1847. A dark dull rainey day. Eckels & Wilson & Maddox82 & McManaway83 & Col.
                                    Drake are all absent & I am lonesome, or if the truth must be told I am, I
                                    suspect, homesick. I do want to see Joan & I don't care who knows
                                    it. The 1st 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Regiment leaves today for Camargo. I suppose it will not return but
                                    will go home to be discharged. They were mustered into service only ten days before
                                    us. Our time will come after a whole poco tempo. Oh that will be a joyful time when
                                    we shall leave the stranger's land for our sweet home!
                        
                           
                              81 Lieutenant Colonel C. C. Nave of the First Regiment
                                        Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                              82 First Lieutenant Finley L. Maddox, Company D, First
                                        Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                           
                              83 Probably Second Lieutenant James McManomy, Company D,
                                        First Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                        
                        
                        April 27th, 1847. An attack of ague & fever, quite severe. Broke it up with
                                    quinine. Took calomol in small quantities to excite the liver to a healthy action.
                                    Not much effect on the liver but the effect very visible upon my gums—
                                    badly salivated.
                        April 28th. No appetite, getting weaker, tendency to fever, very sore mouth,
                                    & weather intolerably hot. Every thing about the [camp] anything but
                                    comfortable for a sick man, but to go to Monterey [would be] still worse.
                        April 29th. Found my horse. Wrote a letter to Joan. Rather better, but the heat most
                                    oppressive & the fleas worse than any person unacquainted with this wretched
                                    country can possibly imagine. Before going to bed we caught over fifty which did
                                    seem to lessen the number only to exasperate the survivors, for this night it seemed
                                    as tho we were to be taken "bodeaciously," if I may use a
                                    Kentuckism.
                        April 30th. Mustered in for pay. The health of our troops good. My own health
                                    improveing. The 2d 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Regiment, however, are dredfully scourged by sickness, having 11
                                    persons in forty eight hours last past. Oh the glories of the war! Poetry, painting,
                                    & eloquence will be involved to teach a gapeing world the splendid
                                    achievements & brilliant results of our victories, but who shall sing the
                                    horrors of this campaign? Who will enter the small, heated, & crowded tent
                                    of the poor soldier & say how he died; wipe the death damps from his cold
                                    brow; catch the last glance of his dimned eye, that fearful glance where struggles
                                    hope, difiance, & mortal agony; hear the last half-breathed wish to be
                                    kindly remembered by those dear & loved ones afar off whom he shall never
                                    see? This picture is always overlooked in our account of war, but if it could be
                                    seen & felt it would melt the icy & stoney heart of even political
                                    intreague itself. Creatures who for selfish ends embroil great nations in needless
                                    war should have the indignant thunders of outraged humanity sounding in their ear
                                    during this life, & during the life to come they should have the unending
                                    Hell of bitter remorse & deep dispair.
                        May the 1st, 1847. May day. Oh what a happy day is this in my own loved village. I
                                    can almost hear the sweet chime of the bells & the sweeter voice of
                                    innocence & childhood, & I can almost see the smiling faces of the
                                    happy groups as the[y] are assembling under the old forrest trees, & I  seem to breathe the odours of those flowers
                                    which kind Nature has with more than maternal kindness in my own, my native land. Oh
                                    well do I remember May day three years ago. It was then that I first found among a
                                    gay & happy throng her who has since been the flower of my existence, the
                                    adored object of my devotion. But now I am afar off where no sweet faces smile upon
                                    me, no music greets my ear, no flowers breathe for me their sweetness. Still I will
                                    live upon the memories of the past. Whatere bitide, I have been blessed. I will
                                    listen to the angel melodies of the sweet singer hope until by fancies'
                                    magic touch all those bright & winged hours are mine again.
                        May the 2d, 1847. Cool, pleasant day & my ague over. Rode into town with Col.
                                    Drake & Capt. Evans after supper. Got a cup of chocolate very far superior
                                    to any chocolate I ever before had tasted. Either the material is very superior or
                                    there is an art in the makeing which our people have not found out. Heard reports in
                                    town comeing from the Mexicans of a decissive battle having been fought between
                                    Genls. Scott & Santa Anna in which both generals were killed & in
                                    which our army was greatly worsted. Do not believe it, but if this report should
                                    turn out to be true we shall yet have plenty of hard fighting on this line as the
                                    enemy if they have checked Scott will no doubt attack our posts on the Rio Grande,
                                    & then our government may perhaps wake up to the importance of the war in
                                    which we are engaged & cease to carry it on in [the] pickeune way which they
                                    have done heretofore if they intend to invade the city of Mexico. We now have in the
                                    field at least seventy-five thousand troops. The war can never be ended as it is at
                                    present conducted unless the Mexicans choose to terminate it.
                        May the 3d, 1847. Went to town. Called to see Cols. Mitchel,84 Weller,85 &
                                    Hamtramack—all very courteous & clever. Hamtramack is the best
                                    officer, Weller a man of the most talents, & Mitchel dresses better than
                                    either of the others. Mitchel is governor of the town & he takes the office
                                    very hard, but he is young & very good looking, & a long way from
                                    home, has been in a battle, & is to be excused.
                        
                           
                              84 Colonel Alexander M. Mitchell, First Regiment 
                                            Ohio
                                         Volunteers.
                           
                              85 Lieutenant Colonel John B. Weller, First Regiment 
                                            Ohio
                                         Volunteers.
                        
                        
                        May 4th, 1847. Rumours are still afloat of the battle between Scott & Santa
                                    Anna. We are all anxiety to hear the truth. We do not credit the Mexican reports in
                                    full but still have our fears. A great battle has in all probability been fought
                                    & I fear our forces have suffered repulse; tho truth is, after occupying 
                                        Vera Cruz
                                     & Alvarado, Scott had not force enough to march upon Mexico,
                                    & if he has done so I can but dread the result. Our uninterrupted success
                                    has spoiled the Administration & spoiled our generals too. They underrate
                                    the enemy & all hands will, I fear, before long be taught a sore lesson. Why
                                    not bring an army here instead of a handful of men? Why not make a demonstration of
                                    power which will awe Mexico & show the world what Americans are? We should
                                    make this a short & glorious war for the moral effect it would have upon
                                    Europe, & we should look to that & be ready for that great conflict
                                    of opinion which will come in our day & generation.
                        May 5th. Dull day, drizzelling rain. Got two letters from Joan, the first cheerful
                                    but the last gloomy, oh how gloomy. What a sin I have committed in leaveing her the
                                    prey to such gloom & despondence & all the horrors of suspense. She
                                    imagines the worst. Oh that she could this moment know that all is well. I shall, I
                                    hope, soon be permitted to rejoin her, never more to be parted never, no never. How
                                    foolish it was in me to leave her & all the sweet endearments of home in
                                    quest of fame which ever flies when most we pursue. But enough of vain regrets. I
                                    will do so no more. I am cured of ambition & do not fear a relapse.
                        May the 6th. Pleasant mild weather. Good health &c.
                        May 7th, 1847. Went to Monterey. Rumors that Scott has defeated Santa Anna.
                        May the 8th, 1847. Called to see Genl. Taylor. The anniversary of the Battle of Palo
                                    Alto. We have been one year engaged in war, have gained seven battles, have lost
                                    many men & killed many more of the enemy, have taken more than half of their
                                    territory including a great many important towns, all of their sea ports, &
                                    still we have not conquered a peace & our government is more sick of the war
                                    & more desirous for peace than are the Mexicans. It is a war waged by us at
                                    vast expense bringing no results fruitful in what men call military distinction but
                                    in nothing else except in bearing unmixed evil.
                        
                        May 9th, 1847. Sunday. Heard from Genl. Scott's column. Our arms have again
                                        triumphed.86 The Mexicans are even worse defeated than ever,
                                    haveing lost all their arms, artillery, munitions of war, & lost besides
                                    many prisoners. This victory will place Scott on high ground as a general &
                                    it may be that it will exercise a happy influence upon our prospects of peace. From
                                    the Mexican account their army has been totally routed & is disorganized.
                                    They cannot for some time get up another force large enough to meet either Scott or
                                    Taylor, but if they choose they may make gurilla war upon us & protract this
                                    war for long years to come. Visited to day Cols. Mitchel & Weller of 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Very clever. Wrote to Major Elston.
                        May 10th, 1847. Dined by special invitation with Col. Weller, Major Boyd,87 & Dr. Chamberlain.88 All very
                                    kind & hospitable & waiting very anxiously for an order fixing the
                                    time for our leaveing for home, but as yet no order comes. We hope that we shall
                                    soon leave.
                        May the 11th. Went to Monterey with Major Morrison89 &
                                    Lt. Smith.90 Had something like sunstroke. Near fai[n]ting,
                                    become blind, succeeded by severe head ache—the effect [of] a most
                                    intensely hot sunshine. Nearer dicing perhaps than ever before. Most anxious to
                                    leave this cursed country.
                        May the 12th, 1847. Genl. Taylor today decided that our regiment should be disbanded
                                    on the Rio Grande. That will give me about a hundred more pay, but I would rather
                                    get home or to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     ten days sooner than to have a hundred dollars. I will, if I can, get a
                                    furlough ten or fifteen days before the regiment gets of[f]. I am doing no good by
                                    staying & might just as well go where I know I can at least make one true
                                    & gentle heart happy & at the same time make my own happiness
                                    complete.
                        May the 13th, 14th, 15th. Homesick, fever, & ague.
                        
                           
                              86 Doubtless a reference to the routing of the Mexicans at
                                        Cerro Gordo, April 18, 1847. Smith, The War with Mexico, II,
                                        chap. XXIII.
                           
                              87 Major Alfred Boyd of the 
                                            Kentucky
                                         Volunteers.
                           
                              88 Dr. Edmund Kirby Chamberlin, surgeon with the Volunteer
                                        Army.
                           
                              89 Perhaps Major Alexander P. Morrison of the commissary
                                        department, Volunteer Army.
                           
                              90 First Lieutenant Charles C. Smith, Company H, First
                                        Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                        
                        
                        May the 17th, 1847. Genl. Taylor gave Lt. Col. McCar-ty,91 Lt.
                                    Hanks, & myself a furlough for the ballance of our time to go to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     & await the arrival of the regiment that will leave camp at the
                                    Walnut Springs one week from today. Started for 
                                        New Orleans
                                     & came on to Ramus. Slept on the ground but still slept
                                    soundly.
                        May the 18th. Come to Seralvo very much fatigued. Remained all night at the house of
                                    a Mexican. They were very kind. Had fever. His wife made me a good cup of chockolate
                                    [and] gave me cordials, & what was still more grateful to me the whole
                                    family seemed to sympathize with me & sympathy is the best of all cordials
                                    to a sick man away from home & friends & [in] the
                                    stranger's land. Lt. Hanks was very kind to me. He is an honest, brave,
                                    clever boy.
                        May the 19th, 1847. Came to Canales's run. Found a Mexican with some fine
                                    honey which we purchased of him. Still sick & worn out with travel but the
                                    thought of going home kept me up.
                        May the 20th. Reached Mier. Bought a black shawl for the "one loved
                                    one." Had spell of sick headache.
                        May the 21st. Arrived at Camargo. Had a severe chill & high fever. Remained
                                    four hours & came on down the river to the depot 10 miles below Camargo.
                                    Stayed all night. Slept on some bags of corn in an old ware house.
                        May the 22d. Came on & stayed all night at the camp of the 1st 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Regiment.
                        May 23d, 1847. Started at 2 o'clock in the morning & travelled on to
                                    Reynosa today. Remained all night there on the bank of the river.
                        May the 24th, 1847. Embarked on the steam boat "
                                        Warren
                                    " for the mouth of the Rio Grande where we arrived on the
                                    evning of the 26th after a pleasant & for the stage of water a quick trip.
                                    No appearance of ague on the passage.
                        May the 27th, 1847. Left the mouth of the Rio Grande & proceeded to Brazos
                                    St. Iago, & late in the evening embarked on the schooner "Wm.
                                    Thompson" for 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . Had a very pleasant trip, passage of four days to the Balize.92 Came over without ever having to shift sails. Not much sea
                                    sick. Arrived at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     on the second of June. Anxious 
                              
                                 91 Lieutenant Colonel William M. McCarty of the Third
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers.
                              
                                 92
                                            
                                                Balize Battery
                                            , 
                                                Louisiana
                                            , at the mouth of the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             River.
                           
                                     to hear from Joan as to what time she would
                                    reach the city. Went the first thing to the post office. Got a letter from her
                                    written before she had received my letter of the 20th of April desireing her to meet
                                    me at 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . She informed that she was makeing arrangements to meet me in 
                                        Louisville
                                     but she will change her plans & come on to this place &
                                    I shall soon see her & again be happy, be blessed, & forget the
                                    darkness & sorrow of the past in the joy & gladness of the present.
                                    Stopped at the St. Charles Hotel.
                        June 3d, 4, & 5th. Dull times waiting for the regiment. No letter from my
                                    wife yet. Last evenening had a chill succeeded by fever. Today, the 5th, well again.
                                    Find that the 
                                        Washington
                                     Union & a great many other Democratic papers are eulogiseing my
                                    Matamoros speech. It is strange to read my praises in Democratic papers, &
                                    stranger still to see my self abused in Whig papers. I have said & done in
                                    reference to the Mexican war what I believe to be right. I have the approbation of
                                    my own conscience. I walk at peace with the man within & regard not what the
                                    world may say or think in reference to my conduct. Met last night Major Gaines of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     [and] his wife.93 He is a noble, fine gentleman
                                    & she seems to be quite as clever a fellow as he is. I find myself a little
                                    awkward & embarrassed in the company of ladies af[ter] my year's
                                    exile, but all this will soon wear off & my usual gallantry & polite
                                    bearing again [will] prevail.
                        
                           
                              93 Major John P. Gaines of the First 
                                            Kentucky
                                         Cavalry.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            The University of 
                        Chicago
                     and the University of 
                        Virginia
                     are sponsoring the publication of a new and complete edition of the papers of James
                    Madison. The editors will appreciate information about the location of letters by or to James
                    Madison or his wife, especially letters in private possession or among uncalendared manuscripts in
                    the collections of public or private institutions. Please address The Papers of James Madison, 1126
                    East 59th Street, 
                        Chicago
                     37, 
                        Illinois
                    .
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    direct to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Hiker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspendence. The Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library will do limited research on
                    Indiana families. 
                        Bundle No. 16 in File Box 7, Lawrence Co. Court House, 
                                Bedford
                            , Ind., regarding estate of John Mounce (or Mount) is misfiled or missing. Can
                            anyone help me with the contents of this file? Who were John's
                            heirs?—Miss Thelma Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                                Indianapolis
                             1, Ind.
                        John Henry Fewel m. 1827 Elisabeth Duffy; both d. late 1880, Jefferson Co., Ind. William
                            Bluford Smitha m. Elmira Robertson; both d. 1850, Jefferson Co. Want ancestry &
                            Burial places of all four. Will exchange data.—Jack H. Smitha, 5110 Park Ave., 
                                Indianapolis
                             5, Ind.
                        Want ancestors and descendants of Leroy Bradley who m. in Va., Hannah Graybill & mov.
                            to 
                                Montgomery
                             Co., Ind., ca. 1830's. Leroy d. 7–27–1881, bur.
                            Harshbarger Cem., 
                                Ladoga
                            , Ind. Chn.: MARY (oldest ch.) m.(1) Mr. Burk; m.(2) Mr. Summers; had issue by
                            both; DANIEL m. 5–19–1853, Mary Hamilton; had issue; GEORGE W., b.
                            1–4–1835, m. Eliza J.—–; had issue; DAVID
                            JOSIAH, b. 10–4–1843, m. 6–7–1864, Sarah
                            Otterman; had issue. —Betty Bradley Swoverland, R. R. 2, 
                                Ladoga
                            , Ind.
                        Want parents of Jacob Wiseman, b. ca. 1825, Mauckport, Harrison Co., Ind.; m.(1) Ellen
                            McCloud; m.(2) Mary Hardsaw; m.(3) Phebe Green. Jacob served in Civil War. —Mrs.
                            Treba Roughton, R. R. 1, Box 133, Yukon, Okla.
                        Martha ("Patsy") Russell m. 8–21–1817, Posey Co.,
                            Ind., Thomas Murphy, Jr. Want her birth & Death dates and her parents.
                            —Miss Thelma Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind.
                        Want parents (names, dates & places) and birth dates & places of John Hite
                            & wife Indiana 
                                Caldwell
                            , whose chn. were: Charles, Edwin, Fred, Lucy, William, & Dessie Hite.
                            John Hite bought farm near In-wood, Marshall Co., Ind., 1892.—Mrs. Robert W.
                            Hite, 8233 Howard Ave., Munster, Ind.
                        Who were parents of George W. Staten, b. Va. (where?), m.(2) (where?) Mary Ann Chitwood.
                            Lived in 
                                Boone
                             & 
                                Marion
                             Cos., Ind.—Mrs. Maude E. Hyatt, 655 17th St., San Bernardino, Calif.
                        Want parents (names, dates & places) and birth dates & places of Waller
                            Holston & wife Nancy Mead(e). Their chn. were: Emerson (b.
                            12–4–1852, 
                                St. Joseph
                             Co., Ind., maybe 
                                South Bend
                            ), Charles, Nettie, Eva & Rosa (twins). —Mrs. Violet Howell,
                            12924 Woodcock, Sylmar, Calif.
                        
                        Want 
                                Maryland
                             & 
                                New Jersey
                             parentage of William Evans, b. 8–30–1790, Md.; d.
                            8–23–1864, 
                                Decatur
                             Co., Ind.; m. 11–5–1812, 
                                Ohio
                             (prob. near Butler Co.) Martha Barcus, b. 9–4–1793, N.
                            J.; d. 12–23–1885, 
                                Decatur
                             Co., Ind. Is there a Revolutionary soldier in either line? — Mrs.
                            Felix M. McWhirter, 6321 N. 52nd Place, Phoenix, Ariz.
                        What was maiden name of wife of James Anderson? He was b. in Ky. before 1800 &
                            married there, probably Garrard Co. Later lived & died in Johnson Co., Ind.
                            —Mrs. A. A. Kichey, Nob Hill Pony Farm, R. R. 2, Clinton, Ill.
                        Samuel Montgomery b. ca. 1770, d. ca. 1828, and wife Hannah Copelin (variously spelled) were
                            pioneers in Gibson Co., Ind., 
                                Montgomery
                             Twp. Does anyone know where they are buried? —Miss Thelma Murphy, 44
                            S. Dearborn, 
                                Indianapolis
                             1, Ind.
                        Where & when did Mrs. Eliza Fear die? She was widow of William Fear and lived at
                            various times in Clinton, 
                                Kosciusko
                            , & Marshall Cos., Ind. She d. around 1920. —Mrs. Kenneth N.
                            Roehl, 7430 Galbraith Rd., 
                                Lexington
                            , Mich.
                        What relation was Isaac Wilson, Revolutionary soldier who died 1823, 
                                Marion
                             Co., Ind., to William Wilson, early preacher & co-founder of Cedar
                            Grove Baptist Church in 
                                Franklin
                             Co., Ind.? —Miss Thelma Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                                Indianapolis
                             1, Ind.
                        Want parentage and ancestry of children of Eleanor —– Long, born
                            between 1834 and 1844 and living in 
                                Switzerland
                             Co., Ind., 1850: Henry, Michael, Peter, Suzanne Long Moreland, Margaret Long
                            Sedam, Elizabeth Long Jones.—Mrs. Ruth Long Conway, 6631 Salt Lake Ave., Bell,
                            Calif.
                        Peter Bowman, b. 3–15–1828, s. of John, migrated to Crawford Co., 
                                Ohio
                            , and then to 
                                Steuben
                             Co., Ind., ca. 1839. Want date and place in 
                                New Jersey
                             from whence he migrated and name of mother.—Miss Hazel Kirk, P.O.
                            Box 32, 
                                Angola
                            , Ind.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               James K. Polk, Jacksonian: 1795–1843. By Charles Grier Sellers, Jr. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1957. Pp. xi, 526. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            As a youth, listless Jimmy Polk was scrawny, weak, pallid, and often in pain. In 1812, he rode
                    horseback 230 miles from 
                        Tennessee
                     up to 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               , and the plain white house of Ephraim McDowell.
                    There, without benefit of anesthesia or antisepsis, the teenager from the Duck River country
                    underwent a gallstone operation at the hands of a surgical pioneer. The stone was removed, and it is
                    conceivable that roughly one-fifth of the continental 
                        United States
                     would not be American today if the good doctor's knife had slipped or if his
                    skill had forsaken him.
            Although Polk never became robust, the operation was a pivot on which his life turned. The following
                    summer at seventeen he entered an "academy," studying with new-found energy and
                    compensating for time lost to illness. He later moved on to a better school; to the University of 
                        North Carolina
                    ; to Felix Grundy's law office in 
                        Nashville
                    , and then to politics and Congress itself. Serving fourteen years in the federal House
                    of Representatives, McDowell's erstwhile patient was Speaker for two terms and then
                    Governor of 
                        Tennessee
                    . If deficient in the personal magnetism of a Daniel Webster or a Henry Clay, Polk had
                    other qualities which commended him to voters. In 1844, as the Democratic nominee, he defeated the
                    redoubtable "Harry of the West" for the Presidency of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               James K. Polk, Jacksonian ends in the autumn of 1843, shortly after his second
                    defeat for re-election as 
                        Tennessee
                    's governor. On the surface, it might seem that setbacks in his own bailiwick
                    would have made Polk unavailable for the presidential palm. But so deftly has Professor Sellers
                    recreated the political scene that the reader is prepared for what will doubtless develop in a
                    second volume. Although the author keeps his eye on his man and never strays far from his side,
                    Martin Van Buren and John C. Calhoun enter the account much as they actually entered Folk's
                    life—proof,  indeed, of Sellers' skill.
                    Doughty "Old Hickory" Jackson, too, tubercular and toothless but forceful as ever,
                    lingers on at the Hermitage. And from all that has been revealed about Polk in this first part of
                    the story—his tenacity, self-discipline, courage, and adroitness—it will
                    scarcely be a surprise when triumph follows on the heels of failure.
            It would be a mistake, however, to exaggerate national overtones. Here the principal setting is 
                        Tennessee
                    , and in his depiction of that state's involved politics Mr. Sellers is at his
                    best. The book is based principally on primary sources, and from letters and contemporary newspapers
                    the historian has distilled freshness and truth. The Erwin-Carroll-Williams-Cannon political group
                    and the Overton-Eaton-Lewis clique are among the combinations clarified. The reader meets men he
                    expects to meet—Polk himself, Jackson, Hugh Lawson White, Colonel Davy Crockett, and
                    "Lean Jimmy" Jones. The roles and personalities of Alfred Balch, James Walker,
                    Judge John Catron, and the obscure Edmund Rucker are also presented. Though the scholar has dug
                    deeply, there is nothing obtrusive in his product. Humorous comments enliven the narrative. Early
                    American raciness returns, as when Hoosiers visit 
                        Nashville
                     in 1840 to give their southern Whig brethren an Indian canoe, a caged coon, and other
                    William Henry Harrison emblems.
            Adverse comment? None occurs to this reviewer. With diligence Mr. Sellers has traversed difficult
                    historical terrain, where many a predecessor has faltered. The result is a book fit to be ranked
                    with Bemis' work on John Quincy Adams. No biography is definitive, but, if the 
                        Princeton
                     professor maintains his standards in the sequel, he will have made a major contribution
                    in areas of discovery and interpretation.
            Holman Hamilton University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Background to Glory, The Life of George Rogers Clark. By John Bakeless. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1957. Pp. 386. Frontispiece, notes, index.
                    $6.00.)
            "It is probably true that he [George Rogers Clark] added three—perhaps
                    five—states to the Union. He is one of the few soldiers in American military
                    history—or any other history—who were never once defeated and never once
                    surprised. It is arguable that his rear-guard operations in  the
                    `back country' saved the American Revolution from collapse." These statements from
                    the preface and others in the text of this volume indicate that the author believes that Clark had
                    not yet received his proper recognition. He offers no criticism of the more moderate judgments in
                    James A. James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                        Chicago
                    , c. 1928). But he rejects the views of Randolph C. Downes, Council Fires
                        on the Upper 
                            Ohio
                        
                (
                        Pittsburgh
                    , 1940), and Samuel F. Bemis, "The Rayneval Memorandum of 1782 and Some
                    Comments on the French Historian Doniol," in American Antiquarian Society Proceedings, XLVII (1937), 15-92, when he wrote: "The British were never able to
                    resume possession [of the 
                        Illinois
                     Country and 
                        Vincennes
                    ]. Had they been able to do so, it is as nearly certain as any `if of history that the
                    American boundary would today be the 
                        Ohio
                     River. It was George Rogers Clark and the 
                        Illinois
                     Regiment who destroyed the control without which Britain could not claim the
                    country" (p. 340).
            The present volume is the result of extensive research and study, possibly wider research than the
                    author's predecessors. In places it is heavily documented. It is interesting to read as a
                    life of Clark should be. The author has been trained in history, has had experience in magazine
                    editing, in military and foreign service. He is also the author of seven previous books, a majority
                    of which were in the field of history. Two of them are concerned with the frontier.
            Unusual and inadequate documentation in places, however, characterize the volume. The fault is not
                    only the unusual form of the footnotes, but the lack of information found in them. The critical
                    reader cannot tell in many instances whether the manuscript referred to was a writing of
                    Clark's or something produced by somebody's grandmother some eighty years after
                    the fact about something told her when she was a child. At places one also finds a lack of
                    supporting references.
            The work is furthermore characterized by an emphasis on legendary information. The Teresa de Leyba
                    story of Clark's supposed love affair is not only told but brought up again and again. When
                    the British attacked 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1780, the author inserts in his narrative: "Romantic legend has grown up
                    around this swift visit [of Clark] to 
                        St. Louis
                    . It was the last time Clark would ever see Teresa de Leyba.  There is no proof that he really did see her in this crisis…
                    . But of their last meeting—which must have taken place at this time—there is
                    no record that he ever said a word" (pp. 248-249). Actually even Clark's presence
                    in 
                        St. Louis
                     is disputed, not to mention a tete-a-tete at the time of battle. Another piece of
                    legend appears on page 252: "This time, he escaped by a dazzling piece of bluff. The story
                    is familiar and well attested, but time and place are not clear. It seems to have happened at this
                    very time." How is a story well attested without time and place? The author's
                    enthusiasm for the dramatic statement also entrapped him in a contradiction. "It is of
                    record that, in all his [Clark] warring years, his reconnaissance was always perfect. No enemy ever
                    caught him unawares" (p. 70). But on page 252 he wrote: "Only twice in his life
                    did the cunning red men lure him into ambush."
            The book will make a stronger appeal for the reader interested in the story than for the critical
                    historian.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Orville H. Broivning: Lincoln's Friend and Critic. By Maurice Baxter. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. vii, 351. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $4.50.)
            Any of us who ventures upon a biography of a figure who lacked outstanding importance, or a very
                    interesting personality, or the flexibility to acknowledge the imperium of change, is confronted by
                    a far more difficult task than the biographers of strong leaders, or of warm personalities, or of
                    adaptable individuals who rode the crest of the wave on the rising tide of events. Where a figure is
                    more important for the persons with whom he associated than for himself, his biographer must squeeze
                    every possible drop of juice that he can from the fruits of greater acquaintances; and the
                    chronicle—if honest—cannot be highly flavorsome.
            Baxter's is an honest chronicle of a not-very-attractive lawyer-politician of less than
                    first rank who, probably unwittingly, greatly handicapped his biographer. This Browning in the
                    challenging year of 1861, in the prime of life at age 55, yielded to some strong compulsion and
                    "disposed of a great many of his letters and papers" (p. 333). Did his
                    supercilious exterior cloak a basic unsureness as to the validity of his own decisions?
            
            Also, toward his own Diary Browning displayed an attitude of reserve. In it he barely mentions that
                    Lincoln-Douglas debate in his home town of 
                        Quincy
                    , when they were his houseguests, but he absented himself, attending court at 
                        Carthage
                     (pp. 94, 301). Another example: he left untold how he solved his quandary of whether to
                    vote for Lincoln or McClellan in 1864 (p. 159). At least the Diary omissions unintentially provide a
                    good foundation for Baxter's conclusion that this associate who took pride in close
                    relations with prominent personages suffered jealousy toward them, especially Lincoln (pp. 99, 174).
                    The "friend and critic" here portrayed was a complicated person and data thus far
                    uncovered scarcely suffices for a full analysis of the help and hindrance Lincoln had from him.
            Like many another office-seeker politician, Browning repeatedly denied that he wanted preferment; for
                    example, he wrote Trumbull in 1856, "I always had uncontrolable [sic] repugnancies to
                    political life" (p. 88). He persuades even Baxter that after the 1862 elections ousted him
                    from his Senate seat, "on the whole, however, he was happy at the prospect of going
                    home" (p. 151); so happy that he made no farewell call on Lincoln, their relations being
                    strained by political differences.
            Manfully confronting such diverse biographical obstacles, Baxter produced a dissertation under James
                    G. Randall in 1948 and industriously combed out Browning material from the manuscripts of such
                    luminaries as Simon Cameron, James Doolittle, Thomas Ewing, Sr., Andrew Johnson, Abraham Lincoln,
                    and Lyman Trumbull, besides Gideon Welles' vinegarish Diary. Also useful, as this enlarged,
                    published version shows, were manuscripts of some fourteen lesser lights, archives of railroads,
                    court records, and pertinent secondary materials. From this data Baxter developed a fair estimate of
                    Abraham Lincoln's "friend," Andrew Johnson's Secretary of the
                    Interior and Attorney General, and the 
                        Burlington
                     Railroad's leading 
                        Illinois
                     counsel.
            The author is sympathetic but very rarely too friendly. His analysis of Browning, the unyielding
                    conservative, is often acute (for example, chapter four, "Sketch of a Gentleman,"
                    pp. 51–65, 152, 245, 273, 285). However, Browning's brand of
                    inconsistency—that universal trait—sometimes leaves the reader, and Baxter, a
                    little puzzled; puzzled, for example, about how this lifelong Whig (and Browning never ceased to  be a Whig, though he lived until 1881) balanced his positions
                    on state and federal functioning in the field of internal improvements (pp. 10–26, 57,
                    70, 77, 223).
            The biography demonstrates repeatedly the stubborn fact that intricate processes of political
                    adjustment cannot submit to full documentation. Baxter's account of 
                        Illinois
                     state politics in the 1830's and 1840's, when Browning occasionally
                    served as senator and representative, is skeletal probably because 
                        Illinois
                    , like numerous other states, is poorly documented in that period. Also the Diary, such
                    as it is, begins only in 1851, when Browning was 46, and is disappointing at critical junctures. For
                    the dramatic events around May 18, 1860, when the Republicans nominated Lincoln and Browning was
                    espousing him, although Browning's first choice was Bates, the leaf for May 18 is missing
                    from the Diary pages and the account is cursory. Also missing are the leaves for June
                    9–13, 1861, when Browning's appointment to Douglas' vacant Senate chair
                    was consummated; nor does the extant Diary mention this appointment until fifteen days after it
                    occurred. Perhaps a little-known fact, unmentioned by Baxter, accounts for some of the Diary
                    lacunae: the Diary entered the public domain under a stipulation that no criticism of Mrs. Lincoln
                    should be conveyed therefrom.
            On the whole, the greatest value of this biography derives from the fact that most of the persons
                    engaged in political maneuvering escape greatness; whenever we can learn something of one of these
                    prominent non-greats we are helped in our endeavors toward realism. It is to be hoped, however, that
                    we shall rarely be proffered a biography destitute of either any picture of the subject or of any
                    chronological summary, in index or out, of his major experiences. Lastly, may no one ever imitate a
                    note-numbering which recommences at number one numerous times within every chapter.
            Jeannette P. Nichols University of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Congressman Abraham Lincoln. By Donald W. Riddle. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1957. Pp. vii, 280. Bibliography, index. $4.50.)
            "Why did Lincoln, in his single term in Congress, come short of success? What errors of
                    judgment did he make— wrong judgments of party policy, failure to make correct  estimates of the views of his constituents, mistakes in the
                    evaluation of colleagues and of party leaders? And what elements of personal character did Lincoln
                    have to enable him to accept failure and rebuff in good humor, with no diminution in his loyal
                    support of his party and its leaders—even of those responsible for his own ill
                    treatment—without complaint and without recrimination?" These and other
                    interesting questions are answered in Professor Riddle's latest book on this almost
                    overlooked chapter of the Lincoln story.
            Briefly, answers to the questions concerning his failure to succeed and errors of judgment are these.
                    Lincoln offered his Spot Resolutions which were presented to embarrass Polk by focusing attention
                    upon what the Whigs thought was a weak point in his case for the justification of the Mexican War.
                    The response to the Resolutions in 
                        Illinois
                     was prompt and negative. The sobriquet, "Spotty," stuck to Lincoln
                    throughout his political life in 
                        Illinois
                    . In less than two weeks Lincoln voted "aye" on the Ashmun Amendment
                    which labeled the Mexican War as "unnecessarily and unconstitutionally begun by the
                    President." A short time later he made a full-length speech entitled "The War With
                    Mexico" which was severely critical of Folk's war policy, bitter in its references
                    to Polk, and negative in its attitude toward the war. Lincoln's Seventh District in 
                        Illinois
                     was justifiably baffled when they remembered that Lincoln had supported the war during
                    his congressional campaign.
            Professor Riddle correctly concludes that Lincoln's brief career in Congress forced his own
                    retirement for several years, diminished his party's strength in the state, and delivered
                    the one dependable Whig stronghold in 
                        Illinois
                     to the enemy.
            This new book, according to the author, was written to serve two purposes: to further the
                    understanding of Abraham Lincoln and to aid Lincoln's biographers. The author has served
                    these purposes well by presenting Lincoln in the full context of the historical situations which
                    occurred during his congressional career. He includes a detailed discussion of western expansion,
                    the Mexican War, the administrative policies of Polk, the changing of political party alignments,
                    and the increased tension of the slavery issue. He has also used all available sources for his
                    limited subject, and, as a result,  has made it unnecessary for
                    Lincoln's biographers to repeat the painstaking research that has gone into this study.
                    Both purposes are served by an excellent bibliography and index.
            
               Congressman Abraham Lincoln is a continuation of an earlier work, Lincoln Runs for
                    Congress, published in 1948. In the earlier work Professor Riddle presented a study of
                    Lincoln's campaign for nomination and election to Congress as a report of an episode in
                    western history, rather than as a chapter of Lincoln biography. The book tells briefly the story of
                    Lincoln's two attempts and successful third campaign, 1843-1846, to win election to the
                    House as a Whig.
            Paul E. Million, Jr. Purdue University
            
         
         
            
               Education of an Historian. By Halvdan Koht. (
                        New York
                    : Robert Speller and Sons, 1957. Pp. xv, 237. Frontispiece, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Since Halvdan Koht moved from his birthplace in Tromso to southern Norway some seventy-two years ago,
                    he has never allowed himself to be rooted in one spot or limited to the narrow confines of one field
                    of historical specialization. Although he was thoroughly trained in Norwegian and medieval history
                    in Norway and abroad by such masters as Sophus Bugge, Karl Lamprecht, and Gabriel Monod, his
                    intellectual curiosity and almost universal interests soon led him to such divers fields of
                    scholarship and practical activity as literature, mythology, politics, and linguistic controversy.
                    Accordingly, his publications treat a wide variety of subjects ranging from old Norse sagas to
                    Bismarck, from Ibsen and Wergeland to Norwegian social and economic history, and from the history of
                    the 
                        United States
                     to modern Scandinavian diplomatic history. While writing articles and books on these
                    and other topics, he was active, at various times during his life, as a journalist, editor of the
                        Dictionary of Norwegian Authors, professor of history at the University of
                    Oslo, and a prominent figure in the Norwegian Labor Party (he was Norwegian foreign minister in 1940
                    when Hitler attacked Norway).
            Two threads of thought run throughout his works: Norwegian nationalism and the role of class conflict
                    in history. From an early date in his life Koht became interested  in the landsmål movement, which aimed at replacing the artificial
                    Dano-Norwegian language spoken among educated Norwegians at the time with a more national form of
                    speech based on the language of the people. His interest in popular dialects and the life of the
                    common people turned his attention more and more to the historic struggle of the Norwegian peasant
                    for national independence from 
                        Denmark
                    . His trip to the 
                        United States
                     in 1908–1909 made him aware that the struggle of the Norwegian peasant was
                    not the only example of social conflict in history. This new awareness gradually brought him to the
                    conclusion that class struggle was one of the prime movers of history and to the conviction that the
                    socialist program of the Norwegian Labor Party was the one which most nearly corresponded to the
                    needs of Norway in the twentieth century.
            Although the American reader will not always agree with Koht on socialism and the role of class
                    conflict in history, every historian can read this work with profit. 
                        United States
                     historians will be particularly interested in Koht's often penetrating remarks
                    concerning this country in his thirty-six page chapter on the America of Eugene Debs, Samuel
                    Gompers, William Jennings Bryan, and Oliver Wendell Holmes. However, the major contribution of
                    Koht's book does not lie in the light it sheds on 
                        United States
                     history but rather in his skillful analysis of the training, forces, and life
                    experiences that made him a historian and in his subtle demonstration of a point that historians in
                    all countries can well learn: if one is to study the history of his own nation intelligently,
                    "he must have broad perspectives outward, so that he can compare and understand"
                    (p. 73).
            Edward C. Thaden 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         State University
            
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Volume XXII, The
                        Territory of 
                            Florida
                        , 1821–1824. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1956. Pp. xiv, 1129. Preface, illustrations, index.
                    $8.25.)
            This is the first volume of the Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
                to deal with the Territory of 
                        Florida
                    . Several more volumes pertaining to the same territory are to follow. Since 1931 the
                    publication of this series has continued with  what cost to the
                    American taxpayers we are not informed. This reviewer would like to oppose, as exhibits of money
                    wasted, the inclusion of numerous recommendations of little known people for appointment to
                    insignificant offices; of a number of petitions about minor matters which were never presented to
                    any legislative body or ranking executive official; and abstracts for grand and petit jurors which
                    required page after page to publish. There are other types of territorial papers included which, for
                    the information they convey or the utility they will have, might well have been deleted.
            For convenience of reading and facility of study the text is divided into four major parts. The first
                    part contains papers relating to the transition from Spanish to American rule. These papers deal
                    with such problems as defense, fortifications, runaway slaves, commerce, Indians, and territorial
                    appointments. Also included is the treaty of acquisition.
            The second section of this long volume contains papers that relate to the administration of Governor
                    Andrew Jackson. Many of these papers deal with Jackson's clash with Judge Fromentin. The
                    irate judge wrote John Q. Adams, Secretary of State, that the American flag of liberty as
                    represented by Governor Jackson was "a treacherous sign in 
                        Florida
                    " (p. 189). Jackson soon tired of his gubernatorial responsibilities, named
                    Walton and Worthington as acting governors of West and East 
                        Florida
                     respectively, resigned his office and returned to 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            The third part contains papers relating to the administration of Acting Governors Worthington and
                    Walton. Significantly, Worthington abolished imprisonment for debts in 
                        Florida
                     on July 4, 1822. During 1822 many appointments were made, numerous land claims were
                    validated or discredited, Key West was designated as a port of entry, and a collector of customs
                    appointed.
            The last section presents papers about the first administration of Governor Du Val,
                    1822–1825. Among the problems discussed are relations with the Indians, territorial
                    organization, the militia, the epidemic of malignant fever, transportation, and runaway slaves.
            Some of these papers will be read by students and used by research scholars but many of them have
                    little value.
            George C. Osborn University of 
                            Florida
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               German Culture in America, 1600–1900. By Henry A. Pochmann. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1957. Pp. xv, 865. Notes, tables, index. $7.50.)
            No better picture of how one culture interacts with another and helps to mold and give impetus to
                    movements and ideas within the receiving culture may be seen than in Henry A. Pochmann's
                        German Culture in America, 1600–1900. It may come as a surprise to
                    some that German influences were felt in America as early as the seventeenth century when the new
                    country was still struggling to its feet. But Professor Pochmann's detailed study of the
                    philosophical, educational, and literary influences of German culture in America easily proves the
                    colonists' awareness of German scholarly and religious thought. Aside from the provocative
                    and complex problem of the influence of Luther and Lutheranism, German cultural influences are more
                    readily apparent in the early libraries, those of individuals as well as that of 
                        Harvard
                    , which reflected German learning in almost all aspects. The influence of German thought
                    in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries is better known, but here also Professor Pochmann assumes
                    nothing and gives a well-authenticated account of the effect of German philosophical thought,
                    educational theories, and literary movements upon the main currents of American culture. The
                    familiar stories of the activities of early scholars like George Ticknor, Edward Everett, and George
                    Bancroft in introducing German ideas and literature; Kantianism and its relation to the development
                    and nature of American transcendentalism; Hegelianism and the 
                        St. Louis
                     Movement; the influences of German thought and writers upon Irving, Longfellow, Poe,
                    Whitman—all take on new color and significance as we read the thorough and interpretative
                    accounts of the transmission of these ideas and forms from one culture to another. Not content to
                    deal merely with the German materials and their American reception, Professor Pochmann has taken
                    great pains to trace the sometimes devious routes of some of the original ideas before they found
                    their way to America often emerging in new forms or different expressions far from the original but
                    still obviously related. A good case in point is the impact of Kant upon American thought mainly
                    through the interpretations, accurate or not, given his philosophy by Coleridge and Carlyle  in 
                        England
                    , and Madame de Stael, Cousin and Jouffroy in 
                        France
                    .
            One cannot fail to be impressed with the immense labor involved in a work of this kind, and happily
                    Professor Pochmann has chosen to go beyond the task of compiling information to interpret and
                    evaluate his material, suggest new approaches, and indicate still undeveloped areas of
                    investigation. While the study is limited to philosophical and literary influences, the portions
                    dealing with the impact of German thought upon American religion and philosophy are the most
                    extensive and interesting for the perspective in which New 
                        England
                     transcendentalism and the 
                        St. Louis
                     Hegelian school are presented. The failure of the Concord School in bringing together
                    permanently the exponents of the two movements is truly an exciting chapter in the history of
                    American philosophy. In this same area, of all the chapters, the one dealing with the development of
                    Emerson's philosophical thought is perhaps one of the most rewarding despite its
                    laboriousness. In tracing Emerson's search for "a unified philosophical religion
                    and a consistent religious philosophy" through its several and complex stages, Professor
                    Pochmann is at his best in showing the subtle and pervasive influence that the study of German
                    thought had both on an individual as well as upon a people who responded to the teachings and
                    writings of that individual.
            The scholarship and thoughtful research that have gone into this work have turned up the need for
                    investigation in numerous unexplored fields. A few examples will indicate the richness of the veins:
                    the progress of science in early New 
                        England
                    ; the extent and appraisal of the effect of 
                        Quaker
                     doctrines on colonial American thought; the influence of the theological principles of
                    Herder, Schleiermacher, De Wette, and Strauss upon American theology; a closer study of Denton
                    Snider's system of psychology and its influence.
            In sheer bulk alone this is an impressive book, and the author's handling of such a large
                    and unwieldly body of material is worth noting. The text runs to 492 pages, and the notes, in
                    smaller type, to 307. Into the notes has gone valuable material which while relevant to the content
                    would only have slowed the development of the main theme. The notes deal primarily with textual,
                    critical, and biographical matters, and the reader who ignores them misses some of the liveliest
                    material of the study.
            
            In the face of such a prodigious and important work, bringing together as it does so much material
                    from so many sources and much of it new, to criticize may seem to cavil. However, because Professor
                    Pochmann's book is such a useful reference work and will be welcomed by all students of
                    American culture who have already realized the great value of the same author's Bibliography of German Culture in America to 1940, it is unfortunate that there
                    are so many typographical errors to mar an otherwise outstanding book.
            Mary Gaither Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Works of Jonathan Edwards, under the general editorship of Perry Miller.
                    Volume I, Freedom of the Will, edited by Paul Ramsey. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1957. Pp. xii, 494. Frontispiece, index. $6.50.)
            The publication of this handsome volume, the first in an important series, should be applauded by all
                    students of American history, literature, philosophy, and theology. The editors speak of a reviving
                    interest in Edwards' work; at any rate, an objective and mature evaluation of this most
                    spectacular of American intellectuals is in order. At present, Jonathan Edwards appears as a
                    fascinating and in many ways a contradictory figure, about whom truly disinterested opinions are
                    difficult to entertain. No one can fairly deny his piety, his intellectual energy and adroitness in
                    disputation, the flowing elegance of his prose and the power of his mystical interpretations of
                    natural beauty. These qualities awaken the enthusiasm of many students, who at the same time cannot
                    but deplore his belief that Arminian doctrine is necessarily fatal to a religious life and that
                    accordingly the people of 
                        Boston
                     had during his own lifetime abandoned all genuine piety. The modern reader will be
                    pained by Edwards' inability to comprehend the motives of those who questioned his theology
                    in a spirit of moderation and humanity. Such a spirit might have withheld a more genuinely
                    philosophical theologian from the desperate outbursts by which he undertook to subdue—we
                    might almost say, to demoralize—a recalcitrant congregation. The lurid images of the
                    spiders and the vipers go a long way toward justifying Thomas Paine's sincere belief that
                    there is something profoundly corrupt about a theology that supports such utterances and that in  the name of common decency we should not expose our children to
                    such indoctrination.
            But these are now ancient quarrels, although the old scars are still visible and there are times when
                    some of us feel the twinge of old wounds. Today the scholarly critic must do his best to avoid the
                    intransigence of the older theologian. Certainly Edwards' treatise on Freedom
                        of the Will has much to offer both the student of the history of ideas and the
                    philosophical reader interested in a well-constructed and comprehensive argument. Most students of
                    American philosophy would, I think, hesitate to place Edwards as a creative and original thinker
                    along with James, Peirce, or Dewey, or, despite his learning and technical proficiency, along with
                    Channing or Theodore Parker in philosophical theology. But it remains true that Edwards'
                    anticipation of Berkeley, his reworking of Locke's psychology, and his exploitation of
                    certain Newtonian concepts constitute a distinguished performance, judged by whatever standards.
                    Edwards deserves a place in the general history of philosophy far more prominent than that which
                    most of the handbooks assign to him.
            Nonetheless, it is possible to overrate him and to misinterpret his true position in the history of
                    thought. Perry Miller has insisted in his preface that "At the outset we hope it will be
                    understood that while we approach this towering edifice with veneration, we do not expect to find
                    among all students a unanimity of interpretation, or uncritical endorsement of Edwards'
                    views. He is too majestic a figure to yield to every observer a single, simple meaning, and was too
                    rigorous a critic himself to demand servile adherence."
            But the editors are rather more uncritically enthusiastic than this statement might lead us to
                    suppose. After all, terms like "majestic," quoted above, and
                    "superdreadnaught," employed shortly thereafter, suggest a sentimental allegiance
                    that may help to explain the curiously one-sided comparison, set forth by Mr. Ramsey in his
                    introductory essay, of Edwards' determinism with twentieth century philosophical
                    literature. This interpretation seems to consider Edwards as anticipating much of twentieth century
                    thought. Mr. Ramsey mentions such writers as Bertrand Russell and C. D. Broad but he makes no
                    reference to modern champions of indeterminism such as Boutroux, Bergson, Whitehead, and more  recently, the Existentialists. When viewed in comparison with
                    the works of these writers, Edwards' theories of causation, of change and of time are
                    obviously "dated" and it becomes clear that he transcends neither the theology of
                    the Reformation nor the pre-Kantian philosophy of the eighteenth century. The efforts made by Miller
                    in his recent book on Edwards and by Ramsey in the present work to present him as philosophically in
                    advance of his period are certainly questionable. Ramsey's study of Edwards'
                    relation to Locke and his theological contemporaries is cogent and enlightening but he quite fails
                    to capture the significance of Edwards' thought for the present day.
            After all, the main thrust of Edwards' argument was theological, and his thinking was
                    overwhelmingly theocentric and reflected a theocratic orientation. Borrowing from Locke's
                    psychology of motivation, Edwards found a way of describing human freedom as consistent with the
                    absolute sovereignty of a Calvinistic deity. To be sure, man may sometimes be free to do as he wills
                    or pleases. But such freedom belongs to the human being as a whole, never to the will itself. Thus
                    there is nothing spontaneous about volition, although there may be a spontaneity of overt action. We
                    may will to act but we do not, according to Edwards, "will to will": we do not
                    initiate our own acts of volition or of decision. As opposed to this, we may argue that we do so
                    often will, or "try our best," to reach a fair or a consistent decision, i.e., we
                    may will to exist as centers of conscious and responsible agency rather than as vehicles of action,
                    wholly propelled by the pressure of such motives as fear, anger, desire, ambition, or religious
                    enthusiasm. Edwards, it seems to me, never made enough of this all-important aspect of our conscious
                    self-control. This is perhaps because he was fascinated by eighteenth century mechanism; but this by
                    itself would have led him into Deism. After all his chief concern was not scientific or
                    philosophical but first and foremost an attempt to "glorify God in man's
                    dependence." Edwards' piety would seem to have been a far stronger motive than his
                    curiosity. This fact is obscured by the rigor and closely-woven pattern of Edwards'
                    argument which has led some critics to think of him as essentially a rationalist. It is true that
                    Edwards possessed extraordinary powers of disputation, but these he subordinated to his convictions,
                    reducing philosophy once  more to the status of handmaiden. It
                    was primarily in this spirit that he plundered the writings of Newton and Locke. Once we admit this,
                    we may see in Edwards an apologist of rare ability and great eloquence. It is primarily in this
                    light that he should be considered today.
            Newton P. Stallknecht Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Errand into the Wilderness. By Perry Miller. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: The Belknap Press, 1956. Pp. x, 244. Index. $4.75.)
            "Religion like many other things is booming in America; it is a blue chip," writes
                    D. W. Brogan, English observer of the American character, in a recent (February, 1957) issue of Harper's Magazine. This may help to account for the rash of new books and
                    reprints on American Puritanism making appearance on the counters these days.
            More likely it is the realization, as the author of this collection of essays insists, that the mind
                    of man is the basic factor in human history and since the beginnings of American thought lie in the
                    seventeenth century they are, necessarily, theological.
            Together these "pieces", as Miller calls them, are broadly intended to spotlight
                    aspects of the movement of European culture into the vacant wilderness of America; narrowly, to
                    inquire further, as Miller has been doing in a brilliant series of books, into the
                    "errand" that brought the first colonists to America and the meaning of the body
                    of Protestant doctrine we call Puritanism, the first articulate body of expression from which we may
                    begin to derive an understanding of the American mind.
            The ideas of the Puritans, isolated and explained so capably by Perry Miller here and elsewhere
                    cannot, of course, be summarized in a review. The rich intellectual feast spread before us in this
                    slim volume, repetitious and intricate though it is, is added testimony that Miller is one of our
                    best analyzers of thought as it was in a thoughtful age. It must suffice to indicate something of
                    the subjects dealt with under the suggestive titles that make up this collection.
            The first pieces cling closely to problems connected with the nature of Puritanism—why the
                    Puritans went, or were sent, on their errand, and whether the lamentations of the  later 
                        Puritan
                     writers indicating the failure of their mission are not really reassuring, carrying a
                    suggestion of the expansion of the errand to include the irresistible and exciting works thrust upon
                    them by the American environment.
            In defending himself against the "curiously sullen reaction" of critics who insist
                    that 
                        Connecticut
                     under Thomas Hooker's leadership was more democratic than 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Miller shows that Congregationalism was a complex affair, and Hooker no exception to 
                        Puritan
                     orthodoxy.
            Next, in dealing with the "marrow" of 
                        Puritan
                     divinity, he seeks to explain what he has developed at greater length in his The New 
                            England
                         Mind, the precise nature of the American "idiom" of
                    Calvinism as outlined by Puritans anxious to make their faith easy to be "understood,
                    known, and committed to memory," followed by an analysis of the thorny question of 
                        Puritan
                     political doctrines.
            Another essay argues that the larger assumptions of the promoters and settlers of 
                        Virginia
                     involve religious motivation not dissimilar to that of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , a much needed antidote to the customary interpretation of 
                        Virginia
                     materialism.
            An essay devoted to "Jonathan Edwards and the Great Awakening" takes on special
                    significance, inasmuch as Edwards' works are now being published. Miller sees in the Great
                    Awakening not the old clash of social groups or an economic protest, but indication of a growing
                    awareness that the objectives of America's errand were to be "determined by the
                    wilderness." It was Jonathan Edwards, on the frontier, rather than the 
                        Boston
                     divines, who saw this challenge of the academic by the practical.
            The author goes on to discuss Edwards as a practitioner of a "Rhetoric of
                    Sensation" derived from Locke, the use of "naked" ideas, in which, among
                    the Puritans, Edwards was an innovator, and with which, as weapons, Edwards whipped up his revival.
            Admitting that in strictly historical regard there is no organic evolution of ideas from Edwards to
                    Emerson, the author, moving beyond Puritanism, suggests, nevertheless, that a tentative exploration
                    shows certain basic continuities—the persistent effort of both men to confront divinity
                    face to face in Nature, and the excitement of 
                        Puritan
                     thought which, Miller thinks, helped provoke the Emersonian rebellion against
                    "corpse-cold" Unitarianism.
            
            Less closely related to the theme of the volume, though the author takes pains to make some
                    relations, the last two "pieces" deal with the "American theme"
                    of Nature versus civilization, and the persistent American question, can an errand be run
                    indefinitely?—in other words, the problem, associated with earlier
                    civilizations' eschatology, of the "End of the World." These swirls in
                    the current of American ideas are important contributions to the present broad concern with American
                    civilization, a more general look than the earlier essays at some persistent ideas about the nature
                    of America.
            Though no book for those who are not philosophically inclined and ready to struggle rigorously with
                    the blocks of ideas Miller piles one on the other, the volume has much for the student of ideas,
                    much that is hard, but the reader is amply repaid for his effort by the matchless flashes of clarity
                    that are characteristic of the author. We need more, nevertheless, of the kind of insight that Perry
                    Miller provides if we are to achieve correct perspective on the basic elements that went into the
                    formation of the later 
                        United States
                    .
            G. M. Waller Butler University
            
         
         
            
               American Catholicism. By John Tracy Ellis. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiii, 208. Notes, index. $3.00.)
            This volume is the published form of a series of lectures delivered at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in January, 1955, on the Charles R. Walgreen Foundation for the Study of American
                    Institutions. It is the second in a projected series called "The 
                        Chicago
                     History of American Civilization" under the editorship of Daniel J. Boorstin.
                    These studies of American civilization are planned so as to make available both a
                    "chronological" and a "topical" account of American life. The
                    hope is that, in this way, the study and the writing of history may be delivered from the narrative
                    and statistical tedium too often and too long associated with history. The reader is thus to
                    discover "one of the neglected pleasures of history, both as experienced and as
                    written."
            Monsignor Ellis is professor of church history at the Catholic University of America, managing editor
                    of the Catholic Historical Review, and secretary of the American  Catholic Historical Association. His volume belongs to the
                    "topical" group projected by Professor Boorstin for the purpose of dealing with
                    "varied and important aspects of American life." Among these aspects is
                    "the place of religion" which historical scholarship here recognizes as part of
                    its responsibility and task. Father Ellis' volume is to be followed by similar treatments
                    of American Judaism and American Protestantism.
            The story of American Catholicism could scarcely be more authoritatively and winsomely told. The
                    author's authority stems from his singular competence in the discipline of historical
                    research and from the integrity of his commitment to the Church and the faith about which he writes.
                    The winsomeness of these pages stems from the author's felicity of style and from the kind
                    of mastery of the materials which make felicitous selection and authentic interpretation possible.
                    Here is, in brief compass, the story of Roman Catholicism in the 
                        United States
                     from the inside, as informed and responsible Roman Catholics see it.
            The theme of the narrative is that Americans have become accustomed to a one-sided view of their
                    origins as a people, owing to a disproportionate attention to Anglo-Saxon colonization of the
                    eastern seaboard. There is another "colonial America," residually evident in place
                    names that stretch from St. Augustine to 
                        San Francisco
                    . This other colonial America is, of course, Spanish and Catholic. And when
                    "Spanish America" is brought into relation with "French
                    America," under the aegis of historical perspective and research, the religious origins of
                    the 
                        United States
                     take on a broader and quite different aspect than they have been conventionally wont to
                    assume. Indeed, Catholics came to America from the same predominant motive as that which
                    "had prompted the Puritans to settle in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and the Quakers in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ." The motive was that they might freely worship God, out of reach of the
                    hampering restrictions of 
                        England
                    's penal laws. Some ambiguity accompanies Monsignor Ellis' narrative
                    at this point because this answer to the general question, "why did Catholics come to
                    America?," does not cover his earlier account of the Spaniards and the French who appear to
                    have been motivated more by the missionary impulse than by the desire for freedom of  worship. However this may be, Catholicism was to encounter from the
                    first an ugly and deep-seated "anti-Catholic bias" which overshadows the whole
                    Catholic story in America.
            Nevertheless, the growth of Catholicism in America has been slow but sure, from "scarcely
                    more than 25,000 Catholics" in 1785 to 33,574,017 in 1956. Plagued by the
                    "anti-Catholic" bias from the outside, this growth represents a triumph also over
                    a difficult problem from within. This was the problem of immigration which during the whole of the
                    nineteenth century, and virtually to the present day, has so absorbed the attention and energies of
                    the Church as to prevent its coming adequately abreast of the intellectual, cultural, and social
                    life of the rest of the nation. This "cultural lag" is now being happily and
                    hopefully overtaken as American Catholicism comes of age, a phenomenon recognized as early as 1908,
                    when Pope Pius X detached the Church in the 
                        United States
                     from the jurisdiction of the Congregation de Propaganda Fide and recognized its
                    equality with "such ancient churches as those of 
                  Italy, France
               , and 
                        Germany
                    ."
            However, the central paradox of the story of American Catholicism is the one which for a century now
                    has increasingly illuminated the past and troubled the present and future. The paradox is that
                    "the most disliked and suspect of all the American churches was on the way to becoming the
                    largest and strongest single denomination in the land" (p. 81).
            Monsignor Ellis says repeatedly that American Catholics find this paradox difficult to understand.
                    Apparently he finds it difficult to understand also. One can only acknowledge with respect and
                    admiration the irenic and informed sincerity with which he tries to set the record straight as the
                    basis on which the constructive aims and achievements of Catholicism in America may be recognized
                    and accepted. Monsignor Ellis rightly notes that "American Catholics are here to
                    stay" and that if Catholics and their critics would conduct their relations "with
                    more regard for the ancient patristic maxim, In necessariis, unitas; in dubiis,
                        libertas; in omnibus, caritas, it would be a gain for all concerned." It may be
                    hoped, therefore, that a reservation or two about his own attempt to adhere to this maxim, as he
                    tells the story here under review, may not be set down by him or his co-religionists as making
                    "a career out of criticism" but as an indication, in the same spirit, of what
                    makes it difficult  for some of us who are non-Catholics to be
                    sure that the olive branch is not being extended in a mailed fist.
            On balance, the story here unfolded appears to be not so much history as an apologia pro
                        vita catholica. The two are not necessarily exclusive. But the present narrative does not
                    achieve their happiest correlation. Catholicism, according to these pages, has been the real
                    protagonist of religious toleration in the 
                        United States
                    . Catholicism has made the solution of the school question possible by the proposal of a
                    constructive compromise (pp. 109f.). Catholicism, out of regard for the custom of the land, was
                    constructively abolitionist during the Civil War; whereas "Abolitionism" was more
                    often than not fractious and disruptive of social peace. Protestantism is the spearhead of
                    "nativism" which feeds upon and nourishes the anti-Catholic bias in the land. As
                    an historian, Monsignor Ellis is, of course, careful to single out some "Protestant
                    ministers"; but the innuendo involving Protestantism as a whole will not escape the careful
                    reader.
            Perhaps the principal barrier to the Catholic understanding of the anti-Catholic bias is the lack of
                    self-criticism so manifest in these pages. It is as though there were no Reformation lying behind
                    colonial America; no connection at all between Catholicism in the 
                        United States
                    , and Catholicism in 
                  Spain, Italy, France
               , not to mention Latin
                    America. Does Father Marquette's devotion to the Blessed Virgin really belong in a
                    necessarily highly selective version of the Catholic story? Is this history? Or is it part of the
                    mystique which makes it possible to tell the story of American Catholicism without any reference to
                    Catholicism as a system of power? Irenicism without self-criticism makes for propaganda, not
                    history, not even "committed history."
            Paul Lehmann 
                  
                            Harvard
                         University
            
         
         
            
               The Indiana Conference of the Methodist Church, 1832–1956. By Herbert
                    L. Heller. Published under the auspices of the Historical Society of the Indiana Conference, 1957.
                    Pp. 452. Appendix, maps, graphs, index. $3.00.)
            It is no small assignment to undertake the writing of a book about the history of a church
                    conference. This fact becomes especially apparent when one appraises the latest work of Herbert
                    Heller. The author has attempted to present  a descriptive
                    picture of the significant events that have transpired within the 124-year history of the Indiana
                    Conference of the Methodist Church. Yet he has woven into his picture the political, social, and
                    economic history of Indiana and the nation that had an influence in shaping the history of this
                    Conference. Then, too, Mr. Heller adds to our understanding of this church conference history by
                    relating significant developments and changes that were transpiring within the history of American
                    Methodism. While this book is primarily written as a history of a single conference, it can be
                    interpreted in a broad sense as being a history of Methodism in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The early history of the Conference is graphically told in the oft-quoted diaries of the circuit
                    riders. The hardships and toils of these early ministers is an impressive story, and constitutes the
                    principal content of chapter one. The numerous geographical divisions of the Conference during the
                    period 1836 to 1920, along with a chronological treatment of the significant developments within the
                    Conference, comprise chapter two. Mr. Heller's ability to portray vividly and accurately
                    these geographical changes of the Conference boundaries represents in itself a significant scholarly
                    contribution to Methodist Church history in Indiana. A detailed reporting of the Minutes of the
                    Indiana Conference, which served as a significant source of data for Mr. Heller's study,
                    would have been impossible. In many places the work of specific organizations or churches within the
                    conferences could be given only slight attention. However, in two of the chapters the author
                    attempts to separate the work of specific functions and organizations of the Conference from the
                    general chronological history of the Conference. In these chapters he gives a more detailed
                    description of their origin and development. The specific histories of the camp meetings, historical
                    societies, the Methodist women's organization, the Methodist men's organization,
                    the Methodist youth organizations, the Methodist hospitals, the Methodist children's homes,
                    the Methodist home for the aged, as well as the Goodwill Industries and Fletcher Place Community
                    Center are discussed.
            The author includes in his study a history of the Methodist educational institutions that existed
                    within the Conference boundaries. While the histories of these institutions are brief, they are
                    based on the few primary sources of data that are  known to
                    exist. Such descriptions provide an interesting picture of southern Indiana secondary and collegiate
                    educational history from the period 1850 to 1875. The schools that existed in this area were 
                        New Albany
                     Methodist Seminary, Indiana Asbury Female College, DePauw College for Young Ladies, 
                        Rockport
                     Collegiate Institute, White Water College, 
                        Brookville
                     College, Indiana Female College, New 
                        Lebanon
                     Male and Female Academy, Moores Hill College, 
                        Evansville
                     College, and DePauw University.
            In addition to providing a history of the Conference, the author has attempted to present valuable
                    information in the form of statistics and itemized listings concerning numerous topics relative to
                    the history of the Conference. There is a statistical table giving a chronological record of church
                    membership in the Conference from 1832 to 1956. There is also a record of the dates of the districts
                    and circuits of the Conference from 1800 to 1831. Another table furnishes information concerning the
                    number of churches formed in the present day districts during the past thirty-one years. There are
                    also tables listing the names of ministers who have served as members of the Conference, as
                    presiding elders and district superintendents of the Conference, as well as delegates to the General
                    Conferences of the Methodist Church.
            The history of the Indiana Conference is an impressive one. As Mr. Heller says, "The story
                    of the Indiana Conference reveals with clarity the stand of the Church in Indiana against every form
                    of evil and human weakness, from its earliest days to the present. This historical fact is the
                    greatness of the Church. In this, the Methodists have justification for great pride and
                    satisfaction."
            At times there appears an overemphasis of the political and social history of the state as well as
                    the history of American Methodism. This often results in minimizing the major purpose of the book
                    which was the Conference history.
            The book draws to an abrupt conclusion without making any attempt to tie together many of the
                    significant developments of the Conference history. Since so many tangents seemed necessary to the
                    author, it might have been desirable for him to provide a summary chapter highlighting the major
                    contributions of this Conference. But while such a chapter might have been an improvement, its
                    omission does not seriously detract from the general value.
            George P. Salen Purdue University
            
         
         
         
            
               An Educational History of the American People. By Adolphe E, Meyer. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1957. Pp. xx, 444. Illustrations, bibliographic note, index.
                    $6.00.)
            
               Colleges for Our Land and Time. By Edward Danforth Eddy, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1957. Pp. xiv, 328. Appendices, index. $4.50.)
            In his preface Professor Meyer asserts: "There was a time when educational history was a
                    highly regarded subject—when, in fact, it was almost mandatory for every student teacher
                    to study it. That heyday has long since gone by." Though this quotation suggests a very
                    desirable emphasis for teachers generally, it unfortunately indicates a Golden Age of educational
                    history which had about as much literal existence as Noah's Ark or the Garden of Eden.
            Doubtless, however, most historians will readily concur in Meyer's further observation:
                    "Open almost any teachers' college catalogue, and you will find at once lists of
                    courses in administrative supervision, in methods of teaching this or that, in guidance and
                    personnel, in the lower, secondary, and higher learning, and so on to Catering I, Church Work II,
                    and Body Building VI (with laboratory, 3 pts.). By the same token you will find educational history
                    in a state of comparative desuetude, and commonly as an elective." Professor Meyer, himself
                    a professor of Education, also criticizes "the historical brethren" as bearing
                    much responsibility for the existing low status of educational history.
            Meyer examines "the great landmarks of American educational history" (p. ix) from
                    the colonial era to the 1950's. He makes clear the European impact on, the privileged
                    nature of, and religious domination over education in colonial times. The nineteenth century
                    modified or departed from various colonial patterns and practices in education, but the
                    secularization of education for youth generally developed slowly and unevenly. Since the late
                    nineteenth century, however, the expansion and secularization of education have made substantial
                    strides. Meanwhile, in this period professional schools and graduate study, as well as extension and
                    adult education movements, have grown rapidly.
            Mr. Eddy, vice-president and provost of the University of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , the land-grant institution for that state, has produced a semi-official and
                    sympathetic centennial history  of the land-grant college
                    movement. Though seemingly not as well informed about the main threads and principal currents of
                    American history as Meyer, Eddy is keenly aware that the land-grant colleges are deeply rooted in
                    American experience. He is, however, fuzzy and inconsistent about the European impact on them.
            According to Eddy the land-grant colleges represented a revolt against the traditional liberal arts
                    colleges. In fact, they began principally as trade schools for farmers and artisans. Moreover, in
                    the early days most students gave some time to farming or a trade while in attendance at the infant
                    colleges. Federal aid, though of less relative importance in recent than in former decades, has been
                    a basic factor in the growth of these colleges, a number of which are now aggressive rivals with
                    state universities for support and leadership in higher education. The actual differences between
                    them and the state universities are less than formerly, though Eddy probably exaggerates the
                    attachment of the land-grant institutions to liberal education.
            Teaching, research, and extension have been the three arms of the educational programs of the
                    land-grant colleges. Their success in agricultural extension has been especially notable. More than
                    half of them serve as a part of state universities, but approximately twenty operate as separate
                    institutions. In addition, about seventeen states, all located in the South or on its perimeter,
                    have land-grant colleges attended exclusively or largely by Negroes. Thus several southern states
                    have a state university and two land-grant colleges. Thus, in various states, especially in the
                    South and West, separate land-grant colleges have resulted in an unwise decentralization of state
                    support of higher education.
            Although both authors err now and then regarding particular facts or conclusions, these volumes are
                    comprehensive, readable, and worthwhile accounts. They are written in a broad context for a broad
                    audience. Fortunately their authors eschew the jargon and nomenclature, so common in educational
                    circles, and both normally summarize or interpret educational theories and practices into familiar
                    ideas and concepts. Meyer and Eddy are generous concerning the scope of education, but both are
                    fearful and wary about the dangers of perverting educational programs to achieve
                    "desirable" political or social changes.
            Donald F. Carmony Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               The German-Language Press in America. By Carl Wittke. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1957. Pp. vi, 311. Index. $6.50.)
            Immigration fanned the kindled coals of freedom and aided in the establishment of American newspapers
                    in foreign languages. The immigrant could more readily become acclimated to his new and strange
                    surroundings by reading the news in his native tongue and thereby be in a better position to
                    comprehend the social, political, and economic pattern in America. Among the foreign-language
                    publications in the 
                        United States
                    , German-language newspapers were more numerous, usually better edited, and more
                    influential than those of other nationalities.
            "The present volume is not so much a complete chronicle of the German press in the 
                        United States
                    , in the sense that it tries to follow the individual fortunes of hundreds of papers,
                    but rather the story of their importance in the history of German immigration to the 
                        United States
                    ." In fourteen chapters the author relates the story of the German-language
                    press, beginning with the colonial period and ending with a brief chapter after World War I.
                    Chapters twelve and thirteen covering the period of World War I stand out as highlights.
            Although Benjamin Franklin published the first German newspaper, the Philadelphische
                        Zeitung, on May 6, 1732, the German-language press did not take root until Christopher
                    Saur, an immigrant from the Palatinate, issued his paper in 1739. As the number of immigrants
                    increased more German papers were issued, some meeting their demise within a relatively short time
                    while others were more successful. The last twenty-five years of the nineteenth century may be
                    referred to as the era of prosperity for many German-language papers. In 1885, 75 per cent of all
                    foreign language papers in the 
                        United States
                     were published by the German-language press. The zenith, however, was not reached until
                    1893–1894 when nearly eight hundred German publications were issued. In 1895 the number
                    declined to 714, in 1900 to 613, and in 1956 to about 24, only four of which were dailies—
                        Chicago
                    
                    Abendpost with a reported circulation of 13,287; the 
                        Rochester
                    
                    Abendpost, with 13,546; the New Yorker Staatszeitung und Herold,
                    with 22,014; and the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Gazette-Democrat, with 1,250.
            
            In the chapter on "Official Organs" this reviewer noted the omission of Der Friedensbote, an official organ of the Evangelical and Reformed Church, which
                    has been published continuously since its founding in January, 1850, with a circulation of over
                    3,500 in 1957.
            
               The German-Language Press in America, which contains a wealth of facts, is an
                    unusually well written study that enriches an important phase of history.
            Elfrieda Lang Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               A Crossroads of Freedom: The 1912 Campaign Speeches of Woodrow Wilson. Edited by
                    John Wells Davidson. With a preface by Charles Seymour. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1956. Pp. xviii, 570. Frontispiece, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            
               Wilson: The New Freedom. By Arthur S. Link. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. ix, 504. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            In a Presidential campaign speech delivered at 
                        Detroit
                     on September 19, 1912, Woodrow Wilson reminded himself and his audience of the
                    impossibility of escape from history: "I think of that quiet jury sitting in those rooms
                    surrounded by nothing but shelves and books and documents. I think of the anticipated verdict of
                    another generation" (p. 212). Here in these very different volumes are two of the ways in
                    which historians contribute towards that anticipated verdict. In the one, Wilson's own
                    words are the weights placed carefully onto the historian's balance; in the other it is the
                    matured judgments of a historian himself that are laid upon the scales. How far both of these
                    incline the pointer towards greatness is for posterity to decide.
            Mr. Davidson's meticulous edition of the recovered texts of Wilson's 1912 campaign
                    speeches represents the editor's craft at its best. His prefatory settings for each speech
                    are not only informative but entertaining, fitting introductions to speeches which are still
                    surprisingly alive—something that is explained not only by the breadth of
                    Wilson's mind, but also by his habit of speaking extemporaneously. In these
                    speeches—from that of August 7 accepting the nomination, to the touching impromptu by
                    torchlight delivered to the massed  Princetonians on the news of
                    victory—we have one of the most exciting accounts in print of one of America's
                    most exciting campaigns.
            Whether the picture revealed by the "lost texts" of these speeches will require
                    historians to readjust the views they now hold about the campaign—for as Charles Seymour
                    points out in his introduction to this book: "With a single exception, his speeches were
                    delivered extemporaneously, and the impression they produced is often quite different from that of
                    the advance copies given to the press, and far more compelling" (p. xii)—time
                    alone will tell. Mr. Davidson believes that at any rate these texts should correct a tendency to
                    overemphasize the economic aspects of Wilson's views at the expense of his concern for
                    social justice, as well as clarify his concept of the federal government's role, a concept
                    that laid far less stress upon the idea of laissez-faire than often is assumed.
            In any event, here, expressed in Wilson's own vigorously eloquent language, is revealed the
                    maturing of what Richard Hofstadter has called the "Conservative as Liberal."
            Mr. Link's volume is representative of an interesting characteristic of American historical
                    writing today—the large place given to substantial biographical studies. Nor do these
                    biographer-historians lack for readers. For some time now biography has outsold all other categories
                    of books save fiction. The public interest in biography does not, however, completely explain its
                    present historiographical importance. While it is true that historians, like all writers, want to be
                    read, it is also true that, like all scholars, they want to be significant. Once upon a time to be a
                    significant historian meant to produce history in the grand manner—to seek out some lofty
                    Everest from whose summit one could, like Parkman or Gibbon, gaze out over a whole world of human
                    affairs. Today, however, history-writing in the grand manner, when viewed in terms of the rigorous
                    demands of modern scholarship and the dimensions of what Allan Nevins has called the
                    "mighty torrent of evidence," presents almost insuperable difficulties. The
                    alternative—specialization, expressing itself through the monograph—has failed
                    to appeal to many historians who still yearn for the satisfactions of a subject possessing breadth
                    as well as depth. To many of these scholars the large scale biography has offered a means of
                    escaping from the confines  of the monograph while at the same
                    time avoiding the pitfalls of the grand manner.
            The writing of biography, however, poses a basic problem. Should the work be what Sir Edmund Goss
                    defined as biography—"the faithful portrait of a soul in its adventures through
                    life"—which implies a close psychological study; or should it forsake the minute
                    analysis of the subject as a personality for a broader study as a personage—which leads
                    to the "life-and-times" biography. This is a matter that can long be debated.
                    Suffice it to say that most American biographer-historians, including Mr. Link in his present study,
                    have chosen the life-and-times approach.
            Mr. Link's book is the second of a projected multi-volume biography of Wilson. The emphases
                    are upon "the major stages in Wilson's own personal and political growth and the
                    development of his most important domestic and foreign policies from November 1912 to November
                    1914" (p. vii). The book has three main parts: the first concerns itself with
                    Wilson's first months as President, and is essentially the story of the building of an
                    administration, with all the interplay of personality and politics that underlie the complicated and
                    often obscure maneuverings always associated with such a crucial undertaking; the second deals with
                    the intra- and inter-party battles fought around the great Wilson reforms—tariff,
                    monetary, business—that were the major objectives of the New Freedom; the third has to do
                    with the formulation of foreign policy, with Latin America, especially Mexico, receiving the most
                    attention. A final chapter rounds out the book, focusing on the unfortunate Jones-Warburg
                    controversy, the national impact of the ferocious 
                        Colorado
                     coal fields strike, and the unhappy results for the Democrats of the Congressional
                    elections of 1914.
            A book of this scope produces opportunity for many a scholarly debate. This reviewer is not a
                    specialist in either Wilson or his period, and hence is not equipped to enter any such debate on
                    either fact or interpretation. However, there are one or two minor points upon which questions might
                    be asked. The author, it appears to this reviewer, makes an excessively reductive statement when he
                    says that Colonel House, on the occasion of his 1914 trip to Europe, "might conceivably
                    have saved the peace of the world, to the eternal credit of New Freedom diplomacy, if it had come a
                    year before instead upon  the eve of Armageddon" (p.
                    318). There is also what seems to be a contradiction of sorts in some basic remarks regarding the
                    general nature of Wilson's Latin American policy. On page 328 the author says,
                    "The most important cause of the disparity between Wilsonian promise and practice was the
                    fact that New Freedom diplomacy was inadequate to insure the security of the 
                        United States
                     in the western hemisphere." However, on page 330 he says the security factor
                    "only partially explains the disparity … . for security considerations actually
                    played a secondary role in the Wilson administration's most ambitious projects of
                    intervention and control." Such criticism, however, by its very paucity underscores the
                    generally high standard of scholarship that characterizes the book. At this date Mr. Link's
                    volume must stand as the most solidly researched and up-to-date survey of Wilson's first
                    two years as President.
            However, to this reviewer it is somewhat less satisfactory as biography. The main setting of the book
                    is Congress and the executive departments; the chief action is the implementation of the ideals of
                    the New Freedom into public policy. To this setting, and in terms of this theme, the President
                    regularly descends to succor his hard-pressed Myrmidons at some juncture; and, the crisis past, as
                    regularly ascends to the aloofness of the White House. Actions are explained, details clearly given,
                    confusions and complexities disentangled, but somehow through it all Wilson remains rather
                    unilluminated in terms of the inner man. This is an almost unavoidable result of the life-and-times
                    approach to biography: the times tend to swallow up the man. Perhaps this is the consequence of
                    viewing the subject via a method primarily descriptive rather than analytic, that emphasizes
                    externalities rather than the inner man, that is obliged to mass the facts of public life at the
                    expense of exhaustively probing private relationships. Throughout The New Freedom
                    there are many instances of cogent considerations of character and personality; but it is
                    essentially a political history organized in terms of chapters which are primarily monographic-like
                    studies of major episodes in a Presidential administration, and only secondarily biographical
                    considerations of the places of these episodes in the life of Wilson.
            The insidious tendency of the monographic approach to insert itself in this type of biography has
                    also, at least to this  reviewer, affected the literary aspects
                    of the book. Mr. Link's narrative treatment makes for clear exposition at the expense of
                    dramatic appeal; his style, while lucid, is a plain one with little or no use of metaphor, which
                    advances in a sober, steady cadence. This kind of writing makes for easy reading and quick
                    understanding, but also, in an extended work, it can skirt dangerously close to dryness. There is
                    also present in the writing an undue dependence upon overworked expressions; fewer appearances in
                    the future volumes of falls from grace, pressing concerns, wraths that are aroused, and devotions
                    that are dog-like will make for more effective prose.
            In summary, one can say, on the basis of Mr. Link's first two volumes, that here is the
                    Wilson biography of our times. While it has its shortcomings—as what scholarly work of
                    such scope does not?—as an example of good, solid historical writing it testifies
                    impressively to the author's diligence, seriousness of purpose, and technical skill. It is
                    a good example of the learned life-and-time biography so frequently produced today by American
                    historians.
            William M. Neil Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Opponents of War, 1917–1918. By H. C. Peterson and Gilbert C. Fite. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1957. Pp. xiii, 399. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Here is a factual account of what happened to objectors to war when the 
                        United States
                     entered the first World War in 1917. The lynchings, the strong-arm police methods, the
                    hysterical trials, the grossly unfair sentencing by such judges as the late Kenesaw Mountain
                    Landis—all this is here in detail. There also is description of the less violent measures
                    taken against Americans who were lukewarm to the war effort. Individuals who did not wish to buy
                    Liberty Bonds found their doorsteps painted yellow. German-Americans and other former nationals of
                    the enemy countries in 1917–1918 sometimes had to demonstrate their loyalty to the 
                        United States
                     by publicly kissing the American flag.
            The reason why Americans during the first World War behaved so shamefully toward objectors to the war
                    was not simply wartime fears. The unconstitutional repressions of  civil rights during the war had a number of motives. Destruction of the I.W.W., for example,
                    involved a great deal of anti-labor and anti-Socialist feeling; where patriotism ended and other
                    hatreds began was difficult to say. Likewise many violations of civil liberties during the war years
                    showed racial feeling, for opponents to war often were former citizens of East European countries
                    with traditions different from those commonly denominated "American." Dislike of
                    foreign ways easily led to persecution under the excuse of patriotism. The authors of Opponents of War have moved carefully in describing the reasons for intolerance at home in
                    1917–1918. As a piece of social analysis the book is subtle and convincing.
            It is perhaps unfair therefore to criticize it for what it has not attempted to do, and yet one
                    cannot help remarking that despite its excellence the volume fails to attain any kind of broad
                    perspective. Professor Fite, who carried the work to completion after the death in 1952 of his
                    colleague Professor Peterson, has expressly disclaimed any broad approach.
                    "Generally," he writes, "the treatment has been more descriptive than
                    analytical, although a considerable amount of analysis has been included." The above
                    sentence is revealing in more ways than one, for its passive-voice verbs reflect the book's
                    colorless writing. But does not its point, that Opponents of War is descriptive
                    and not analytical, sound suspiciously like the procedure so common to doctoral dissertations, where
                    the inexperienced student refuses to generalize and takes refuge in a recital of facts?
            To ask such a question is not to belittle the research of Professors Peterson and Fite. Still,
                    printing costs being what they are today, and with the reading public usually balking at the
                    purchase of university press books, should not professorial writers attempt to get away from the
                    narrow, narrative approach, and tell their readers what their subjects mean for the broad course of
                    history? Opponents of War does make feeble efforts in that direction in the last
                    chapter. But why not write a book that constantly puts its facts into the main stream of American
                    history? Why not show that the sorry tampering with civil rights in 1917–1918 was part of
                    a long history of unconstitutional acts during wartime or supposed periods of national danger? Why
                    not, indeed, bring the sorry present into the sorry past? The book under  review does all these things inadequately, and the result is a volume
                    of only narrow excellence—a painstakingly factual, extremely well researched,
                    disappointingly myopic account of an important episode in American history.
            Robert H. Ferrell Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               British Emigration to North America: Projects and Opinions in the Early Victorian
                        Period. By Wilbur S. Shepperson. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1957. Pp. xvi, 302. Tables, appendices, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            Although the subtitle of this book would limit its scope to the middle half of the past century, the
                    author has given a rather lengthy introduction to earlier phases of British emigration, and
                    concludes with an excellent chapter in which he evaluates emigration as a practical movement and as
                    a theoretical issue. This is the best part of the book.
            The volume deals with certain phases of immigration and the settlement of Britons in the colonies and
                    the 
                        United States
                    , but it is devoted primarily to emigration and the unusual importance which it assumed
                    from the late Georgian through the early Victorian periods. During the nineteenth century almost
                    seventeen million persons emigrated from the 
                        United Kingdom
                    ; approximately 80 per cent of them went to North America. The views of the British
                    people as well as the government attitude on the controversial subject of emigration are discussed
                    at considerable length.
            According to the author, one of the objects of the work was to illustrate the place emigration
                    occupied in the minds of the people. While it is primarily a narrative of events, it is also devoted
                    to the development of ideas. Attempt is made at interpretation and explanation, but the major space
                    is given over to a recording of information.
            The first part of the book gives an account of the emigration movement as approached by farmers,
                    agricultural workers, and the landed aristocracy; labor unions, Chartists, and unorganized
                    industrial workers; philanthropic agencies, self-help societies, and religious bodies. The second
                    part deals with the reaction to the emigration movement, and depicts the views of commercial men,
                    financiers, and industrialists on the subject of the exodus of laborers and skilled workers.  Much attention is given to governmental reaction to emigration
                    as the movement impinged on domestic, colonial, and foreign issues.
            The author has collected and assimilated a tremendous amount of factual data on the subject.
                    Voluminous footnote references appear at the end of each of the seven chapters, as well as an
                    excellent summation. The bibliography of 27 pages lists the references used, mostly from the British
                    Museum, although the Public Records Office and other English libraries were used extensively.
            The frontispiece carries a painting by the pre-Raphaelite artist, Ford Madox Brown, in which he
                    portrays his impressions of a young couple seeing their homeland for the last time. It is entitled
                        The Last of 
                            England
                        .
            
            As would be expected in a work from the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, the volume is both scholarly and interesting, although it will probably appeal
                    more to the research student than to the average reader.
            I. George Blake 
                  
                            Franklin
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Henry Varnum Poor: Business Editor, Analyst, and Reformer. By Alfred D.
                    Chandler, Jr. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. 362. Frontispiece, map, appendix, notes, index.
                    $6.50.)
            This biography reviews the life of a pioneer business editor who was one of the first Americans
                    systematically to collect and publish reliable business information. Born in 1812 in a frontier
                    village in 
                        Maine
                    , Henry Varnum Poor had a long and varied career as lawyer, railroad promoter,
                    cartographer, reformer, business editor, congressional lobbyist, and finally publisher of the Manual of the Railroads of the 
                            United States
                        . But this book properly concentrates on Poor's work as editor of the
                        American Railroad Journal in the dozen years prior to the Civil War.
            In 1849 when Poor became editor of the important but not too successful Journal,
                    the nation was on the threshold of a decade of significant railroad expansion and development. What
                    had been but a scattering of short lines from 
                        Georgia
                     to 
                        Maine
                     in 1850 became by 1860 a railway network of over thirty thousand miles serving
                    adequately all the  states east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . As the only "big business" then on the American scene, the railroads
                    participated fully in the business prosperity and optimism that appeared with the discovery of gold
                    in 
                        California
                    . No other industrial institution did business on so vast a scale, financed itself from
                    such a variety of sources, or employed such numbers of men of varied skills.
            After the young lawyer had given up his modest practice in 
                        Bangor
                    , 
                        Maine
                    , and moved to 
                        New York
                     City to edit the Journal, he found a paper with a subscription list of twelve hundred
                    which had been a major spokesman for the railroad industry for seventeen years. His predecessors had
                    made the publication meet the widely felt need for technical engineering information, with articles
                    upon the building of the permanent way, rolling stock, braking, lubrication, and operating costs.
                    Henry Poor at first continued this emphasis upon the technical content, even adding a department for
                    "mining and metallurgy." But soon he began to stress the collection and analysis
                    of essential financial and operational information. As his paper became more of a financial journal
                    it prospered and by 1854 had a weekly circulation of nearly five thousand. Most of the new readers
                    were railroad managers or investors. The new prosperity permitted Poor and his family to afford a
                    substantial home, several servants, summer vacations away from 
                        New York
                    , and private schooling for the children.
            Over half the chapters of Alfred Chandler's book trace the shifting editorial policies of
                    the Journal as they reflected the needs of the railroad industry and also the
                    general business or financial climate. From the fall of 1850 until December, 1852, Poor considered
                    that the primary function of his paper was to represent the railroads on Wall Street. In his desire
                    to encourage railroad construction in the West in the early 1850's, Henry Poor found a
                    staunch ally in James F. D. Lanier, an Indiana banker who had recently founded his own banking house
                    in 
                        New York
                     City. Lanier was one of the first bankers in 
                        New York
                     with confidence in western railroads. As the rail construction boom picked up speed in
                    the early 1850's, Poor shifted his editorials to a plea for restraint. In 1853 and 1854 he
                    stressed the need for retrenchment and warned against the dangers of overconstruction.  From 1854 until the depression following the crisis of 1857 Henry Poor
                    emphasized the need for financial reform in the industry. After 1857 his editorials continued to
                    deal with the varied problems of railroad management. Long before his retirement from the editorship
                    in 1861, Henry Varnum Poor had become a major spokesman for the railroads of America.
            Two final chapters describe Poor's career after he left the Journal for a
                    variety of projects in railroad and government finance. His major undertaking began in 1867 when his
                    son William suggested that his father publish and edit a Manual of the Railroads of the 
                            United States
                        . Published annually after 1868, the Manual was an immediate success and had a
                    monopoly of the field until 1900. Much of the success was due to the willingness of the railroad
                    officials to give Poor the information he requested each spring. They trusted Poor and also were
                    aware that they could hardly afford the bad publicity of refusal. The statistics which Poor
                    collected remain the single most useful source of information available on the railroads of the 
                        United States
                     prior to the statistical studies of the Interstate Commerce Commission starting in
                    1888.
            Written by a great-grandson of Henry Poor, this study is of greatest value for its thorough and
                    painstaking survey of the growing pains and financial problems of American railroads in their decade
                    of rapid growth prior to the Civil War. Mr. Chandler describes with a sure touch several new facets
                    of the business life of the decade. Especially interesting is his description of the shifting
                    financial leadership of eastern cities in the mid-nineteenth century. A single map clearly indicates
                    the extensive rail expansion in the period 1849–1854. This volume is based largely upon
                    the several collections of Poor papers, his numerous writings, and of course appropriate volumes of
                    the American Railroad Journal. The book is fully documented, with the notes,
                    unfortunately, in the back of the volume. Mr. Chandler has given us an illuminating biography of a
                    pioneer American business editor and analyst.
            John F. Stover Purdue University
            
         
         
         
            
               Wilderness for Sale: The Story of the First Western Land Rush. By Walter
                    Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    : Hastings House, 1956. Pp. xii, 372. Illustrations, map, abridged bibliography, index.
                    $4.50.)
            The settlement of the West has been a peculiarly important factor in American history, and the
                    opening of the Old Northwest was a significant part of this movement. Professor Havighurst has
                    proposed the story of the latter as his goal for this volume in the "American
                    Procession" series. The book's subtitle refers to the "first"
                    land rush; the setting is primarily that area which is now 
                        Ohio
                    , although references are made to territories beyond.
            The general outline of the opening of the Old Northwest is faithfully reproduced in the book. Indian
                    claims were acquired and other native claimants pacified or weakened. The mechanics of federal land
                    policy were put into operation. The ever-present squatter did not wait for land legislation and such
                    legislation did not immediately meet the needs of the immigrant. Consequently the Land Act of 1800
                    was passed and settlement increased. Pioneers crossed the Alleghenies and descended the 
                        Ohio
                     River, eventually creating a new western society. 
                        Ohio
                     settlements from Gallipolis and the 
                        Connecticut
                     Reserve to North Bend are discussed; cultural aspects are sampled and evidences of
                    growth of this part of the Old Northwest are noted.
            The treatment of the material is literary and episodic rather than empirical. The book is divided
                    into five parts entitled "Twilight of the Tribes," "Tomahawk Rights and
                    Land Warrants," " `What Part of the World Do You Come From?',"
                    "Cabin in the Clearing," and "Once a Wilderness." Its content is
                    noticeably popular in style. Mr. Havighurst relies heavily on biographical sketches, some of which
                    are pertinent, some spread throughout the book (William Henry Harrison was at 
                        Fort Greene
                     Ville on page 6 and was buried on the next to last page), while others are unduly
                    emphasized. 
                        Ohio
                     figures from Platt Benedict to Zalmon Wildman are presented; yet such men as Winthrop
                    Sargent, Francis Menard, Jonathan Jennings, Jesse B. Thomas, and many others have been omitted.
                    Similarly some episodes are described in detail while others are barely mentioned or are omitted.
                    Such matters as the Gallipolis settlement, the Burr-Blennerhassett intrigue, Johnny Appleseed, and
                    "Mad Ann" Bailey are unduly  emphasized; the
                    contributions of Albert Gallatin and Jared Mansfield, the weaknesses of the credit system, and
                    midwestern states other than 
                        Ohio
                     are slighted.
            The book shows signs of acknowledging too casually the details of midwestern history. Is the author
                    aware of the colonial precedents to our federal land system? Much of his description of this phase
                    is anchored in long quotations from the works of Silas Deane and Pelatiah Webster rather than at
                    least a mention of the ideas of Amelia Ford, Clarence Alvord, and Lawrence Gipson. Sections
                    concerning the Confederation period show confusion as to whether Merrill Jensen's works
                    were accepted or rejected by Mr. Havighurst. Little effort is made to assess the role of Alexander
                    Hamilton in the formulation of the federal land program. The author is too often inaccurate in the
                    citation of specific facts. He has persisted in noting that Indiana became a state in 1817. He
                    states that Marietta was "the first town north of the 
                        Ohio
                    " (p. 58). He also adds: "Westward the government surveys proceeded
                    methodically crisscrossing 
                        Ohio
                     in the early 1800's, checked by the war of 1812, then pushing into Indiana, 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    " (p. 84).
            It is also regrettable that the volume has inadequate reference aids, while footnotes are totally
                    lacking. The abridged bibliography emphasizes mid-nineteenth century materials with notable reliance
                    on Early Western Travels. Such works as the St. Clair Papers,
                    the Harrison Papers, Carter's Territorial Papers, and
                    the American State Papers have been omitted.
            Charles J. Bayard University of 
                            Maine
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               American Indian and White Relations to 1830: Needs & Opportunities for
                    Study. By William N. Fenton. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1957. Index. $3.00.)
            About five years ago the Institute of Early American History and Culture began a series of
                    conferences in 
                        Williamsburg
                     to consider possibilities of research into relatively little explored fields and to
                    encourage investigation into areas which need a critical re-examination. This volume, the second in
                    the Institute's "Needs and Opportunities for Study" series, is a result
                    of a conference in 1953 which was devoted  to early American
                    Indian and white relations. It is composed of an essay and an extended bibliography.
            The basis of discussion for this seminar was a paper by William N. Fenton. Revised, it is now
                    presented as "Indian and White Relations in Eastern North America: A Common Ground for
                    History and Ethnology." The essay is concerned with the problem of charting the twilight
                    zone between the two disciplines by definition and suggestion. Beyond a few suggestions which he
                    labels as "an agenda for mutual assistance," 
                        Fenton
                    's appeal for an ethnohistorical approach is primarily bibliographical in
                    nature. Under the titles of "Indian ethnography for historians," "the
                    literature of the council fire," "upstreaming, the method of
                    ethnohistory," and "condolence and calumet, the drama of forest
                    diplomacy," the author weaves his ideas into a bibliographical essay or commentary which
                    serves as a helpful introduction to the formal bibliography which follows.
            More than two-thirds of this volume is the collaborative bibliography prepared by Lyman H.
                    Butterfield, Wilcomb E. Washburn, and Fenton. It is annotated and presented under the following
                    headings: reference and bibliographical aids, ethnological literature, historical literature,
                    serials, manuscript sources, documentary publications, and special topics. The last is subdivided
                    into portraiture, literature, songs, art, biography and autobiography, captivities, missions and
                    education, government policy, and the Indian in literature and thought. The most valuable
                    contribution is the thirteen-page section on manuscript sources which is broken down by geographic
                    areas. Aside from the over 1700 entry volume, An Essay Towards an Indian
                    Bibliography, by Thomas W. Field, there is nothing that approaches an adequate bibliography on
                    this general subject. The literature is vast indeed and it would require a shelf full of books like
                    Field to list it all. The purpose of the present work is to be selective and suggestive. Within
                    these defined limits, Butterfield, Washburn, and Fenton have done a commendable job of providing
                    "for the student of history … a guide to important ethnological
                    literature," and "for the student of ethnology … a guide to important
                    historical literature."
            Some important developments of a pioneering nature have occurred in the last few years that are
                    defining and publicizing ethnohistory as a field of research and study.  Among these are the Newberry Library Conference on Indian Studies and
                    the formation of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley Historic Indian Conference (now the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference)
                    and the establishment of its journal, Ethnohistory. This book is a significant
                    third step. May it inspire many more.
            Dwight L. Smith Miami University
            
         
         
            
               The Circle: "The Center of Our Universe." By Ernestine
                    Bradford Rose. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1957. Pp. 97. Frontispiece, illustrations, biblioggraphy,
                    index. $1.00.)
            The author states in the preface that her purpose is merely to trace the history of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Monument Circle by recalling some of the institutions which were located there,
                    interesting events, and outstanding personalities that have made up its past.
            Alexander Ralston, who had helped Pierre L'Enfant lay out the City of 
                        Washington
                    , designed the plat and planned the Circle which was known from the beginning as
                    Governor's Circle because the Governor's Mansion was to be erected there. A large,
                    square, two story, yellow brick building surrounded by a rail fence was the Governor's
                    Mansion, but in name only, for no governor ever lived there.
            One chapter, "Round and Round the Circle to 1870," includes a plat and descriptions
                    of many of the early buildings. Among these were residences of early citizens, five churches, three
                    schools, two newspapers, a fire station, and a livery stable. Another chapter is devoted to the
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument which was erected to honor the heroes of the Civil
                    War and which is described as the heart of the Circle as well as the trademark of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After 1870 the 
                        Columbia
                     Club, the English Hotel, English's Opera House, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Water Company were located on the Circle. The Circle, called Governor's
                    Circle, Circle Park, Monument Place, or simply The Circle, has been truly the town square of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Although the author states in the preface that this study is not exhaustive, she has made careful use
                    of the sources as shown by the lengthy bibliography at the close of the book. There are many
                    interesting photographs and drawings to illustrate  the places
                    and people referred to. The author has accomplished her purpose to bring back to many of her readers
                    a host of memories of the past and to give others stories of the unfamiliar past of the
                    "Center of Our Universe."
            Opal Humphreys Endicott 
                  
                            Granville
                         Wells High School Jamestown
            
         
         
            
               Enterprise in Oil: A History of Shell in the 
                            United States
                        . By Kendall Beaton. (
                        New York
                    : Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1957. Pp. xiii, 815. Illustrations, maps, notes, appendix,
                    index. $7.50.)
            American economic history has been greatly advanced in the last half dozen years by the willingness
                    of certain oil companies to open their records and have their histories written. Notable among these
                    are the first volume of the Standard Oil (
                        New Jersey
                    ) history by the Hidys and the more recent history of Standard Oil (Indiana) by Paul H.
                    Giddens. The volume of Kendall Beaton on the Shell Oil Company and its predecessors may not be quite
                    of the same class, but it is well written, carefully done, and full of information, although it is
                    sometimes bogged down with detail which, for the general reader, could be skipped without loss.
            The Shell operations in the 
                        United States
                     have certain elements of interest different from those of the domestic companies. Not
                    only is Shell Oil the only foreign oil company operating extensively in the 
                        United States
                    , but doubtless it is the largest foreign industrial interest in this country. By 1951
                    it was the sixth largest oil company in sales and by 1954 had assets of over a billion dollars.
                    Always dominated by an unusually able group of Dutch-British financiers and oil men who headed the
                    Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (Royal Dutch-Shell group companies), it nevertheless employed many
                    American executives in its subsidiaries here, financed these companies in part with American money,
                    and opened one-third of the stock of Shell Oil to purchase on the 
                        New York
                     stock market.
            The Royal Dutch Petroleum Company has one of the most complicated structures in business history.
                    Both it and the Shell Transport and Trading Company (British) had for years attempted to exploit oil
                    in the Far East. There the market had been dominated by Standard Oil, and to meet  this competition these two companies and the Rothschilds combined in
                    1902. Shell Transport and Trading Company began to buy American oil in 1901 and in 1912 the Royal
                    Dutch-Shell group entered 
                        California
                     as a competitor to the local companies.
            Between 1912 and 1920 Shell moved from 
                        California
                     into the Middle West and in the 1920's into the eastern seaboard. During the
                    twenties expansion was rapid and by the end of the decade it operated in every state of the union.
                    The period of the thirties was a different story; it was one of retreat, consolidation, and
                    retirement from marketing in most of the area between the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the Rockies. As a result of the war, business was good in the forties and Shell did
                    notable work in its technical and scientific research. In the fifties Shell enjoyed a new era of
                    expansion and prosperity.
            Entering a country already well supplied with numerous oil companies, always faced by bitter
                    competition, and sometimes opposition because of its foreign background, the Shell group in
                    forty-five years has risen to an important position. Mr. Beaton has told the story in great detail;
                    the text runs to almost seven hundred pages. His account is a straight and apparently accurate
                    record; it tells of failures and mistakes as well as successes, and is often enriched by the
                    reminiscences of small as well as important executives. While he covers virtually all phases of
                    Shell's history in America, the reviewer was particularly impressed by the clear and
                    detailed account of the technical and scientific contributions made by what is now called the Shell
                    Oil Company.
            Harold U. Faulkner Smith College
            
         
         
            
               NEA: The First Hundred Years. By Edgar B. Wesley. (
                        New York
                    : Harper and Brothers, 1957. Pp. x, 419. Appendices, index. $5.00.)
            This centennial volume on the National Education Association is largely a topical review of its part
                    in the educational movements of the past century. The work is a stimulating commentary not only on
                    the elevation of teaching to the status of a profession but also on the rise of the high schools;
                    the development of normal schools, teachers' colleges, and other elements of higher
                    education; successive currents of thought on the purposes and methods of education in the  lower schools; and much else, including the supply of the tools
                    of education as a business. This is a mine of information about an extremely intricate feature of
                    American life; it is also a guide through much of the confusion which conies with intricacy.
            Occasionally, however, the book fails to do full justice to the complexity of the subject at hand,
                    e.g. the work of the Committee of Ten on the high school curriculum. But the appearance of one-sided
                    judgments is less disconcerting than the author's deliberate omission of a narrative
                    account of the inward life of the NEA as distinct from its outward activity. By focusing on
                    movements in which the NEA participated, the book succeeds completely in reminding the reader that
                    educational institutions do not live in a vacuum but comes perilously close to being Hamlet without
                    the soliloquies. The NEA Proceedings were, the author remarks, his most important
                    single source: what do unpublished papers have to offer? Something is actually said about the inner
                    story of the NEA—enough to suggest that its public role cannot be understood without full
                    knowledge of its private life, enough to call simplistic judgments upon the NEA into serious
                    question, but not enough to give more than glimpses of the NEA as a product of its history as an
                    association of mortal beings. The historical study of American education can suffer as truly, if not
                    as seriously, from a violent reaction against parochialism as from that preoccupation with
                    intramural trivialities which the author obviously sought to avoid. His intention is praiseworthy,
                    the result disappointing.
            Richard J. Storr University of 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               A Dozen Captains of American Industry. By Walter Wilson Jennings. (
                        New York
                    : Vantage Press, 1955. Pp. viii, 229. Index. $2.50.)
            The material in this book and its predecessor volume, Twenty Giants of American
                    Business (Exposition Press, 1953), was developed in a course in American Business Leaders at
                    the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The men discussed are Samuel Slater, William Gregg, Elias Howe, James B. Eads, George
                    Westinghouse, Henry Clay Frick, William L. Douglas, Elbert H. Gary, Thomas Coleman DuPont, George
                    Eastman, John Dennis Ryan, and Edward L. Doheny. The 
                    author's objective is to state "the chief facts of each man's life, his
                    contributions to business, the reasons for his success, and his ethical outlook in simple
                    non-technical language that any high school student or adult can understand" (p. viii). It
                    is his belief that the work will be helpful "as a supplemental text or reference reading
                    for introductory business courses, economic history, industrial history, and courses dealing with
                    business organization and business ethics, business leaders and business leadership" (p.
                    ix) as well as to the general reader and to anyone engaged in business.
            The sources used in the preparation of these sketches have been published books, articles, and
                    newspapers, recent and contemporary, but manuscript materials such as the personal or business
                    papers of the men concerned were not included. Each sketch is offered in a chronological narrative,
                    and woven into each narrative is an assessment of the contribution of each man to business and
                    economic development.
            Joseph A. Batchelor Indiana University
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
