
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 011, Issue 2, pages 99-186. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:011+issue:2+year:1915&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
      
         
         
            Steam-boating on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                         Mississippi 
                     Before the Civil War
            Memoirs of CAPT. WILSON DANIELS, of 
                        Troy
                    , Indiana. Edited by PRESTON A. BARBA, Ph.D., Indiana University.
            During a recent trip to Tell City, Ind., made for the purpose of collecting
                    material for a history of that interesting Swiss settlement on the 
                        Ohio
                    , there came to my notice a manuscript containing the memoirs
                    printed below. The manuscript is in the possession of Mr. Louis Zoercher, editor
                    of the Tell City News, who has very generously placed it at my
                    disposal. These memoirs deserve to be published, not only because they reflect
                    an interesting phase of river life in America, but also because their author was
                    one who had witnessed the growth of river steam-boating almost from its infancy,
                    a rare old man, himself a pilot for sixty years. Capt. Wilson H. Daniel was born
                    in 
                        Troy
                    , Ind., on May 25, 1824. On September 8, 1840, the young man began
                    his career on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     by becoming an apprentice as steersman. He served steadily in that
                    capacity from 1840 to 1896, and irregularly after that time, spending in all
                    about sixty years of his life on the rivers. In his latter years he wrote a book
                    which was published under the title "Sixty Years of
                    Steam-boating." Captain Daniel had acquired considerable wealth but he
                    lost heavily during the Civil War, and again later upon the failure of some
                    steamboat companies. In spite of these reverses he retained his bright and
                    optimistic temperament to the end. His long and interesting life came to a close
                    in 
                        Jasper
                    , Ind., May 29, 1914, a few days after the ninetieth anniversary of
                    his birth. During his many years as river-pilot he had ample opportunity to
                    study men and their ways, but he was also not without book learning. He was a
                    great reader down to his last days, and was recognized as a well informed man.
            P. A. B.
            On the eighth day of September, in the year eighteen hundred and forty, I left
                    this beautiful little town, 
                        Troy
                    , Indiana, nestling on the banks of the great 
                        Ohio
                     river, my place of birth and nativity, on  the steamer "Water Witch," for 
                        New Orleans
                    , with Capt. Isaac Wright, my mother's brother, whom she
                    had not seen for twenty-four years. She was but a small child when he left this
                    place for the South with a flatboat loaded with bulk pork. At Natchez, Miss., he
                    transferred his cargo to a keel boat and cordelled it up Red river to 
                        Natchitoches
                    , La., and there disposed of his cargo and bought the keel and
                    followed keel boating between those two points and kept it up for a number of
                    years. This proved a success.
            In the spring of 1840 he came home for the first time for twenty-four years to
                    see his parents and relatives, and to build a steamboat for that trade. You may
                    imagine the rejoicing that ensued at the meeting of a lost son and father and
                    mother, who were quite aged, nephews and nieces he had never seen. Things had
                    materially changed since his departure. He remained a short time and proceeded
                    to New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, to build or buy a steamboat for the Red river trade. He
                    prevailed on my mother to allow me to go with him in the capacity of second
                    clerk. He depicted the allurements, the sights and beauties, the money there was
                    in store for me, the salubrious clime of the South, alligators, bear, deer, and
                    panthers, etc., until my childish mind was wrought up to such a frenzy that
                    sleep was entirely forgotten. As soon as it was known to my playmates and school
                    fellows that I was going away to that 
                        New Orleans
                     which was then considered by us here out of the world, my friends
                    came from far and near to see me and talk over our old times. Many of them
                    predicted I never would get back and did many things to discourage me. Some of
                    their arguments were so forcible, especially by the young ladies, that my mind
                    was all in a muddle, but as time passed on, and while waiting to hear from the
                    boat, my mind became more and more reconciled.
            At last news came. The boat would soon be here, in a few days at least. Then my
                    troubles began to show. The playmates would congregate at my mother's
                    in the evening and predict everything bad and this was not very pleasant to the
                    ears of my poor old mother and she was loath to see me leave, and
                    didn't give me very much encouragement. All this kept my mind very much
                    at sea and troubled. Mother had made me a fine suit of Fried Jeans clothes and a
                    new pair of shoes. The last they were made on I think was a brick bat from the
                    shape, and a cap made of some kind of an animal. It was not a coon, but I think
                    it was called a hair seal.
            The boat got in late in the evening and remained all night and  the next day till noon. All relations and friends
                    congregated at mother's house to see us off and sat up all night
                    talking. I laid down but no sleep for me. My heart and mind were too heavy for
                    slumber. When I crawled out of my feather bed Thursday, in front of me on a
                    chair lay my new suit with instructions to put them on so my friends could see
                    how they fit. I crawled into them and began viewing from head to foot, no
                    looking-glass in my room to assist me. After all were in shape I, felt abashed
                    somewhat, to be rigged up in such fine harness, as it was the finest I had ever
                    worn and everybody was looking at me with a gaze that made me shudder. But I
                    picked up courage to enter the room where the friends were waiting for
                    breakfast. As soon as I entered the room, all exclaimed at the same time: What a
                    pretty suit! How nicely it fits! etc. At last old aunt Nellie 
                        Lincoln
                    , the one who spun and wove the cloth, and an aunt of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , our martyred president, came from the kitchen and said to me:
                    "Come here, Wilson, let Aunt Nellie look at your fine
                    clothes." She led me to the door to the light and after looking
                    thoroughly, exclaimed: "That's the finest suit of clothes ever
                    was in the town of 
                        Troy
                    ." That remark relieved me of a heavy load, I assure you.
                    Then Capt. Wright came to look and mother said: "Isaac, do you think
                    them clothes good enough to go on a steamboat?" He remarked they were
                    fine and the very things to wear on a cotton boat, as the cotton would not stick
                    to them.
            After breakfast was over we commenced to pack my trunk, a very small one at that,
                    an old-fashioned hair trunk, just a box covered with hog skin and not much
                    larger than a loaf of bread. In it were six pairs of yarn socks, and another
                    pair of pants, and no underwear at all, for in those days no person wore
                    underclothing. It was too expensive to be afforded.
            Well, after we had gotten my little old hair trunk packed, I took it on my
                    shoulder and started down the middle of the street for the boat, only one square
                    from my mother's house, and had to pass by the house that a beautiful
                    young lady lived in and one whom I thought was as sweet as a pumpkin and pretty
                    as red shoes, and I was more than anxious to get by her without being discovered
                    by the young lady, as I knew she would make some remark about my new suit. I
                    proceeded on down the middle of the street, my trunk on my shoulder, headed
                    straight for the boat and just as I got opposite the door where this young lady
                    lived, she threw the door wide  open and
                    commenced singing a comic song she had learned from a song book. The song was
                    something like this (sung loud as she could, so every one could hear): 
                        "Here he comes dressed from his head to his toe, Just look at
                            the riggin' of Billy Barlow,"
                     and thus kept the song going until I got to the river. I thought for a
                    moment I would turn around and say a cuss word at her, but my mother had taught
                    me to always be polite to every one, especially to ladies.
            After getting under the river bank, hidden from the gaze of the town people, I
                    felt very much relieved, but unfortunately ran into a much worse predicament,
                    for just as I was approaching the walk plank on the boat, here came a nigger
                    porter to take my trunk on the boat; says he: "Wha is you gwine ? Is
                    you a passenger on dis boat?" I, boy-like, told him all. "What
                    you gwine to do dar? Is you gwine to wah dem kind a close down dar in de big
                    city ? Dems de kine of close niggers wah in ole Forginney wha I come
                    frum."
            Well, I thought to myself, won't people ever get tired of talking about
                    my clothes. I thought I would put them aside and never put them on again, and
                    when I got back to my house, the first thing that greeted my ears was:
                    "What did the folks say about your new suit on the boat?"
            Well, I went in to the garden and sat down and took a big cry and thought to
                    myself "d—m these clothes, I will never put them on
                    again!" While I was relieving the strain on my mind by sobs and tears,
                    old Aunt Nellie 
                        Lincoln
                     came and threw her arms around my neck and said: "Now, my
                    dear boy, don't cry any more and be a good boy, and all will be right,
                    and we will all write to you, and every fiatboat that goes from here we will
                    send you some nice presents." But I said: "Aunt Nellie, if the
                    people would quit looking at me all the time, it would all be right, but every
                    one has something to say to me about my clothes." She remarked:
                    "That's be-case they are the finest clothes in the town, and
                    you ought to be proud of them."
            While Aunt Nellie was trying to soothe my troubles, dinner was announced. Mother
                    came to the door and said, "Come, my dear boy, and eat your last dinner
                    with your poor mother," and that remark started anew my already
                    troubled mind which had somewhat been allayed by the loving and kind talk of old
                    Aunt Nellie's. We  all took seats
                    at the table and among the luxuries we had a pot-pie made of squirrels with a
                    plethora of rich gravy. My plate was helped heaping full of dumplings, squirrel
                    and gravy, and amongst the plateful was the hind leg of the squirrel, quite
                    large and tough, too. I tried to carve it, but without any success, scared all
                    the time for fear of getting grease on my new clothes, but said nothing. Finally
                    mother said: "You have a tough piece. It can't be
                    cut." So Aunt Nellie says: "Take it in your fingers. They were
                    made before forks, but be careful you don't get any grease on your new
                    clothes." I said: "My God, can't I do anything
                    without something being said about my fine clothes ?"
            After being through with dinner, all proceeded to the river bank to bid us a
                    final adieu. I lagged back in the rear to get a short interview with the one
                    young lady I was extremely partial to, and we walked slowly side by side, and
                    made the preliminaries for the future which were kept inviolate till the time
                    set for the consummation of that solemn vow which came to pass September 16,
                    1847. This vow was kept in perfect bliss for fifty-four years. The bell on the
                    boat was ringing and steam up all ready to turn her prow toward the sunny South
                    and to lose sight of the loved ones who were grouped together on the bank of the
                    river to bid us a final adieu. I don't think there was a dry eye in the
                    great throng of friends that came to see us off.
            When the boat left her moorings, I made my way to the hurricane roof to take a
                    farewell view of my native heath and place of birth, this being the first and
                    only boat I had ever put my feet on.
            Looking back at every familiar object that presented itself then, the group of
                    friends still huddled together with waving handkerchiefs as we were leaving them
                    far in the distance, I could see that loving old mother still weeping and wiping
                    the tears from her eyes. Still I gazed, my heart still growing weaker and
                    heavier, until the boat rounded the point and lost to sight that dear old town,
                    mother and friends still following me with their tear wet eyes. The sad thoughts
                    were more than I could stand. Alas! I broke down and boohooed right out. I
                    thought at one moment I would jump into the river and swim ashore as I was a
                    good swimmer and knew I could make the shore.
            Whilst I was soliloquizing what to do I heard footsteps on the roof approaching
                    me from the forward part of the boat. I was weeping, my head drooping, with
                    handkerchief to my eyes, heeding  not those
                    footsteps approaching me. At last there was a gentle hand laid on my shoulder
                    which aroused me from my stupor. I raised my eyes to see the cause. There were
                    two men standing over me. One was an old gentleman and the other a youth some
                    older than myself. The old gentleman was quite old and very large. He still kept
                    his hand on my shoulder. I looked up into his face and saw his sympathetic
                    countenance looking me in the face. I felt some little relief. He accosted me
                    thus: "Son, don't grieve. This is very trying on you, I know
                    from experience, as I myself once had a mother I had to leave as you are doing,
                    but it turned out all right and this will be all right with you in a few days as
                    you are among your friends. Come, don't sit here. Come and go with
                    me." When I had wiped the tears from my eyes I looked up and to my
                    great joy and surprise there stood an old friend, John W. Cannon, with whom I
                    played and slept many nights and of whom I shall speak farther on in my memoirs.
                    The old gentleman that spoke so kindly to me was one of the pilots of the boat,
                    Captain Henry Lee, a fine old 
                        Virginia
                     gentleman, badly afflicted with gout and rheumatism, could scarcely
                    walk and very religious. He had an impediment in his speech, lisped somewhat,
                    finely educated, very companionable, and exceedingly interesting in
                    conversation. He invited Cannon and myself into the pilot-house, introduced us
                    to his partner, Capt. Wm. Hale. We sat down and the conversation that greeted my
                    ears considerably relieved my troubled mind for the time being, and was
                    certainly a great relief to me.
            We ran only in daylight, as the river was quite low, and besides we had two
                    flatboats in tow, loaded with apples, potatoes and other produce. We got to
                    Yellow Banks, now Owensboro, Ky., just at sundown. There we stayed all night. I
                    had an uncle and aunt living there, quite wealthy. After supper was over on the
                    boat, my uncle, Capt. Wright, and myself went to their residence and there
                    stayed until 12 o'clock. My uncles sat and talked about old times,
                    about the times when they had to walk back from 
                        New Orleans
                     to this point, and related the peril and hardships connected
                    thereto. But my aunt and I were talking about me and my mother and my future
                    prospects. The advice given me that night by my good Aunt Peggy Morton never
                    will be erased from my memory. When it was announced we must go to the boat,
                    Aunt Peggy said: "Isaac, could not Betsy have gotten something better
                    suited for Wilson's  suit than
                    this," feeling it at the same time. "This is certainly good
                    stuff but not suitable for the occasion."
            Then I thought to myself: D—m these clothes. Won't I never
                    hear the last of them? And when she kissed me goodbye she put into my hands a
                    small bible which I have to this day and prize it very highly. On the flyleaf
                    are these lines: Presented to Wilson Hunt Daniel by his Aunt Margaret Morton.
                    Yellow Banks, 
                        Daviess county
                    , Ky., Sept. 8th, 1840.
            The boat was very full of passengers and consequently there was no berth for me
                    to sleep on. Having already lost so much sleep in the excitement and trouble of
                    leaving home, I was very drowsy, so Capt. Wright took me over on one of the
                    flatboats which had a small cabin and two bunks, nothing but straw for a bed.
                    This was something I had never been used to at home; all nice clean feather beds
                    to go to there. This I thought was a terrible place to sleep, but after some
                    talk the man on the top shelf as I called them, woke up, and who should it be
                    but John W. Cannon, with whom I had slept many nights. This quieted my nerves
                    and I turned in clothes and all, my fine suit at that, being very tired and had
                    lost so much sleep. Although on a straw shelf, I slept soundly.
            At daylight I was woken up by the loud commands of the mate to the deck hands to
                    launch in the planks, and cast off the lines, then the escaping of the boat. I
                    sprang out of my nest of straw and climbed to the top of the flatboat, looked
                    for some place to was my face and hands. Finally I found a bucket, dipped up
                    some water, washed and took my handkerchief for a towel. Then I sauntered over
                    to the steamboat and there I met my uncle, Capt. Wright. He said:
                    "Sonny, how did you rest last night ?" I told him. He said:
                    "Now after breakfast I want you to go into the pilot house and help the
                    old man pull down on the wheel. He is so crippled. He will learn you how to
                    steer the boat." This was a great relief to my mind and was what I most
                    desired. I went to my breakfast and sat next to Capt. Lee,the pilot, who
                    immediately engaged me in conversation and said: "As soon as you are
                    through with breakfast, come up to the pilot house. I will put you to
                    work." This was pleasant news to me, I assure you. I hastened to the
                    pilot house as quick as I could. The old gentleman opened the door and invited
                    me in. We were then approaching French Island Bar, a very shoal and difficult
                    place to get over. The engine was stopped and the yawl sent out with Capt. Hale,
                    the other pilot, to sound the  bar and find
                    the channel and see if there was sufficient water for the boat. He took the
                    sounding stick, the yawl worked all over the bar and finally I saw the oars
                    raised up on end, a signal to us to come ahead. As soon as the boat was in
                    motion Capt. Lee said: "Now, sonny, you go to that side of the wheel
                    and when I tell you to pull or shove, pull as hard as you can and I will tell
                    you when to stop. He tapped the bell for leadsman to heave the lead, who would
                    sing out to the Captain the depth of the water. Then the Captain would pass the
                    word back to the pilot. The first cast was 8 feet, the next 7 feet, then shoaler
                    and shoaler, till 41/2 was called; then
                    she began to rub on the bottom. I was considerably excited. The rolling and
                    cracking of the boat and all shouting: "She is still going! Give it to
                    her! Give it to her," etc., etc. I was standing on the side of the
                    wheel where the speaking trumpet ran to the engineer. The pilot hollowed to me:
                    "Put your mouth to that trumpet and tell him to give it to her as loud
                    as you can." I put my mouth to the trumpet and sang out: "Give
                    it to her." But just as we were about to get to deep water, the flat on
                    the upper side picked up on the upper reef of the bar and all swung around
                    across the channel. So there we were until dinner time and I had become cool.
                    Excitement had subsided. Capt. Lee began to praise my dexterity in handling the
                    wheel and said to the Captain: "I have the best partner I could have
                    possibly gotten and I am going to make a pilot out of him."
            The praise and encomiums given me by the old gentleman elevated me considerably
                    and had a soothing effect on my troubled mind, I assure you, as I had begun to
                    feel at home somewhat. After getting off of French Island Bar and while on our
                    way rejoicing, Capt. Lee remarked: "We will soon be to Scuffle town, a
                    worse bar than this, but I think we will get through all right." So as
                    we approached the bar the yawl was gotten in readiness for sounding the channel
                    and we landed on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river. The yawl started on her mission. They rowed up
                    and down and across, back and forth for a considerable time. At last the oars
                    went up as a signal to come on. All the time while at the bank and watching the
                    maneuvering of the yawl Capt. Lee was giving me instructions how I must do and
                    to stand by the speaking trumpet, and when he gave me the word, to hollow as
                    loud as I could in the trumpet: "Give it to her." I began to
                    feel quite important. Both leads were started. Shoaler and shoaler the water
                    became, and when nearing the Indiana shore, up she came on a bluff bar with a
                    fearful crash  which made my heart nearly
                    jump into my mouth. It was so sudden. The men sounding had not gone that far and
                    had not sounded the most important places, so there we were till sundown. The
                    bar was so bluff, and we came against it so hard, it caused the boat to take
                    water. It sprang some of the butts and caused her to leak considerable. She was
                    sparred around thus relieving the strain on the Hull and the leak soon ceased.
                    We got off of the bar at sundown and dropped down to the little town about a
                    mile, called Sprinkles-burg, now called New Burg, Ind. We laid there all night,
                    shoved out from there quite early in the morning and we had a nice run all that
                    day, no casualties, and laid by that night at Cave In Rock, a place of notoriety
                    at that time. It was the rendezvous of highwaymen and river pirates. It was said
                    to be a hiding place for the notorious John A. Murril and his band of
                    cutthroats, and Mike Fink, the river pirate and counterfeiter. I had read in a
                    book the many thrilling adventures of flatboat men and emigrants crossing there
                    at Ford's Ferry to the 
                        Illinois
                     territory; how they were robbed and murdered, stealing horses and
                    cattle, and running to 
                        St. Louis
                    ; and many hair raising tales which were fresh to my memory. This
                    interested me very much to know I had seen and explored this notorious place.
                    The captain of the boat ordered torches and lanterns lighted, and passengers,
                    crew and all visited the notorious cave, and with the glare of the light it
                    showed up to its dismal and hair-raising perfection. There were many initials of
                    men's name cut in the solid rock inside the cave. An old gentleman who
                    kept a wood yard there was our guide and after entering the cave he narrated
                    many incidents and crimes that were perpetrated there and pointed out a place
                    where there was a heap of ashes where people were burned at the stake. His blood
                    curdling narrative made my young blood run cold in my veins and many of the
                    ladies who accompanied us ran out and could not listen to all the horrors
                    enumerated by our guide. I, boy-like, swallowed it all and when we started for
                    the boat I was afraid to be in the rear of the crowd, and when we got to the
                    boat it was the whole conversation till time to go to bed and when I started for
                    my nest of straw on the flatboat to lie me down, I could imagine many things and
                    really I got very little sleep that night. John Cannon was, I think, more
                    superstitious than I, as he had been raised with his father's niggers
                    and they told so many ghost stories that he believed them. In the night he would
                    nudge and say: "Did you hear that," or "Did you see
                    that," etc., etc. The consequence 
                    was neither got any sleep that night. This visit to the cave was certainly a
                    great sight to me. With other things, all new and strange, it kept my mind
                    perplexed.
            The prospect I had in view of becoming a pilot and going clear down to 
                        New Orleans
                     and nearly to the sea, all this put on a mere child's
                    mind, is hard to comprehend.
            Well, we got out early the next morning. Everything went smoothly till we got to
                    the Three Sister Islands. There the yawl was called in requisition. We sounded
                    there for several hours, but fortunately we found just enough water by rubbing
                    very hard to get through.
            We got to Paducah that day and there lay all night. We were afraid to run the
                    Grand Chain that night. Shoved out from there after breakfast. I had the
                    pleasure of seeing the 
                        Cumberland
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     rivers, and now I longed to see the big muddy, the great 
                         Mississippi 
                    , that I had read of so often. We arrived there in the afternoon and
                    landed at what was known at Bird's Point, but now the city of Cairo.
                    There the boat lay by to clean boilers and put new packing in the cylinder. John
                    Cannon, and a man named Bruce, who owned one of the flatboats, and myself,
                    walked down the beach to where the currents of the two rivers commingled, to
                    view the mighty 
                         Mississippi 
                     river. Then we gazed in wonderment, but very soon our eyes were
                    drawn to something more attractive which caused us to forget the great river.
                    The whole banks or sandbars on either river were a mass of quail or partridges.
                    I have never in my life seen such a grand sight. They had come from the prairies
                    to the river, but unable to fly across either stream there they were by the
                    millions running up and down each river until they had made paths and roads. We
                    killed a great many with sticks and clubs and took them to the boat. We met Dick
                    Bird, the man this point took its name from, and he said we could look for a
                    cold winter, as the quails and prairie chickens were leaving the prairies and
                    trying to get south to escape the cold.
            We left Bird's Point the next day on our journey to 
                        New Orleans
                    . When we came to where the waters of the two great rivers came in
                    contact, we were surprised at the great contrast, the 
                        Ohio
                     as clear as crystal, and the 
                         Mississippi 
                     as muddy apparently as a hog wallow. This was another great sight
                    to a green boy as I was. Then another great contrast was the banks and long,
                    sweeping bends in the river, the rapid current, the swirls, and monster snags
                    that  invaded the channel and stood the
                    defiance of all comers and goers. This put a shudder over me to remember as long
                    as life exists. I was in the pilot house all this time with that kind old 
                        Virginia
                     gentleman, Capt. Henry Lee, one of the pilots, and was all the time
                    explaining to my eager ears all about the river, and instructing me in
                    manipulating the wheel, all instructive and beneficial to me, and I took it as
                    good fatherly advice and I assure you I adhered strictly to all he said and have
                    found all he said was to my advantage through life.
            Nothing of great import put in an appearance until we stopped at 
                        Randolph
                    . The roof of the boat and flats were covered with cabbage as
                    freight. I was sitting in the pilot house looking at the great bluffs, and into
                    the mouth of Big Hatchee river that comes into the 
                         Mississippi 
                     at that place. I discovered a large drove of fowls coming down the
                    bluff toward the boat and took them to be turkeys. All at once they soared up
                    into the air and came direct to the boat, covered one flat, and many came on the
                    steamboat, and as soon as they struck the boat they began to devour the cabbage.
                    Those were the first pea-fowls I had ever seen. They were very beautiful, I
                    assure you, and I think they were Dutch birds. The manner in which they pitched
                    into those cabbages is conclusive evidence they were Dutch birds, and I think
                    they are the genuine Dutch mockingbird from the noise they make when disturbed.
            We had not met a single steamboat on this trip so far, but immediately after
                    leaving 
                        Randolph
                     we saw two boats running a race coming up around Island
                    Thirty-five. One had red chimneys; that was the
                    "Walk-in-the-Water;" the other the "Red
                    Rover." They were shoving them to their utmost. The crew was singing,
                    and I thought it the most beautiful sight I had ever seen. The pretty red
                    chimneys took my eye, and I wanted her to beat the other because of her pretty
                    red chimneys.
            And there I saw niggers picking cotton, the first I had seen on the trip. We ran
                    on until in the night and landed at the mouth of Wolf river. There were a few
                    houses there but I was not informed if there was a town or not, but he pointed
                    out Wolf river to me.
            I was exceedingly attached to the pilot house and Capt. Lee, and stuck close to
                    my post. The old captain took particular pains to explain the river to me and
                    gave me the history of all events that had occurred during his long time and
                    experience on the river. He first began to run the river on barges before there
                    were any steamboats  in existence and told
                    many hardships he encountered on those barges and pointed out places where they
                    had terribly hard work in getting their barge around some points where a heavy
                    current confronted them. He showed me many trees where they made the barge fast
                    to, to rest the crew, with many thrilling adventures and escapes from drowning
                    and many encounters with bears swimming the river. This was all exciting and
                    interesting to my young mind, I assure you. Thus he had learned the river by
                    pulling on a rope and shoving with poles; slow traveling, but this was the only
                    process by which merchants were enabled to get sugar, rice, coffee, molasses,
                    etc., up the river.
            On the downward trip the boatmen had plenty fun and a fine time generally. They
                    had plenty of guns on board, killed many bear, deer, turkeys, ducks and geese,
                    lived splendidly, always had a good fiddler on board, danced and played cards as
                    they floated down stream. But when they turned her prow homeward, then the hard
                    work began.
            By this time I had become quite expert at manipulating the wheel and could steer
                    right along in good rivers and was married to the profession of a pilot. The old
                    gentleman saw that I was very attentive and much interested and paid strict
                    attention to his narratives. It appeared to be a great pleasure for him to talk
                    to me and I certainly became very much attached to him and I was of great
                    benefit to him in his deplorable and crippled condition, as I was getting so
                    that I did most of the steering.
            When we were nearing Island Number Sixty-five he said: "Now we are
                    coming to another rendezvous of river pirates and robbers, Islands Sixty-five
                    and Sixty-six, where many a poor flatboat-man has lost his life by those
                    pirates." The pirates would board the flatboats in numbers large enough
                    to overpower the crew, murder all, then run the flatboat on to 
                        New Orleans
                    , there dispose of her contents, then come back to their place of
                    hiding. This clan was supposed to be a part of the gang of the notorious John A.
                    Murril, who was a perfect terror in the South for a number of years. Finally
                    this clan was detected accidentally and in the following manner.
            There was a trading-boat with a miscellaneous cargo on board stopped at the shore
                    for the night, and as those thieves were always on the alert watching for their
                    prey, they discovered the boats, and after dark stealthily slipped on board
                    pretending to buy something. After a short while others of the gang made their
                    appearance.  Soon there was quite a crowd.
                    They soon began quarreling with the proprietor. A young man from 
                        Memphis
                    , who had hired on the boat, saw danger in sight, slipped back to
                    the after-end of the boat and crawled through the window and dropped into the
                    river and hid himself under the rake of the boat. There happened to be a pin in
                    the gunwale of the boat which he grasped with his hand, hidden entirely from
                    view. He there heard the report of guns, the shrieks and groans of his
                    companions, a terrible predicament to be in, but he was afraid to stir from his
                    place of hiding. He watched them loot the boat of her contents, then cut the
                    boat loose, and let her drift on with the current. But they did not forget to
                    cut a hole in her so she would sink to hide their hideous crime. This young man
                    still clung to the pin until he had drifted out of harm's way, then
                    crawled up on the wreck and sat there until the wind blew the wreck to the
                    shore. He jumped to the shore and walked down the river until he espied a
                    steamboat coming up, hailed her and got on for 
                        Memphis
                    , his home. Those cutthroats kept wood-yards for boats at several
                    places. This boat that this young man boarded was out of wood when she arrived
                    near where this great murder had just been committed. The captain espied a rick
                    of wood on the bank, and rang the big bell to land. This brought the owner of
                    the wood to get his pay for it and brought others who were lying around in the
                    canebrake. This young man was looking to see if he recognized any of the parties
                    to this great crime. At a glance he saw the very ones that had just, a few hours
                    since, murdered his companions. Some had blood on their clothing. Still he kept
                    mum and never told it until a few miles from 
                        Memphis
                    . Then he named it to the captain and told him he saw the same men
                    that did the murder at the wood-yard, and that he had a scheme by which he was
                    going to capture them.
            He immediately went to his friends and narrated the circumstances and his plan to
                    catch them. They were to fit up a nice trading boat, make her attractive, fitted
                    for the occasion, put fifty determined men on board, duly armed, ropes, stones
                    of large size the sink their bodies to the bottom of the river, put in a nice
                    saloon in the forward part of the boat, put in a partition so as to hide the men
                    from view. Three men were selected to man the boat. They started on down on
                    their horrible mission and made it convenient to reach the coveted landing at
                    sunset. This was done to a nicety. The boat was landed at the identical place
                    where this murder was  perpetrated but a
                    short time before. The plan was to let all the pirates on board and to wait on
                    them at the bar and keep them engaged in conversation. The men in the rear at, a
                    signal were to step out on the bank and walk around to the forward part of the
                    boat and rush in on them, thus taking them by surprise. When the bandits saw
                    their predicament, some drew their bowies to cut their way out, but the guard
                    had them covered with their rifles. They saw no hope whatever, only surrender.
                    They were twenty-eight in number. As soon as all were disarmed, they put
                    handcuffs on them or tied their arms. The ropes for the occasion were brought
                    forward with those heavy stones tied to them. Then the boat was loosened from
                    her moorings and drifted out into deep water. Those poor devils were tied
                    together in pairs. A plank was arranged so one end would project over the water.
                    Then those devils were made to walk the plank into that muddy river in pairs. As
                    soon as they struck the water their heads went down and heels up, thus wiping
                    out of existence at one fell swoop the greatest clan of desperadoes that ever
                    existed in the 
                         Mississippi 
                     Valley.
            Those thrilling, bloodcurdling events, as told by my old friend Lee caused me to
                    forget my troubles about my new suit of fried jeans clothing, for a while at
                    least. He told me other thrilling scenes that had occurred around and near those
                    Islands Sixty-five and Sixty-six which I will not mention in this chapter.
            The boat proceeded on down without passing another place of notoriety until we
                    reached Natchez, Miss. Natchez under the Hill was noted for the many dance
                    houses and gambling dens, all under the great bluff and immediately at the
                    steamboat landing. There we landed and left our flatboats and we ourselves
                    remained there a considerable time. The sound of the fiddle and voice of the
                    prompter was all the time to be heard. You could see all kinds of games and
                    chicken fights in the streets, playing "seven-up" on bales of
                    cotton. Money was so plentiful around Natchez, you might pick it up most any
                    moment on the streets, and murders innumerable. Notwithstanding, it was a great
                    trading-point, and you could see an acre of flatboats lying at the wharf all the
                    time, all selling as fast as the customers could be waited On
            There I saw the first ship. There were eighteen sailing-vessels lying there, some
                    loading cotton, some discharging cargoes of merchandise. Capt. Lee pointed to
                    the sand-bar opposite the city and said that bar was called "bloody
                    bar," it being the place where James  Bowie fought two duels and killed his man each time. Thus the name
                    "bloody bar." Col. James Bowie was the man who invented the
                    famous deadly weapon called "bowie knife" from the
                    inventor's name. He was killed at the battle of the 
                        Alamo
                    , 
                        Texas
                    , by Mexicans,
            After leaving Natchez we began to meet steamboats and tow-boats with ships on
                    their way to Natchez. We ran on down to Ruth's Point, the landing for
                    Red river. After leaving Ruth's we never stopped until we reached 
                        Baton Rouge
                    . We went flying after we dropped our two flats. Leaving 
                        Baton Rouge
                     early in the morning I was left alone at the wheel and Capt. Lee
                    took a seat in the front of the pilot house to tell how to run. I felt my
                    importance, I assure you. I thought I was a sure enough pilot steering along
                    those beautiful long reaches in the river. When nearing the mouth of Bayou
                    Manchac, Capt. Lee sang out to me: "Do you see that little creek or
                    bayou there," pointing his finger. I said: "Yes,
                    sir." "Well," said he, "that bank or levee
                    was thrown up thar by order of Gen. Jackson to keep the redcoats from getting
                    through at the time of the battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    . That was another point of historical fact quite interesting to me
                    indeed, as I had often read about that memorable battle, and this Bayou Manchac
                    brought vividly to my mind all that I had read and heard from old neighbors and
                    relatives who had participated in that battle.
            As we proceeded on our downward course, the river became prettier all the time,
                    those beautiful sugar plantations looked like towns to my untutored mind, fine
                    residences, and beautiful spreading live-oak trees, were too grand for me to
                    describe, but I thought to myself: "This certainly is where Adam and
                    Eve were turned loose in the Garden of Eden," and I still am leaning in
                    that direction, for it is certainly the most beautiful part of this country.
            When nearing the city Captain Lee said: "See that old deadening of trees
                    away down thar." I said I did. "Well," said he,
                    "right thar is the great city that you have longed to see." As
                    we drew nearer and closer I could see the hulks of vessels all black painted,
                    then I began to see the tall, selnder masts, the spreading yardarms, flags of
                    all nations flying. My eyes stared with awe and amazement. It appeared to me
                    that my mind was not right and my vision impaired, still I was thrilled
                    with' joy that I could not express. Those great masts of the vessels
                    looked at a great distance very similar to the old deadened beech timbers where
                    I  was raised. But as the boat ran very near
                    the ships it gave me a chance to take a satisfactory view of them. They were
                    moored to the wharf three and four in a tier for a distance of five or six
                    miles. You can imagine what an impression it made upon the mind of a young
                    country boy who had never been outside of maternal surveillance before.
            When we landed at the pier at the foot of Custom House Street there were slips in
                    between the piers wide enough to admit two small steamers at the same time. The
                    "Water Witch" had this slip exclusively and we shoved up into
                    it until our stage-plank would reach the sidewalk at the old custom house. The
                    new one is on the same ground now. Those piers extended from the lower part of
                    the city, its entire length, a distance of twelve miles. They were put upon
                    piling driven in the mud and the flooring put on the piling", but now
                    it is all a solid plank wharf the entire length of the city. When the
                    "Water Witch" landed the first time the bank was built out two
                    squares and had fine houses on it.
            I give this brief sketch to show what marvelous changes have occurred since my
                    advent as a river pilot on the 
                         Mississippi 
                    . On the morning after our arrival Captain Lee said:
                    "Let's go to the French Market," which was a few
                    blocks below where we were landed. So we sallied forth and this was the greatest
                    sight to me that I ever witnessed. Tropical fruits galore, all nationalities in
                    the wide world there, the different languages spoken, different dress, all
                    combined, made an impression on my mind never to be forgotten. We visited the
                    fruits and vegetable stands and found everything like summer in Indiana; then
                    the fish and oyster department where we saw crabs, crawfish, shrimps and snails
                    by the cart-load. I thought to myself: The people here must be the filthiest
                    people in God's kingdom. The idea of eating such things was
                    preposterous to my young mind. It really made me sick to think of such things.
                    While we were looking at those nasty things it caused me to forget my fine suit
                    of fried jeans. But two men were standing close to us. One said to the other:
                    "Winter is coming; do you see those snow-birds? Look at that
                    one's feathers," and pointed at my clothes. I thought to
                    myself: My Lord, won't people ever get done talking about my suit?
            I was not very favorably impressed with the city, I assure you, and longed to get
                    away from it. We went back to the boat and breakfast was ready. As we sat down
                    to the table, the first thing  that
                    attracted my eyes were crabs and oysters right at my place. It made me so sick,
                    I left the table and ran to the guard and there laughed up all in my stomach. No
                    breakfast that day for me. When the captain came to the boat, I went to him
                    crying and said I wanted to go home as I did not like 
                        New Orleans
                    . He laughed at me and said: "It will all be right in a few
                    days; don't get homesick," and after talking to me for a short
                    time, got me a little reconciled.
            Just at that moment the agent for the boat came to the captain and told him there
                    was a shipload of Dutch [Germans] lying at quarantine, wanting to go to 
                        St. Louis
                     and as they had ship fever on board and would not be allowed to
                    land in the city, he could get a big price to take them, and besides, the Yellow
                    Fever was almost epidemic. Since there was no other boat in port to take them he
                    could get his own price to take them. We will take them, said the captain, if
                    there is any money in it. So the agent started to see what could be done. In a
                    very short time the agent returned and told what contract he had made. The
                    captain said: "I'll take them, and will be ready
                    tomorrow." This was good news to me, you bet.
            The vessel was at Slaughter House Point, now called Algiers, opposite the city.
                    We took on some other miscellaneous freight and then went alongside of the
                    vessel to take on our cargo of living humanity. It was a sad sight to behold.
                    Those poor people had been cooped up in that vessel's hold for over
                    ninety days since embarking from the Old Country. The impure air, and rough
                    food, and crowded to suffocation, had caused ship fever and many had succumbed
                    to the inevitable. They were greatly elated when the boat came to their rescue.
                    The boat was clear and airy, ventilation good, and plenty room for exercise.
                    They were like a lot of fowls just out of a coop. They numbered about eight
                    hundred, with those old-fashioned Kiester the Germans used in their native land
                    and other trumpery. It gave the little boat about all she wanted for the long
                    trip. We worked all night, the next day until long in the following night, then
                    went to the city to take on provisions and that was an enormous quantity, I
                    assure you. We got under way before the dawn of day, headed for 
                        St. Louis
                    . I was overjoyed and so were those poor Dutch emigrants. We had the
                    same pilot that took us out of the 
                        Ohio
                     river. The first day out from the city the emigrants were all
                    quiet, sleeping and resting, but  next day
                    they were overjoyed at the beautiful plantations and their future prospects.
                    They would gather in groups on the guards and sing and play music and all
                    appeared so happy. It was very soothing to my troubled brain to see them so
                    happy. We were fourteen days on the journey, and had thirty-three deaths before
                    reaching our destination.
            They were met at the wharf at 
                        St. Louis
                     by friends, thus ending our trip.
            We remained in 
                        St. Louis
                     about three weeks, anxiously awaiting to hear the Yellow Fever
                    situation in 
                        New Orleans
                    . The weather here was very cool, but little frost and no rain
                    during our stay. This gave me a fine opportunity to view the surroundings. There
                    was very little city only immediately on the river front. The houses were mostly
                    built with rough stone, quite tall with very narrow streets, sidewalks just wide
                    enough for two persons to walk side by side. The sight was not very inviting,
                    dirty, dingy-looking houses. It appeared to me every store was trading in hides
                    and furs. The Choteaus appeared to be the mainstay of the town. They had a water
                    gristmill near the river. It took its water from a pond called
                    Choteau's Pond. The water ran through a ditch down the steep incline
                    which gave them all the power needed for grinding purposes. It was kept in
                    motion all the time and did a lucrative business. I visited that pond daily and
                    had great sport throwing stones at some water fowls that inhabited it. This
                    great pond I think, as near as I can locate it at this time, was where the Great
                    Southern Hotel now stands, one of the largest hotels in the world, bushes and
                    trees all around it, very few scattering houses to be seen outside from the
                    river bank and beyond the pond. When I look back and reflect, the great
                    opportunities for investments in real estate at that time. I saw plenty lots
                    near the pond with signs up: This lot for sale, 30. At this time it would sell
                    for $30,000 per foot, but I was too young to think about what the
                    future would bring.
            At last news came that there was several white frosts in 
                        New Orleans
                     and Yellow Jack was fast disappearing and Red river was rising, to
                    come on. We soon got a load and was on our way southward. We had a nice trip all
                    the way, no casualties whatever. When we arrived at 
                        New Orleans
                     we found the city clear of fever and business brisk.
            By this time I had become expert at the wheel, could steer anywhere night or day.
                    When we were ready to start for Red river, 
                    pilots were to be hired. The captain of the boat was a practical pilot, and they
                    only hired one pilot, a Mr. Jas. Robinson. I did the steering for the captain
                    who was my uncle. Capt. Lee all the time was advising me to be a pilot and was
                    telling me how I must do and giving me the best fatherly advice and told me to
                    make it an imperative rule when underway to stay up with the other pilot and
                    steer for him and to only sleep four hours in the twenty-four, by so doing I
                    could become a proficient pilot in one season. I took the advice and lived
                    strictly up to it and to my great pleasure and satisfaction he was right. The
                    boat made weekly trips between 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Natchitoches
                     on Red river. Thus I could see the river twice every week, once up
                    and once down, and only sleeping four hours in the twenty-four, I soon picked up
                    all there was in it and before that season was over I was a full-fledged pilot.
            On our first trip down from Red river I was at the wheel, going down that
                    beautiful sugar coast. Mr. Barstow the clerk of the boat came up to the
                    pilot-house and said: "Look out for hails; and every passenger you pick
                    up I will give you fifty cents." You bet I watched the shore closely.
                    There were a great many people travelled in those days and boats were the only
                    mode of travel and this coast is very thickly settled. Hails were very numerous
                    and I never missed a single one. Some landings I would pick up six at a place so
                    you see I was making money very fast. We got in port that night. Mr. Barstow
                    asked at breakfast how many I had picked up. I got my memorandum and it showed
                    thirty-two, so he called me to the office and gave me twenty dollars. It was
                    more than I earned. "Keep that, it is all yours," he said. It
                    was all in half dollars silver. Well, you can't imagine my feelings of
                    joy. I took my money and went to the pilot house and sat down on the floor,
                    counted and recounted several times, then went and put it in my little old hair
                    trunk. That was the most money I had ever had at one time in my life. I felt
                    rich. This mode of taking passengers was kept up all that season and I picked up
                    through that system over two hundred dollars and began to feel quite important.
                    After we had been running about three months the clerk called me to the office
                    and said: "Don't you want some money?" I told him I
                    had all the money given me for picking up passengers. "Yes,"
                    he said, "but did you know you are getting fifty dollars a month
                    wages?" This was a stunner. I said, "No, sir."
                    "Well," said he, "I am instructed to pay you that and
                    here is three month's pay." I  said: "What shall I do with all this
                    money?" The clerk says: "You had better send your mother
                    coffee and sugar with part and I will take care of the balance for
                    you." So I went immediately to a grocer and purchased a barrel of sugar
                    and sack of coffee and shipped it that day. I was so proud to think I could
                    assist my mother in such short time after leaving home. Then I gave all I had
                    left to the clerk for safekeeping, which was a considerable pile for a boy to
                    earn in so short a time. Then I wrote her for the first time since leaving home.
                    I gave her a glowing description of my future and told how much money I had laid
                    by and was becoming reconciled and told her I was to be a pilot instead of a
                    clerk. It took a long time to get a letter in those days, sometimes it took a
                    letter ninety days from 
                        Troy
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     and the postage was twenty-five cents and not prepaid either. What
                    a change has been made in sixty years, although I have been permitted to witness
                    many similar.
            I will give a brief description of the steamer Water Witch. She was a single
                    engine, side wheel boat. The engine was a rotary four feet stroke, twenty inches
                    in diameter, slide valve with three small boilers, single flues, very low
                    between deck, full length cabin open, no state rooms, bunks all curtained, no
                    skylights in the cabin, had a bowsprit same as a sea-going vessel, pilothouse
                    set on the hurricane deck and no glass in it, had canvas curtains to raise or
                    lower as required or suit occasions, the pilot wheel very small and beautifully
                    inlaid with silver and ivory, a twisted linked chain for tiller rope, to guard
                    against fire. This heavy chain made it very hard on the pilot. It took a great
                    deal of power to turn the wheel with the length of chain required for a boat
                    with such small wheel, very little leverage besides. This chain was very
                    annoying to passengers, running through sheaves and a pair of leaders under the
                    cabin floor kept up a continuous squeaking and rattling noise that prevented the
                    guest from sleep, but the law must be enforced regardless of comfort. This chain
                    was so heavy, it was killing to a pilot to handle the wheel. Think of those
                    hundred feet of chain for a man to be compelled to move every minute, day and
                    night, while the boat was running with a small wheel not much larger than a pone
                    of your grandma's bread baked in an old-fashioned skillet, with very
                    little leverage. I to this day feel the effects of handling that wheel, trying
                    to convince people that I was a good pilot, young, vigorous, stout. Many nights
                    I have gone to my bed too much fatigued for 
                    sleep, but too game to complain. Many is the time I have seen my partner so worn
                    out that he was not able to sleep and was not ashamed to say so, being an old
                    man. My ambition made me do really more than was beneficial to my constitution.
                    I was working for a reputation, succeeded, and am proud of my achievements.
                    Well, this steering gearing became the topic of conversation and many ideas were
                    suggested how we could remedy the obstacle. Finally an old sailor came to the
                    rescue and it worked to perfection for a number of years by attaching a manilla
                    rope in such a way as to be detached and attached at will, but the chain must be
                    in its place in port as the informers were plentiful and never forgot to inform
                    on any caught without the tiller chain attached properly. The first night out of
                    port with the new steering tackle will never be forgotten in this life by me, so
                    different, so light, it was play instead of work. We stopped at Twelve Mile
                    Point a few minutes and put on the manilla and detached the chain and proceeded
                    on our way rejoicing and on coming into port again, changed back to first
                    prinples, for as soon as we struck port there were those informers run on board
                    to inspect the steering tackle. It was five dollars to the informant and they
                    were always on the alert for the five you bet. The pilot house on the Water
                    Witch was quite small and low, no glass, canvas curtains instead and no stove to
                    keep you warm, consequently the pilot was at the mercy of wind and rain,
                    especially at night when very dark. He must keep the curtains rolled up so as to
                    see his side and after marks to enable him to guide the boat and keep her in her
                    proper course. Consequently he must get the full benefit of the rain and wind.
                    There was no way to evade it; had to stand and take the weather as it came. Many
                    is the time I have gone to my bunk without a dry piece of clothing on my person,
                    turn in without removing anything but shoes, sleep as soundly and comfortably as
                    if in my mother's nice feather beds at home, and strange as it may
                    appear never given a cold or any ill effect whatever from the wet clothing.
                    Whenever I let the curtains down on a dark night it was like a dark cavern and
                    reminded me of an occurrence in my schoolboy days that happened with one of my
                    chums at school who was always drawing pictures on his slate or copy book and
                    had got many a licking for so doing. He accidently turned his inkstand over and
                    spilled the contents on his copy book. While he was busy trying to get the ink
                    wiped up the teacher came on his rounds and spied the great spot on the paper.
                    The teacher sang out in a  very harsh
                    manner: Here you are Billy making pictures again. Now that's a
                    beautiful specimen for a picture, isn't it? What are you trying to
                    make? That's a nice looking thing, isn't it? Now explain what
                    kind of a thing that is, at the same time thumping him on the head with his
                    finger. Billy raised up and looked the teacher in the face and said in a slow
                    and frightened tone: "Now, Mr. Byrnes, if you don't whoop me I
                    will tell you what it is:" "Go on, explain, don't be
                    all day about it; hurry up. This is a pretty sight; go on."
                    "Well," says Billy, "this is a picture of a black
                    nigger in a dark cellar looking for a black cat." Teacher,
                    "Where is the nigger and where the cat." Billy: "They
                    are in there. This is the cellar, pointing to the black spots and they are in
                    there." Teacher: "I can't see anything but that black
                    spot; show them immediately." Billy: "Well, they are in there
                    sure, but it is so dark, you can't see 'em." The
                    teacher smiled and turned and left Billy cleaning up the ink.
            So it was with the pilot house on the Water Witch when the curtains were all down
                    on a dark night; you could see the dark spot but could not see the man at the
                    wheel or the wheel. Still like the cellar nigger and cat they were there, but it
                    was too dark to see them.
            I merely describe those old time steamboats in a brief way so that the readers
                    may see the progress that has been made in the construction of boats in the
                    short space of sixty years. We have at this time boats that can be described as
                    floating palaces with all modern improvements, that vie with the fines, hotels
                    in the world for comfort and culinary arrangements. When I go back to my first
                    experiences as a cub in the pilot house and then see and know what has
                    transpired in the last sixty years under my vision in the boating and
                    construction of boats, speed and comfort, it is very hard to conceive or realize
                    what may be done in the next sixty years. It is certainly inconceivable. We only
                    speak at this time of the improvement in boats alone, but just think of the very
                    many other devices of propulsion that have come to the fore in this short space
                    of time. Imagine to yourself the old oscillating engine that was used on the
                    first boat that plied the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                         Mississippi 
                     rivers. A man who was a citizen of this little town of 
                        Troy
                    , Indiana, Robert 
                        Fulton
                    , was the man who first conceived the idea of this mode of
                    propulsion and the first to put it in execution. There is not a civilized people
                    on this broad earth today that is not indebted to  this invention of Robert 
                        Fulton
                     and should pay tribute to his memory.
            Whenever I look back on the rude devices of the first boats constructed under 
                        Fulton
                    's personal supervision, the "Beaver" and
                    the "
                        New Orleans
                    "—these were the names of the first boats on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                         Mississippi 
                     rivers—it makes me call to memory the first boat in my
                    advent as a steamboat man, the "Water Witch," which was
                    constructed very much like 
                        Fulton
                    's first boats. This was in the year 1840. Although she was
                    a palace compared to the "Beaver," when I look back and see
                    the inconveniences and rude construction of those old time boats with heavy
                    chains to guide the boat, pilot houses without glass in them and no way of
                    keeping warm, only the feet which we kept incased in buffalo robe overshoes,
                    notwithstanding all those inconveniences, pilots considered them handy and fine,
                    no growling or complaint whatever, only the heavy steering chain which was
                    always a heavy drag and annoyance and caused the pilots to say many cuss-words.
                    This alone convinces me that "ignorance is bliss and it is folly to be
                    wise." At last the captains and pilots got up a memorial or petition to
                    congress to do away with the heavy steering chain and substitute the manilla
                    rope instead. After a long and tedious wrangle and debate our request was
                    granted, but with these restrictions imposed upon us. There must be a pilot
                    wheel placed on the after part of the cabin with chain attachments connected to
                    the rudder. In case of fire this wheel could be used should the manilla rope get
                    burned off. This wheel stood out in the open no house to protect it, which made
                    the boat have an ungainly appearance. This mode was kept up for a considerable
                    period until it was definitely found to be of no improvement or use in saving
                    life or property. This fact was soon demonstrated by the first boat that burned
                    with this fireproof attachment. A cotton boat on Yazoo river with a full cargo
                    of cotton caught fire in the engine room while under way. The pilot stood at his
                    post in the pilot house until the tiller rope was burned. He ran back to the
                    life-saving attachment and took hold of the wheel and ran the boat to shore, and
                    just as the boat struck the bank flames broke out all around him and the roof
                    gave way under him, let him fall into the seething flames there to perish. Thus
                    he saved many lives but lost his by his heroic endeavors to save the passengers.
                    This sad occurrence put a damper on all the pilots and they all say: "I
                    am always ready to do my duty, but I am going to look out for myself in case of
                    fire." This  device soon went into
                    disuse soon to be replaced by another, a rawhide rope which worked nicely and
                    smooth, but this had its objections. It would burn, but the greatest trouble
                    with the rawhide was, it was eaten by rats and was continually breaking, thus
                    making it unsafe. Rats would gnaw it in many places which would cause it to
                    break whenever a great strain would be necessary. At last the great obstacle was
                    overcome by the wire rope which is in use at this writing and can never be
                    excelled for ease, comfort and safety and is impervious to fire. When I reflect
                    and bring back to memory the old "Water Witch," her looks, her
                    oddly constructed engines and boilers, her cabin without staterooms, the little
                    dark pilot house and small pilot wheel, I can't see for my life how we
                    got along so nicely with so few casualties. Look at the boats of today. It is
                    almost beyond the conception of man to realize. I don't think there is
                    a man now living who has learned the rivers since my advent on the river, could
                    be induced to tackle a boat so devoid of comfort or convenience as those boats
                    of primitive days. Still we who were boating at that early day thought them
                    fine. No bells to ring for stopping or starting the engines. Instead of bells
                    there were speaking tubes that led from the pilot house to the engine room and
                    the engine was handled by word of mouth. Notwithstanding all those rude
                    inconveniences there were very few serious disasters.
            I remained on this boat until the winter of 1842, when she was sold to a party of
                    Mexicans to navigate the Brazos river in 
                        Texas
                    . She left 
                        New Orleans
                    , proceeded up the 
                         Mississippi 
                     to the motuh of Red river, thence down Atchafalaya river to
                    Berwicks Bay, thence into Galveston Bay with the intention of following around
                    the coast to the mouth of the Brazos. She had not gotten far out into Galveston
                    Bay when there came a tremendous wind storm, tore her all to pieces and all on
                    board perished and were lost. Not one soul was left to tell the tale. When news
                    came of the terrible calamity I could not restrain the tears. I had become
                    attached to the boat; she was my home for two long years and was the first boat
                    I ever was on. There I learned my profession and I sincerely loved her. She gave
                    me the first dollar I ever had earned. I would be very ungrateful indeed not to
                    shed a silent tear at her demise. Thus ends the Water Witch, may she rest in
                    peace.
            Captain Wright then purchased the steamer "
                        Randolph
                    " and put the crew of the "Water Witch"
                    over on her, thus everything  was the same
                    with the exception of the boat which I will try to describe. She was a single
                    engine, side wheel boat. Her engine was a great improvement on the old
                    oscillating device used on a majority of boats in those days. She was 180 feet
                    long, very narrow hull within, six feet depth of hold, sharp keen model with
                    very heavy shear in the hull, and cabin to correspond. This made her look very
                    saucy indeed, low between decks, no ungainly looking bowsprit to disfigure her
                    appearance, her lines and nosing and circles on the wheel-houses painted a deep
                    green. This contrast made her a beauty. In those days this great shear in hull
                    and cabin made her look very saucy indeed. She had a full length cabin, very
                    heavy crown in the roof, no sky-lights, only two little boxes that resembled a
                    carpenter's tool-chest in size and shape, one of these placed over the
                    ladies' cabin and one over the gentlemen's cabin. There were
                    four rooms in the gentlemen's and six in the ladies'
                    department, with all the balance of the cabins open with curtains to hide the
                    bunks. She was a fast runner and very popular with the traveling community, in
                    fact she was considered the fastest boat then running on the southern rivers.
                    What she lacked in her carrying capacity was made up by her passenger list and
                    for money-making was a success. Talk about hot engineers. She always carried
                    them. Our fuel consisted of dry ash and the richest of pine knots, besides she
                    made steam very plentiful, consequently we were always prepared for a race with
                    any and all boats. This was my delight to get into a race with another boat that
                    claimed to be fast. It was very exciting to passengers and crew. It was my
                    delight to tackle a boat near our speed and the engineers and firemen were in
                    their glory whenever a race was pending. The pilots on each boat used all the
                    strategy in their power to take all legitimate advantage of each other. Many
                    times they would lock each other and run for miles in this position. Passengers
                    would often cross from one boat to the other when in this condition. While
                    locked, engineers on each boat would shut off steam in order to get a good head
                    of steam so that when the boats were disengaged they could put on all the steam
                    and thereby pass their competitor. The engineer would speak through the speaking
                    tube to the pilot and tell him when he had a full head of steam and when he had
                    all he thought the boilers could bear. He then would sing out to the pilot to
                    pull off from the other boat. Then the excitement was intense, even the lady
                    passengers took as much interest as the gentlemen.
            
            All the boats were single engine boats, the escapement loud and shrill. It
                    reminded me of two mad bulls bellowing and pawing up the earth to get at each
                    other when separated by a strong fence. The boats were mad to a dangerous
                    frenzy. They would shake and tremble under you. The steam at every escapement
                    looked a bluish color. I have very often stood by the side of the "
                        Randolph
                    's" boilers when shoving her and imagined I could
                    see them breathe like an old horse with heaves and still I don't
                    believe it was imagination, because the engineers then weighed the steam by the
                    weights attached to the safety valve lever, besides they would hang all the
                    scrap iron they could get to the safety valve lines after all of this was
                    attached thereto, then I have seen the engineer hang his own weight. With this
                    all on the safety valve it would then blow and simmer with this great pressure
                    and weight. No such devices were known then as steam or water gauges.
            Whenever I look back to those days of my boyhood and reflect, it appears as a
                    dream. It does not seem possible after looking at boats of today. It looks to me
                    as very reckless and exceedingly dangerous, nevertheless there were very few
                    serious accidents, such as blowing up or explosions. It makes me shudder when I
                    call those times to mind. Think of the great risks we underwent of being blown
                    into eternity at any moment. Thus I contend that "ignorance is bliss
                    and it's folly to be wise" and I think many of my readers will
                    coincide with me on that subject. Steam engineering at that time was in its
                    infancy you may say and a man's pride and reputation and popularity was
                    to be known as a hot and fast engineer. Men with reputation of this kind were
                    sought and always had a position. To be a good mechanic and blacksmith was
                    another great feature in the makeup of a hot engineer. With all those
                    qualifications he was a stunner. I don't think they ever took into
                    consideration the tensile strength of the iron to know the pressure to the
                    square inch or anything of that kind. The only thing was to make the boat go and
                    to avoid breaking the machinery, very little concerned about blowing up and
                    hurling all to Kingdom come. All on board notwithstanding, with red hot steam
                    and illy provised machinery for supplying water for the boilers, I
                    can't see how and why no more serious accidents were averted unless
                    those manufacturers of boiler-iron were more careful and honest than at this
                    writing. The iron in those days was made of pure charcoal iron and all sheets
                    made for boilers were thoroughly and honestly examined  before they were thrown on the market, so there
                    were no flaws in those sheets. Those were days when hot engineers and close fit
                    pilots were sought by all commanders of boats. What I mean by hot engineers is a
                    man who was ready and willing to get all the steam that could be made by the
                    boilers on his boat and get all the speed that was in the boat, and a close
                    pilot would take all advantage of slack water and near cuts to save distance and
                    time. Those were the men sought. A man was known on his merits and that should
                    be the recommend now. There was no such thing as pilot's or
                    engineer's license. In those good steamboat times a man stood upon his
                    merits.
            The license system was the death knell to pilots and engineers on the rivers and
                    is an outrage on a free people. I can say without a doubt there are hundreds
                    more licensed men employed as pilots and engineers than there are pilots and
                    engineers in existence. As an old saying and quite true: "Kissing goes
                    by favor," this saying is quite applicable to this damnable licensed
                    system. I know many men who carry licenses to this day to pilot on several
                    different rivers that never have seen some of those rivers included in their
                    license. Thus I say it is an imposition on those who have a reputation and have
                    devoted their whole life to master the profession of pilot or engineer.
            Your humble servant was one among the first to get license as a pilot. That cost
                    me one dollar and ten cents. The price gradually increased until we paid ten
                    dollars for the same piece of paper. I can't say what caused this
                    terrible advance in license unless it was the scarcity, like diamonds, the
                    scarcer the higher the price. At one period it was an honor to hold a
                    first-class license as pilot or engineer, but today licenses are sold like eggs,
                    they cost 183/4c per dozen, so I have
                    concluded the scarcity of an article governs the price. A license is no proof of
                    merit of the person who holds a license. Look at our school teachers who hold
                    county or State licenses. How many teachers thus endowed with that cherished
                    piece of paper are competent to fill that responsible position as a teacher.
                    When you sift them to the bottom you will find them few and far between and
                    exceedingly scarce. So with nearly all licensed positions, plenty license and
                    little merit and competency with many whose boast and pride is to say:
                    "Oh, I've got my license" and draw them on you and
                    regard them as something phenomenal. Thus I 
                    consider the license system in many instances a fraud and imposition.
            Civil service is another innovation on the! rights of a free people and should be
                    knocked into smithereens at once. I will not take the time or space to show the
                    iniquity of this damnable civil service law. It is too preposterous to mention.
            In speaking of this great sheer in the "
                        Randolph
                    's hull," to show how great it was, a tall man,
                    say six feet, could stand on the forecastle, in front of her bitts and look back
                    in the cabin and see the feet of the lady passengers walking in the
                    ladies' cabin. This will give you an idea how great the sheer was.
                    Nevertheless with this great sheer she was considered a beauty and exceedingly
                    popular with the traveling community and all the crew were very proud of her.
                    The pumps or devices for supplying the boilers with water were attached to the
                    piston, consequently at every revolution of the engine the pump would inject
                    water into the boilers. But at times the engine could not make revolutions
                    enough to supply water sufficient, especially when under a big head of steam,
                    for then there was great danger of explosion. Then the engineer would inform the
                    pilot through the speaking trumpet to land as quickly as possible as water was
                    getting low. Many is the time I have landed for no other purpose than to pump up
                    boilers, thus losing considerable time with great expense. As soon as we got to
                    shore and made fast to a tree, the wheels of the boat were unshipped, or thrown
                    out of gear and the engine started at a rapid rate. The fires cooled down under
                    the boilers. Thus the pumps would begin to throw water into the boilers and in
                    the course of an hour we could start on our way rejoicing. This was a heavy
                    expense, besides loss of time and a great danger of explosions. Then the mode of
                    packing in the cylinders, rope was used entirely and was very hard to keep from
                    wasting steam. I merely call those modes of steam machinery to the reader to
                    show the disadvantages that steamboat men underwent in those days compared with
                    the many inventions in vogue in this the nineteenth century. When I look back
                    and reflect I can scarcely believe that which I have experienced and know to be
                    true. The poorly devised method of supplying the boilers with water when running
                    with a tremendous pressure of steam with no steam gauge and water gauge to
                    indicate water or steam, must depend on the competency and care of the engineer
                    on guard. It makes me shudder when I look back to the primitive days of
                    steamboating.  The many dangers I have been
                    in, we could always feel safe when we knew there was a bountiful supply of water
                    in the boilers. But those pumps were not very reliable at all times, especially
                    when there was a heavy pressure of steam. Still with all those disadvantages
                    there were very few serious disasters.
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of the Civil War: Andersonville
            BY DAVID S. WHITENACK, Greenwood, Ind.
            On the 28th day of December, 1863, I enlisted in Company F, Fifth Indiana
                    Cavalry, and on the 31st day of December was mustered into the service of the 
                        United States
                     at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind. This was the day preceding the "Cold New
                    Year" which is so well known by all the older citizens of the State, as
                    it was the coldest day on record for the State; neither has there been another
                    so severe since that date. Some four or five of us from Greenwood, Ind., were
                    caught by the storm in the city and were compelled to walk home. We waited in
                    the station at 
                        Indianapolis
                     until ten o'clock at night for a train to take us home.
                    The agent informed us then that no train would go out that night, as all trains
                    were snowbound and the engines frozen up. Some of us had families at home and
                    return we must for fear they would perish with cold before morning. So we
                    started to walk the twelve miles home. I took the lead of the little band, and
                    on we trudged through drifting snow and in the most terrific wind. If the wind
                    had not been against our backs we should have perished. When we reached home the
                    mercury had dropped to 28 degrees below zero. I found on arrival that the fire
                    was almost out and the house very cold. It was not long before I had a roaring
                    fire by which I thawed myself out. I thought it, however, a rough introduction
                    to a soldier's life.
            In about one week I was ordered to join my regiment at the front. It was at that
                    time stationed at 
                        Knoxville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    . I was sent by way of 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        Nashville
                    , and 
                        Chattanooga
                    . When we arrived at the latter place we found that the railroad
                    running to 
                        Knoxville
                     had been torn up as far as Louden, Tenn. After remaining at 
                        Chattanooga
                     for about one week we were ordered to proceed on foot to Louden
                    about eighty miles. By the time we reached there our rations were all consumed
                    and to make it worse they had nothing for us there but one hardtack each. The
                    next day we were taken by freight train to 
                        Knoxville
                    . When we arrived there we found that the regiment had moved to Mt.
                    Sterling, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
            We were taken acoss the river south of the city into the woods where we had to
                    remain for two weeks without shelter, and our fare reduced to quarter rations.
            When the railway had been put in repair we were started again for our regiment by
                    the way of Louden, 
                        Chattanooga
                    , 
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Winchester
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . From there we traveled on foot to Mt. Sterling where we found our
                    regiment encamped in the woods where we remained until March, when we were
                    removed to 
                        Paris
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . From there to Nicholasville, then to Camp Nelson where we were
                    equipped with all necessary articles of warfare, including pack mules for our
                    trip over the mountains.
            We left Camp Nelson about the first day of May and arrived at Dalton, 
                        Georgia
                    , about ten days later. It was here that I first heard the music of
                    a rebel bullet, and it was here where we came up with Sherman's army.
                    On the 15th of May we fought a hard battle at Resaca, 
                        Georgia
                    , where we lost a number of men in killed, wounded and missing. Four
                    of our company were made prisoners of war.
            From Resaca to 
                        Atlanta
                     it was march and fight, march and fight until the enemy were
                    finally driven into 
                        Atlanta
                    , where they made a stubborn resistance and were only driven out
                    after a long siege. A few days before reaching 
                        Atlanta
                    , Captain Loomis of Company F secured quarters at a farm house for
                    himself and company clerk, in which capacity I had been serving from the time I
                    had joined the regiment. His object was to have me make out his quartermaster
                    and ordinance reports.
            We had not been here but a few days until his regimental headquarters were moved
                    about a mile north of where they had been. The colonel notified Captain Loomis
                    of the change, but he disliked very much to give up his comfortable quarters and
                    decided to stay where he was, although there was considerable danger of getting
                    picked up by the enemy's scouts. The second night after the removal of
                    the regiment proved to be a very hot one in more than one respect. Captain
                    Loomis concluded that he would sleep out on the porch. So after taking off his
                    hat, coat and shoes, he lay down with a revolver placed on each side of him.
                    About midnight the dogs about the house set up a terrific barking, which awoke
                    both the captain and myself. Captain Loomis sprang to his feet and saw six or
                    eight soldiers coming toward the house. He ran for his life as he supposed, but
                    only to lose it. They commanded him to halt as he  leaped fom the porch, but he gave no heed. On
                    looking out of the window I saw a soldier running after him and then saw a blaze
                    leap from his carbine and again he fired, but by this time the captain had
                    reached the thicket and disappeared. I concluded it was time for me to vacate
                    the house, so leaping out of the window, I found concealment near by. I soon saw
                    the men enter the house and heard them ask the lady of the house who the party
                    was that ran from the porch. They told them it was Captain Loomis of the Fifth
                    Indiana Cavalry. Then I heard one of them say, "My God, boys, I believe
                    "that I shot him," After their departure the lady of the house
                    told me they belonged to the Sixth Indiana Cavalry, and that they had come
                    expecting to find her husband there. I proceeded to the woods and hunted for two
                    or three hours for the captain but getting no response returned. The next
                    morning I sent our hostler to headquarters. He soon returned and reported
                    Captain Loomis mortally wounded. He died at three o'clock that
                    afternoon.
            On the 22d day of July, General Sherman ordered General Stoneman to make a flank
                    movement on the enemy's right while McCook was to do a similar service
                    on the enemy's left. After Stoneman had selected 5,000 men who had
                    extra good horses, we started on our perilous undertaking. The lot fell to
                    Brother George and myself to accompany this expedition. Our objective points
                    were 
                        Macon
                     first and then on to Andersonville. We gained both of these places
                    but the latter in a very different role from what we intended. We reached 
                        Macon
                     without any very great difficulties except hard marching both day
                    and night. We accomplished our mission of tearing up the railroads and in
                    burning trains and bridges. Our sport did not last long, for as soon as the
                    enemy could recover from their surprise they rained down upon us grape and
                    canister.
            As was frequently the case this fight took place on Sunday, and it is quite a
                    contrast to attending church or Sunday school. Our battle lasted from early in
                    the morning until four in the afternoon, when General Stoneman surrendered four
                    thousand and forty of his command to the rebel general who had fifteen thousand
                    cavalrymen confronting us. The remainder of Stoneman's command had
                    succeeded in escaping through the enemy's lines while we were making
                    the enemy believe we were all engaged in the fight. It was a good thing for
                    those who escaped, but hard for those who were kept back. It was a hard thing to
                    do, reverse our guns and turn
            The next move was to take from us everything of value and comfort we possessed.
                    After this we were taken on the road to 
                        Macon
                    , a distance of four or five miles when we encamped for the night.
                    We had nothing to eat, so the guards were ordered to take two prisoners each to
                    a cornfield where we could secure some corn as an only diet for supper. Quite a
                    number effected their escape while this order was being carried out. One would
                    suddenly make a dash for liberty and the guard could not leave the other
                    prisoner to pursue the fugitive.  them over
                    to the enemies of the Stars and Stripes. This was only the beginning of our
                    hardships.
            The next day we were taken into 
                        Macon
                     and put on board a freight train for Andersonville, which is a
                    small town sixty miles southwest of 
                        Macon
                    . Here we were taken in charge by the inhuman General Wirtz. After
                    we were taken from the train we were ordered to form in line. We were confronted
                    by a company of rebel soldiers who were commanded to load their guns. In the
                    meantime Wirtz was heaping abuse upon us, and vowing that he would have us shot
                    down as murderers, thieves and robbers. When the company had finished loading
                    their guns, they were ordered to make ready, take aim, but instead of the order
                    to fire, we heard the command "recover arms." I suppose it
                    afforded him a great deal of pleasure in trying to make us believe that we were
                    to be shot down.
            After this ordeal we were taken within the gates of Andersonville prison. Oh, how
                    our hearts sank within us! What a sight to behold! Thirty-two thousand prisoners
                    ragged and starved, without shelter and seemingly without hope. The prison
                    consisted of twenty-five acres of ground inclosed by a high wall made of pine
                    logs flattened on two sides and placed in an upright position in a trench three
                    feet deep, forming a wall twelve feet high. Through the prison a sluggish stream
                    wound its way, on either side of which was mirey ground which took up at least
                    four acres of the space within. This necessitated the crowding of over fifteen
                    hundred prisoners to the acre. The first thing to be done was to make a survey
                    of the grounds to find some place where we could lie down and rest our weary
                    limbs. In passing through the prison we saw quite a number gasping for their
                    last breath and others so weak they could not walk without assistance.
                    Starvation was apparent in almost every face. Some were so desperate that it was
                    found absolutely necessary to organize the best men in prison into a body  of police. Soon after this was done six of
                    the most desperate characters were arrested, tried, and condemned to death.
                    Accordingly, a scaffold was erected in the prison and the six criminals were
                    hung. This seemed to put a check to many of the crimes which had been committed.
                    Andrew Kramer, Joseph Harmon, Isaac Vories, brother George and myself formed a
                    mess and agreed to stand by each other until death, if need be. We slept
                    together, ate together, and watched over each other as best we could.
            To talk about dying in prison was not tolerated; but the bright side was
                    introduced, and sometimes received with a shake of the head. Two of our mess
                    were paroled while at Andersonville, while Kramer, brother George, and myself
                    remained. About the middle of September, 1864, there came an order to transfer
                    11,000 of us to Florence, 
                        South Carolina
                    . Our hearts were filled with hope by reason of this order, for we
                    well knew that they would not remove us from Andersonville only through fear of
                    Sherman's army When we got without the gates of the prison it seemed as
                    though we had entered another world, for the atmosphere was so different from
                    that within the stockade. We were taken to trains and loaded into freight cars
                    as long as one of us could be crowded in. Our destination we knew not. We passed
                    through 
                        Macon
                     on towards Savannah, 
                        Georgia
                    . Some distance out from 
                        Macon
                     our train came to a halt. Some one had discovered that the timbers,
                    in a bridge that we were to pass over, had been sawed almost in two by some
                    wretch whose object it was to kill as many prisoners as possible. In loading us
                    my brother and I were separated and put on different trains. This was very
                    discouraging as we needed each other's presence and help. I was taken
                    to Savannah and my brother to Augusta. We remained however, at these places only
                    a short time, and were taken to 
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        South Carolina
                    . Here we met again by chance, and were taken with a number of
                    others into the jail yard. Here we had an exciting experience with shells fired
                    into the city from forts held by the Union army. We could get but little sleep
                    as the shells would come screaming over our heads and lights somewhere in the
                    city and explode with fearful noise.
            We remained in 
                        Charleston
                     three or four days and were then taken to Florence, 
                        South Carolina
                    , where they were building a stockade very similar to the one at
                    Andersonville. About 11,000 of us were placed in an old field where we were to
                    remain until the stockade was completed. No provision had been made to feed so
                    large a  number and in consequence we were
                    without rations of any kind for three days. My brother and I talked the matter
                    over and I proposed to him that we should make an effort to escape, saying that
                    it could be no worse to be shot than to remain and starve.
            He told me he would make an attempt if I would. We told a few of our company what
                    he were going to do when night came on. So when the time arrived they went with
                    us to the north line of the prison where we found to our great satisfaction two
                    guards, who knew not how to walk their beats; instead of one or the other
                    following, they would meet face to face. I told my brother I would go first. So
                    I waited until they turned their beats when I slipped out and made for the tall
                    timber. My brother waited until they came and turned again when he too made his
                    escape.
            By previous arrangement we had agreed to imitate the whistle of the bobwhite, in
                    getting together at the edge of the woods. Owing to a great deal of noise in the
                    rebel camp I did not hear his whistle and in a very short time I heard him call,
                    "Oh, Dave!" I gave the whistle, but in a very short time I
                    heard him call "Oh, Dave!" I gave the whistle and we were soon
                    together then into the woods and through a big swamp, when we came to a corn
                    field where we each husked an ear of corn, then seated ourselves upon a big
                    stump and ravenously feasted ourselves. I thought the owner surely must have
                    planted sugar with the corn, so sweet was the taste.
            We had determined to travel in a northwest direction and if possible reach 
                        Knoxville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    . The town of Florence lay directly in our chosen line, so it was
                    necessary to make a circuitous route around the town, and in doing so we had to
                    cross the railroad running south to 
                        Charleston
                    . This we had to approach very cautiously owing to pickets that were
                    posted in every direction from the prison. This we did by crawling across the
                    track. When we had gotten to the middle of the road we discovered two pickets
                    south of us. We continued to crawl until we arrived at a fence enclosing a woods
                    pasture. We climbed a high fence and then just as we got down we discovered two
                    saddled horses tied to saplings. Our first impulse was to mount, but our second
                    thought forbade it, as we would have been sure of capture if we had taken to the
                    roads. We succeeded in our flank movement, and after a wearisome tramp through
                    the long night, we sought a mound in the middle of a big swamp and lay  down to rest our weary limbs. This was the
                    night of September 19, 1864.
            When we awoke in the morning the sun was shining in our faces. We arose and
                    proceeded to eat our breakfast, which consisted of some raw sweet potatoes, that
                    we had appropriated in the night. How our minds wandered back to former days,
                    when we had hot biscuits, butter, meat and coffee. We were becoming very weak
                    from want of proper food, but the hope of reaching the Union lines stimulated us
                    to press onward. The second night came and we started again on our journey of
                    300 miles. We were guided by the North Star, taking an angle of forty-five
                    degrees to the west. We could not reach the coast, which was much nearer, on
                    account of the immense swamps. Very soon after we started the stars became
                    clouded and it began to rain. With nothing to guide us we tramped on as best we
                    could, feeling our way through the swamps by the aid of sticks. We found it very
                    difficult to proceed on account of cypress roots, which had elbowed themselves
                    up in the swamps. Morning finally came and we again took refuge in another
                    swamp. We tried to sleep, but our minds were so excited by our undertaking and
                    with the thought of reaching home, that we talked more than we slept. More raw
                    potatoes for breakfast; dinner nothing, supper more corn.
            We were convinced by the third night that we should have to have something
                    besides raw corn and potatoes to sustain life. We had neither matches nor fire,
                    so we concluded to appeal to the colored people for something to eat. This we
                    had to do with great caution, for fear of being reported, or of being discovered
                    by the whites. This we would do by approaching a cabin, which we had selected as
                    the probable habitation of the colored man, and after listening to the
                    conversation within and satisfying ourselves that they were negroes, we would
                    knock upon the door to attract attention. Imagine their surprise when they
                    discovered that we were Union soldiers. They acted as though they suspected us
                    of being angels; but we were too poor and ragged to pass for them. However, we
                    were the recipients of some corn bread, which I imagined was better than any I
                    had ever eaten.
            We again resumed our journey, but we could make but slow progress, and were
                    compelled to wait for the stars to come out; then we would often find ourselves
                    going in the wrong direction. We then determined to take our chances on the
                    highway, for we  reasoned that we were
                    beyond all picket posts and scouting parties. After this we made better progress
                    but were compelled to wait until it was quite dark before a start was made, and
                    always letting towns take care of themselves.
            The fourth night we had our first experience with the upland rice. In making the
                    circuit of a town we crossed a field containing rice and came very near losing
                    what little rags we possessed. The blades seemed to be supplied with saw teeth,
                    for they pulled and tore our clothes until we were glad to leave the field. We
                    halted about midnight to take a little needed rest under a friendly tree that
                    stood in a field near the roadside. In a few minutes we were asleep, but soon
                    awoke again and opening our eyes we beheld a man stooping over and looking into
                    our faces. Who are you, he demanded, when he saw that we were awake. We told him
                    that we were "Yanks" when he said that he was glad to hear it,
                    but he was not more so than we to hear him say it; he proved to be a fellow
                    runaway, and after wishing each other good luck he departed.
            Friday night, September 23d, gave us more excitement. We were wearily plodding
                    along what had been a road, but had terminated in a narrow path. All of a sudden
                    we came to a house, and before we could retrace our steps we heard the familiar
                    yelp of the bloodhound. We quickened our pace on the back track, with the hounds
                    coming after us; we left the path and turned to the right through the woods. I
                    had gone but a short distance until I fell Into what I supposed was a shallow
                    well, but which proved to be a deep ditch. My brother got down into the ditch
                    and by the aid of some friendly roots we succeeded in pulling ourselves out of
                    it on the opposite side. On came the hounds, but when they come to the ditch
                    they seemed to lose their trail and consumed their time in going up and down the
                    ditch, while we made good use of their delay. Our scare being over, we went to a
                    negro's cabin where we obtained something to eat. The old colored woman
                    gave us a case knife, which proved to be of great value; with it we cut us each
                    a stout cane and being thus equipped we resolved that none should make us
                    prisoners again.
            More rain had fallen on us that night and we were wet to the skin. We needed a
                    good fire and on consultation we decided to go to a house that stood in an
                    isolated place, and secure something to eat, and to dry our clothes. It was now
                    daylight but we were so chilled and hungry that we became somewhat reckless in
                    our ventures. We approached the house from the rear yard. We had  scarcely cleared the back fence when we were
                    confronted by three hounds that came rushing at us with wide open mouths. Then
                    it was when our canes came into good play. George struck one of them over the
                    head and I another over the back, and sent them howling around the house, while
                    the courage of the third deserted him, so we had a clear field so far as dogs
                    were concerned, but when we looked at the house again we beheld three men
                    standing on the back porch; for an instant all our efforts seemed as naught, but
                    when we heard them scold the dogs and in a friendly tone invite us into the
                    house, our spirits revived.
            On entering the house we found a good fire, and were soon enjoying this welcome
                    heat. Something impelled me to survey the room, when I discovered three rifles
                    resting in their dogwood forks. The man of the house noticed that I seemed a
                    little uncomfortable and remarked that we need have no fear of being molested.
                    The two younger men proved to be deserters from the rebel army and were taking
                    refuge in this secluded home. They assured us that they had had enough of the
                    war, although their home was in 
                        South Carolina
                    , the hotbed of secession.
            After enjoying the fire for an hour and receiving refreshments we departed,
                    thanking them for their kindness. We soon found a swamp and concealed ourselves
                    until night. Saturday night, September 24, found us on the road again. We found
                    a few sour apples that night and had no scruples in appropriating a few of them
                    to our own use. Once in the night we stopped near the roadside to rest while we
                    ate an apple. Very soon we discovered a man standing in the road and looking
                    directly at us. Soon he came forward and demanded to know who we were. On being
                    informed he expressed pleasure. He told us that he and two others had been
                    following us for some time. The other two soon came up, which made a company of
                    five runaways. We were very hungry for some meat and decided to have it if
                    possible. We saw some geese in a barn yard but on approaching them they fled
                    under the barn. On looking around we discovered a calf in a woods pasture, with
                    its mother and some other cattle. We drove all of them as far from the house as
                    possible into a corner of the woodland, where we succeeded in catching the calf.
                    We carried it into a thicket about a quarter of a mile from its capture, where
                    we brought our knife into use again, and soon had the choice quarters ready to
                    carry away with us. We deemed it best to separate; so many of us together  might result in our arrest. I have often
                    wondered how the owner accounted for the absence of his calf. We had the
                    satisfaction of knowing that one South Carolinian, at least, had contributed the
                    price of a calf, to the Union cause.
            We searched in vain for a swamp, in which to conceal ourselves over Sunday.
                    However, we found a thicket near the road where we could hide ourselves. Late
                    Sunday afternoon we heard the voices of two men near the thicket. My curiosity
                    and the want of bread overcame me, and I determined to crawl to the edge of the
                    thicket and ascertain who they were. I soon arrived where I could both see and
                    hear them. They proved to be two young negroes who were talking of their
                    experiences in courtship. I raised up out of the thicket, and was fearful for a
                    time that their eyes would leave their sockets. We soon allayed their fears and
                    made known our wants. They advised us to retreat into the thicket and remain
                    until night when they would come again and take us to their home.
            They came with the darkness and conducted us to an old building where the father
                    of the young men met us. He told us he would take us to the house where he lived
                    as soon as the "chillen" were asleep; saying that the
                    "chillen's" tongues were too long, but when once
                    asleep no danger then of waking up. He sent his son to the
                    house and soon the mother appeared bringing with her some boiled green beans and
                    fat pork. I thought I had never tasted anything so good in all my life, although
                    at home I could not be induced to eat green beans with fat meat. It was not long
                    until the son returned and reported all asleep. We then went to the house where
                    we remained while the dusky mother prepared a lunch for us, that we might have
                    something to eat in the morning. We made slow progress on our journey of three
                    hundred miles, owing to brother George being afflicted with scurvey, contracted
                    in prison and which broke out over his ankles and feet. Again when morning
                    dawned we sought the friendly solitude of the swamp. Nothing disturbed us during
                    the day save an occasional report of a rifle fired by some hunter in quest of
                    squirrels. We kept very still and concealed ourselves as best we could. We were
                    fearful, however, that the hunter's dog would scent us and reveal our
                    hiding place, but the next report of the rifle told us that the hunter was
                    farther away.
            Monday night, September 26th. This date is well remembered on account of suddenly
                    coming to a small town hidden by a bend in the road. We left the road and were
                    soon beyond the town and  were
                    congratulating ourselves over the narrow escape when suddenly we came face to
                    face with a man going to the town. He said nothing and of course we remained
                    silent. It was too dark however, for him to recognize us as "Yankee
                    Soldiers."
            My brother could travel but a few miles this night, and I was fast losing
                    strength myself, owing to the rations of raw potatoes consumed on our way. About
                    three o'clock that morning we found some fire in a log near the road
                    side. I secured a large coal and putting it between two chips kept it alive
                    until daylight, searching the meanwhile for a potato field, but could find none.
                    At daylight we made a fire but had nothing to cook but three little apples. We
                    felt discouraged and were unable to travel another night without rest.
            When night came again we sought the cabin of the colored man. We approached a
                    house supposed to be occupied by a negro family, and listened to their
                    conversation and concluded that they were negroes. We called out the usual
                    "halloo," when to our surprise an old white man came to the
                    door, when upon opening it the light within shone upon us. He quickly recognized
                    us as "Yankees." We told him we wanted something to eat; but
                    he said he was too poor to give us anything, and besides there was nothing
                    cooked, and that they had a very sick child and could do nothing for us. We were
                    about to leave when he let loose a torrent of epithets against the
                    "Yankees." We said nothing in return, not wishing to anger him
                    against us. We had traveled about one-fourth of a mile, when we heard the hoofs
                    of a fast approaching horse behind us. We stepped to one side of the road and
                    watched for the horse and rider to uass. There were so many bushes on the
                    opposite side of the road, making such a dark background that we could not tell
                    whether the rider was white or black. We concluded it was some negro riding fast
                    for the fun of it.
            We soon found another house occupied by an old white man and his wife. We told
                    them we wanted to stay with them for several days and recruit ourselves. They
                    readily consented, and the lady of the house proceeded to get us some supper.
                    When it was ready they both went with us to the kitchen, which stood apart from
                    the dwelling, in Southern style. We were seated at the table which stood in one
                    corner of the room, I sitting where I had a good view of the door, which I kept
                    watching on account of the fast ridden horse. Presently when I looked up again I
                    saw a double barrel shotgun  poked into the
                    door, and leveled at our heads, and then came the order
                    "Surrender."
            I told the holder of the gun that we had nothing to surrender but our knives and
                    forks and that we had use for them. He told us to finish our suppers and that we
                    might consider ourselves prisoners. It was but a moment or two until about
                    twenty-five men filled the room. They proved to be a company of home-guards,
                    composed of old men, as all the young and middle-aged men were in the army. The
                    captain soon sent them all home but two to act as guards. Supper over, we were
                    taken back to the living room, where the good lady made us a bed on the floor.
                    We could not go to sleep, however, as they kept plying us with questions about
                    the Union army and the people of the North.
            One of the guards proved to be good with a violin. He called for a
                    "fiddle" and soon there was some lively music. This brought
                    out the old man of the house who danced to the music. Three tunes were played
                    and the fiddler refused to play any more without a treat. The old man said he
                    had nothing but hard cider which he brought out and filled the glasses. The next
                    thing we heard was, "Here, Yanks, get up and drink with us."
                    We knew that it would not do to refuse so we drank with them, but not to the
                    success of the Confederacy. The cider proved to be good for the scurvey, with
                    which we were afflicted. Every time the fiddler would play three tunes he would
                    call for the cider again, and as often we would be invited to drink with them.
            They kept this up until one o'clock, then all retired save the two
                    guards. I awoke about three o'clock and felt very thirsty. I got up and
                    found both guards sound asleep. Here was a chance to escape but I knew that
                    George could not travel far, so there was no use to undertake it. I had to shake
                    the guard, by the door, to get him awake. When out in the yard he begged me not
                    to tell the captain that he was asleep which was wholly unnecessary as I had no
                    thought of doing so. In the morning the captain took us home with him, taking
                    one of the guards, who was a near neighbor to him. We took breakfast with the
                    captain and his family. After breakfast the captain and his guard saddled their
                    horses and we started for 
                        Lancaster
                     Courthouse, where we arrived about noon.
            We were first taken into the courtyard, and while waiting there we were
                    approached by an elderly man who inquired where we lived. We told him we were
                    from Indiana. He then turned to the  captain
                    and requested him not to move us until he returned. I watched him as he went
                    away until he entered a large mansion about a square distant. Presently he
                    returned with a platter filled with good things to eat. He then informed us that
                    he too was from Indiana, having once lived in 
                        Bloomington
                    . We were taken then within the jail. Upon pledging our word to the
                    captain that we would not try to escape we were granted the privilege of the
                    jail yard. The captain informed the citizens of the town that he had two
                    "Yankee" prisoners at the jail and that they would have to
                    feed us. Their curiosity to see the "Yankee" soldier led them
                    to the jail in large numbers. Many of them brought us something to eat. One lady
                    by the name of Mathes gave us a blanket and a small testament, which I have to
                    the present day.
            After being kept at the jail for three or four days, the captain returned and
                    told us that he was ordered to take us to 
                        Columbia
                    . He also told us that the old man, with the sick child, had ridden
                    in great haste to his house and informed him of our presence in the
                    neighborhood. He said that he was bound to act as the State was under martial
                    law, and that if he had his way he would let us go. We were told that we would
                    have to walk to Rock Hill Station on the 
                        Columbia
                     railroad, a distance of forty miles. George told him that he could
                    not stand the walk. The captain promised to do the best he could for us.
            So we started, the captain and one guard riding behind us. We had gone about two
                    miles when brother George told the captain he could walk no further. The captain
                    then dismounted and told him to get on his horse. I was waiting for an order to
                    mount the other horse but it did not come. After going a mile or two the captain
                    began to get weary. He then went to a farm house and told the old farmer to
                    hitch to his spring wagon and haul us to the railroad. He demurred, saying he
                    was too busy, grinding cane, to haul "Yankees" to the train.
                    The captain made him do it, however, so we got to ride the remainder of the way.
                    We arrived at Rock Hill about dark and were given a splendid chance to escape if
                    George could have walked. I could have gone but I would not desert a brother
                    after we had passed through so many hardships together. We were put on board the
                    train for 
                        Columbia
                    .
            When we arrived at Camden a number of ladies came on board with well-filled
                    baskets to feed some recruits on their way to the Rebel army. When one of them
                    noticed that we were Union soldiers,  she
                    most emphatically declared that no "Yankees" should eat
                    anything in her basket. The captain who sat behind us told her to hand him her
                    basket; she did so when the captain handed it over to us. I think she was the
                    maddest woman I ever saw, but the captain told her to take it easy, as we were
                    under his care and that he would see we had something to eat. We had had nothing
                    since morning and we did not have to be urged to help ourselves. We arrived at 
                        Columbia
                     about midnight and were taken to the jail, where there were about
                    thirty other runaways. We found three other soldiers at the door of the jail who
                    had come on the same train that we had. A sergeant was in waiting to take our
                    names and regiments. One of the soldiers was a Frenchman by the name of Devilbit
                    (Devilba). When he gave his name the sergeant told him to spell it; he did so,
                    when the sergeant swore that it spelled "Devil bit."
            We were kept in the jail at 
                        Columbia
                     about six weeks, where we had but little to eat, yet we had
                    shelter. At the end of this time we were taken back to Florence, the place of
                    our escape. The boys of our company were greatly surprised to see us back, as
                    they had pictured us at home, eating hot biscuits and drinking coffee. We
                    happened to get back just as the rations had been discontinued, to force the
                    prisoners to reveal the place of a tunnel that was being dug under the walls.
                    After three days some one let it be known; just about the time of completion.
                    The pint of raw meal was issued again, but nothing to make up the loss of three
                    days.
            Soon after our return to Florence, we learned of the capture of 
                        Atlanta
                    . It was the custom of the prison guards to cry the time of day
                    every half hour. One morning one of the guards cried out "half past eight, and all is well; 
                            Atlanta
                         is taken and gone to hell." Of course we were
                    greatly rejoiced, but did not dare to express it aloud. The death rate continued
                    to be fearful and our fight with "gray backs" was incessant.
                    Our conversation was about something good to eat and about the prospects of our
                    release.
            December came and then January, yet we were held within the stockade; but on the
                    14th of February we were ordered into line and were marched to the railway
                    station. Our hearts beat with hope, yet we knew not our destination. From
                    Florence we were taken to Wilmington, 
                        North Carolina
                    , where we made but a short stop; then to Goldsborough, where we
                    were kept for two or three days. Next move brought us to Raleigh, the capital of
                    the State. We then thought our destination was 
                        Salisbury
                    , another dreaded  prison, but
                    instead we were taken to Greensborough, where we remained for three or four
                    days. We were then started North again which revived our hopes. When we arrived
                    at 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , we were again unloaded and camped over night, where a number of
                    the prisoners died, as it was quite cold and we had no shelter to protect us.
                    The next morning found us on our way to 
                        Richmond
                    .
            We had often heard of "On to 
                        Richmond
                    ;" but we got there first. Some of us were taken to an old
                    tobacco house. I had not been there long, however, until I found it difficult to
                    breathe, on account of smoke from pine fires the prisoners had built on sheets
                    of iron that were found in the building. I had gone to the head of a stairway to
                    get a little fresh air, when soon a rebel officer ascended and demanded
                    "attention." He called for six clerks, and he had them in
                    about six seconds. I being one of the number, we were taken directly to Libby
                    Prison. We were then furnished with blank paroles and were told that the sooner
                    we filled them out the sooner we would get home. You can imagine how we worked;
                    all that day and all night, without anything to eat. When morning came we were
                    marched back to the place we had left. About ten o'clock an officer
                    appeared and commanded us to form in line. Soon we were on our way to a boat in
                    the James river. The boat moved down the river and we felt better for we knew
                    that our lines were only two miles away. Soon I discovered a Union officer
                    coming down the river bank, with a flag of truce, the boat began to
                    "round to" and then joy forever, we were once more with our
                    friends. Many of the men were too weak to climb the high bank; they did not have
                    to wait long, for comrades came running to assist them. Once up the bank the
                    sight of "Old Glory" met our eyes. Then came the shouting and
                    the crying for joy. The whole camp gave us a royal welcome; but what a contrast:
                    we were ragged and dirty and scarcely able to walk, while they were well clothed
                    and full of vigor. They wanted to give us something to eat, but the officer in
                    charge would not allow it; he said there was plenty for us at the boat.
            Here we were again given a certain allowance, which was a wise thing to do, for
                    if we had been permitted to eat all we wanted the result would have been fatal.
                    We were soon moving down the river bound for Fortress 
                        Monroe
                    . When we arrived there we found the bay so rough that we could
                    proceed no farther. The next next day we started out for 
                        Annapolis
                     where we arrived about dark. We were then taken to a Sanitary
                    Hospital. Here we had to  throw away all our
                    clothing and undergo a thorough scrubbing to which we did not object. New
                    clothing was given us and we felt like new creatures. The clothing we had thrown
                    away had been worn for fourteen months, and was a mess of rags, dirt, and
                    "gray backs." Then we were escorted to our rooms, where
                    everything seemed to be in perfect order. The beds were so white and clean that
                    it seemed a pity to disturb them. Then the presence of lady nurses to care for
                    us was enough of itself to make a sick man well.
            I remained at the hospital for one week and was then ordered to proceed on my way
                    home. The doctor told me that brother George would have to remain. But I was
                    determined to take him home if possible; so when it was near the time for the
                    boat to leave, I bundled him up, in the absence of the doctor and nurse, and
                    with great difficulty got him down to the landing and on the boat without being
                    discovered by the officers at the hospital. The boat proceeded on her trip to 
                        Baltimore
                    . Here we took the train for Pittsburg, where we changed cars for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . We arrived at 
                        Indianapolis
                     about three p. m. the next day. The trip was a trying one for me,
                    as I had to play the part of nurse all the way, as brother George was too weak
                    even to sit alone. By the help of a kind friend I succeeded in getting him to
                    our father's house, near Greenwood, Indiana. Here I learned that my
                    wife and baby were at 
                        Kokomo
                    . It is hardly necessary to state that the next morning found me
                    aboard the train for the Indian city; for I had neither heard from them, nor
                    they from me for more than seven months.
            Of all the good things I had to eat there was nothing that tasted so well as
                    pickles unless it was more pickles. I remained at home for thirty days and then
                    had to report at 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Here I was informed that I had been exchanged, and would have to
                    report to my regiment, which was then at 
                        Pulaski
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    . I arrived at 
                        Louisville
                     on the 14th of April, 1865, and it was here that I heard of the
                    assassination of President Lincoln. I arrived at 
                        Pulaski
                     April 20, and remained there until June, when the regiment was
                    mustered out, all except those who had come in as recruits, who were transferred
                    to the Sixth Indiana Cavalry. I was appointed first sergeant in Company C and
                    served as such until July 1st when I received a commission as second lieutenant.
                    We had very little to do at this time, as the war was over, and the army of the
                    South had laid down their guns, and had gone again to the civil pursuits of
                    life. I was mustered out at Murfreesboro, 
                        Tennessee
                    , September 15, 1865.
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of the Civil War: Andersonville
            
               BY HENRY DEVILLEZ, Leopold, Ind.
            I belonged to the Ninety-third Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, Company G. I
                    enlisted the 15th of August, 1862. I served in my regiment until the 10th of
                    June, 1864. I was then captured at Guntown, 
                         Mississippi 
                    , by General Forrest's Confederate cavalry. From there we
                    were taken to Mobile, 
                         Alabama 
                    , about three hundred of us. We stayed there in prison about three
                    days. From there we were taken up the 
                         Alabama 
                     river to 
                  Montgomery,
                             Alabama 
               . From 
                        Montgomery
                     we were taken by rail to Andersonville.
            We arrived at Andersonville about the 18th of June. We were put in the stockade
                    at that place, where we beheld misery on all sides. Sickness and death by
                    hundreds was the program every day. When we got there we thought our fellow
                    prisoners were friends but there were robbers and thieves among them who watched
                    every fresh convoy of prisoners to see what they had worth stealing. However, I
                    was lucky at being robbed by the first soldiers, those who captured me, and was
                    saved going through the ordeal.
            I began by hunting for soldiers from Indiana as soon as I got there, which was no
                    easy task, for the prison was so crowded that a man had hardly room to lie down.
                    I found several of the old soldiers who were captured before I was, that were
                    sick and dying.
            We began living on one meal a day and that a very poor one. On the Fourth of July
                    we received no rations at all; we were forty-eight hours without eating
                    anything. Being very stout and "hearty" at that time, I began
                    drinking as much water as possible to keep the sides of my stomach from sticking
                    together. No man has more chance to know what hunger is than a prisoner at
                    Andersonville had.
            We lived along as best we could until July before anything unusual happened
                    except as before mentioned sickness and death. I have mentioned above about
                    robbers and raiders and will give you two instances of their work. One man who
                    was brought to prison  had a watch in his
                    pocket. The raiders were watching that, and followed him in single file until he
                    got out in the mass of men. The leader said, "I see you have a
                    watch."
            "Yes, sir," he replied.
            Leader: "Let me see that; I want to see what time it is."
            And he took the watch and the man behind him said, "Let me see
                    that," and so it went until the watch was twenty yards from him and he
                    could not find it.
            Another instance: One poor prisoner was fortunate enough to have a blanket when
                    he got in prison. The raiders knew it and planned to get it from him. They
                    formed in line just as they had done the man with the watch. The leader took
                    hold of the corner of the blanket and jerked it from the sleeping man. He passed
                    it on to the next man in the rear and so on until it was gone. The victim awoke
                    but the leader knew nothing of the blanket. He said that people were making so
                    much noise that he could not sleep and so by his talk deceived the man so that
                    he did not know where to look for his blanket.
            These robberies went on without molestation until the prisoners formed or elected
                    a crew of police or regulators. These regulators were known by the club which
                    each one of them carried. When a man had anything stolen, such as a cup or
                    knife, or probably his day's rations, he complained to one of the
                    regulators. The regulator then arrested the robber and took him before the
                    chief. He was tried and if found guilty was given a number of lashes or gagged
                    for a certain length of time to compensate for his crime. I witnesed the hanging
                    (within the stockade, by prisoners) of six robbers and murderers who had killed
                    and robbed several poor prisoners who, they found, had money in their pockets.
                    The bones and bodies of men were found buried under the places where the robbers
                    had their sleeping quarters.
            Inside the stockade there was a line (made by driving stakes down and nailing
                    planks on top of them) known as the "dead line," which was
                    about eighteen feet from the sides of the stockade. No man was allowed to get
                    over this "dead line" or to reach over or under it or get any
                    part of his body beyond it. Now, there was a stream of water on one side just
                    beyond the dead line that could be reached from the inside of the "dead
                    line.' But, as I have told the regulations, no man was allowed to reach
                    a drink beyond the line.
            
            I have seen several men killed by the guards for trying to reach the stream over
                    the "dead line." I, myself, narrowly escaped death in that
                    way. I was reaching, for a drink, across the "dead line" and
                    heard somethig "click" above me. Looking up I saw the guard
                    with his gun pointed at me. I immediately jumped back into the crowd and the
                    guard raised his gun. Thus, you see, many of us suffered from thirst, and the
                    water we did get was not fit for a hog to drink.
            Thus we lived until 
                        Providence
                     came to our relief. Along toward the middle of August, 1864, a
                    spring of good, pure water broke out within the prison. From this time on we did
                    not suffer from bad water or lack of water. There was a constant stream of men
                    going towards the spring. At the spring one of the regulators was stationed to
                    see that each man got his cup filled and passed on out of the way of the others.
            Maggots and lice were the torments of the prisoners and I have seen men eaten up
                    by them. If a man was wounded or had a sore of any kind and it was not attended
                    to, the maggots would get into it from the filthy surroundings and kill the
                    victim.
            When Sherman captured 
                        Atlanta
                     he took many rebel prisoners. The rebels agreed to an exchange of
                    prisoners but Sherman wanted men that had served under him. Well, the officers
                    came to the prisoners and told them they wanted two thousand Sherman prisoners
                    Captain Wirz gave orders that every "flanker" should be shot.
                    My brother and I were "Flankers" that is, not Sherman men, but
                    we got in line and marched out with the other soldiers. We were marched to the
                    railroad not far from the prison, and shipped to 
                        Macon
                    , Ga. From there we went to the place of exchange near 
                        Atlanta
                    , Ga. We then formed a line and Union men rode along in front of the
                    line and called out names from a list of Sherman's lost men. I was
                    found to be a "Flanker," so was my brother, and nearly half of
                    the remainder of the two thousand. When the rebels saw this the exchange was
                    stopped.
            They then shipped us to 
                        Macon
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    , from 
                        Macon
                     to Savannah, from there to Camp Loden or Mallon. From Mallon we
                    were taken to Blackshear, 
                        Georgia
                    , from Blackshear to Thomasville, 
                        Georgia
                    , from Thomasville, 
                        Georgia
                    , we marched across the country to 
                        Albany
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    , from 
                        Albany
                     we were loaded on the train and were taken back to Andersonville.
            When we arrived at Andersonville we were counted off in detachments  of 270 and each detachment divided into three
                    companies of ninety. I was at the head of ninety and the man at my side James
                    Lang from 
                        Ohio
                     said, "Frenchy, it is getting very cold and we will need a
                    fire tonight. You try to get that piece of wood over there," pointing
                    to a small piece of wood.
            Captain Wirz was walking down the line with his back turned to me, but he turned
                    in time to see me out of line. He came back to me with a pistol in his hand. He
                    held it close to my head and said, "You
                    G—D—Yankee S— of a B—, if you
                    don't stand still, I'll blow your brains out. I had my dinner
                    and I can stand it, but you didn't have any." These words will
                    ring in my ears to my dying day.
            We were rushed into prison again to suffer from cold and hunger the remainder of
                    the winter. Words can not describe the suffering and misery I underwent and saw
                    others undergo that winter. We were kept here until the war was over and then
                    shipped to 
                        Jacksonville
                    , 
                        Florida
                    , where we were released.
            To tell all my experiences in this "Hell upon earth" would
                    require a whole volume, therefore, I have only touched upon prison life and I
                    leave it to the reader to judge whether or not what I have said is enough.
         
         
         
            County Seminaries in Indiana
            
               BY WALTER JACKSON WAKEFIELD, A. B., Superintendent of
                    Schools, Marco, Ind.
            This preliminary study was made entirely from the State documents. The writer
                    confined himself to the legal phase of his subject. Not enough material is now
                    available to warrant a study from the social or pedagogical side.—EDITOR.
            Congress reserved two entire townships from the public land of Indiana to be used
                    for the support of higher education.1,2 This gift (according
                    to Donaldson) inaugurated her system of reserving from the public land for
                    educational purposes.3 Further provision for education was
                    made by reserving a section of land in each township for the township schools.
                    Thus our higher and lower institutions of learning were in a measure provided
                    for, but the system of schools outlined by the framers of our State Constitution
                    contemplated "a general system of education ascending in a regular
                    gradation from township schools to a state university." To meet the
                    need of ascending education they proposed to establish a system of County
                        Seminaries.4 For the support of such a system they
                    provided that all money paid as an equivalent by persons who had conscientious
                    scruples against going to war, and all fines assessed for the breach of the
                    penal laws of the State should constitute a fund to be applied in the counties
                    where they were assessed, for the support of County Seminaries. This was the
                    only source of revenue that the Seminaries had, excepting donations, until in
                    the forties some of the County Seminaries, by special acts, received all
                    forfeited bonds in the county.5
            
            There can be no doubt but this fund was never adequate to the demand made upon
                    it. The framers may have thought that it would be sufficient or they may have
                    contemplated liberal donations, 
                  
                     1
                            U. S. Statutes, Ch. 35.
                  
                     2
                            U. S. Statutes, Ch. 57.
                  
                     3
                            Donaldson's Public Domain, 227.
                  
                     4 Constitution of 1816, Art. X, Sec. 3.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Tippecanoe county
                            , Laws of Indiana, 1847, p. 401; 
                                Madison
                             County, Laws of Indiana, 1846, p.
                        85.
               
                     which really was what happened. However,
                    the fund never in any county at any time exceeded a few hundred dollars. When we
                    considered that the trustees were authorized by law to erect a building,
                    preparatory to opening school, when the fund amounted to $400.00, we
                    can form an idea of how small the fund really was and had it not been for
                    liberal donations in almost every case, it is doubtful if ten counties in the
                    State could have opened Seminaries.6
            
            It was under this serious handicap of inadequate funds that our County Seminary
                    system, if it can be so dignified, was inaugurated and maintained through its
                    entire existence. The first General Assembly that met after the adoption of the
                    Constitution recognized the Seminary clause of the Constitution, but not until
                    the next General Assembly was there any real provision for the handling of the
                    Seminary fund.7
            
            Under this act of 1818, a trustee was to be appointed in each county by the
                    governor and each trustee was to be directly responsible to him. The trustee was
                    required to give a bond of $2,000.00' with two or more
                    sureties, payable to the governor for the Seminary.8
            
            The duties of the trustee were simple enough. He was required to receive all
                    funds due the Seminary for the uses of the Seminary. This duty, simple as it
                    seems, was often a very difficult task. First, the officers in charge of the
                    funds refused to pay over the money on the ground that only fines assessed after
                    the act of 1818 were due the Seminary. Then the officer in charge of the records
                    refused to allow them to be investigated. Such conditions called for further
                    legislation the next year. The legislature declared that all fines assessed
                    since the adoption of the Constitution were due the Seminary fund and any
                    officer failing to pay over such fines to the trustee, within sixty days, would
                    be liable to a penalty of double the amount in question.9
            
            The county officers were to keep a separate account of the Seminary funds so they
                    would be easily accessible. This question settled, the trustees found themselves
                    with money in their hands and the question now with them was what to do with it.
                    It is only natural to believe that in this number of trustees there would be all
                    sorts of men. There might be men who would loan the money at 
                  
                     6
                            Laws of Indiana, 1831, p. 489.
                  
                     7
                            Laws of Indiana, 1816, p. 155.
                  
                     8
                            Laws of Indiana, 1817-18, p. 355.
                  
                     9
                            Laws of Indiana, 1818, p. 369.
               
                     a low rate of interest merely to
                    accommodate some one, as it didn't cost the one loaning it anything.
                    Others might be so anxious to make the greatest possible return and thereby have
                    the rate too high. Others might violate their trust and use the money for their
                    own private gain.
            The original act made no provision as to what the trustees should do with the
                    money except to receive it for the use of the Seminary. As no county at that
                    time had sufficient capital to begin a Seminary, the money lay idle with six per
                    cent, going out each year to pay the trustee for holding it. The General
                    Assembly of the next year made it the duty of the trustees to loan the money for
                    a year at a time at six per cent.10
            
            Originally the trustees were required to submit an annual report to the Speaker
                    of the House. In 1822 this was changed and reports were to be made to the county
                    commissioners who must approve or disapprove, and then forward a copy to the
                        Speaker.11 This was a step in the shifting of the
                    responsibility from the State to the county authorities.
            Almost every General Assembly up to this time had passed some measure for the
                    relief of the situation, but it seems that much had not been accomplished. For,
                    in the session of 1823-4 we find the governor recommending the matter to the
                    earnest consideration of the legislators in these words: "It is
                    hazarding little to say that in many counties the Seminary funds have not the
                    best management," and he urges that some plan be adopted whereby the
                    funds could be more efficiently managed.12 Heeding this
                    recommendation the General Assembly enacted a rather elaborate law.13
            
            This law provided for the election of a board of trustees who were to form a body
                    corporate to manage the affairs of the Seminary. These were to be elected
                    annually, one from each township, and when the members qualified they were to
                    take over the business from the Seminary trustee appointed under the original
                    act, and that office was to be abolished for that county. It was further made
                    the duty of the prosecution to handle all cases for the Seminary and to cause
                    witnesses to come before the court to testify as to the condition of the
                    Seminary fund. The duties of all officers were 
                  
                     10
                            Laws of Indiana, 1818-19, p. 67.
                  
                     11
                            Laws of Indiana, 1821-22, p. 124.
                  
                     12
                            Bouse Journal, 1823-24, p. 146.
                  
                     13
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 1824, p. 116.
               
                     clearly enough outlined to allow a fair
                    measure of success, but it seems the officers were not willing to do their duty.
                    Further legislation the next year made clear enough that the act intended that
                    all officers concerned with fines for breach of penal laws were to be held
                    strictly to account, and it was further the duty of the prosecutor to lend the
                    full support of his office to aid the trustee in securing the funds.14
            
            The governor approved this bill and it is fair to assume that he considered a
                    board of several members, who would manage the funds, better than a single
                    trustee.
            Summing up the general legislation to this point, we have a so-called Enabling
                    Act of 1818, which authorized the governor to set in motion the machinery to
                    take care of the Seminary funds. This was amended in the assemblies of 1819,
                    1821. Then in 1824 all previous legislation gave way to a general act.
            This remained the basis of the organization of the Seminaries, with amendments in
                    1825 and 1827, until 1831, when another very elaborate general act was adopted.
                    Under this general act of 1824, which extended over a period of years eleven
                    counties incorporated: Two in 1821, two in 1826, four in 1827, one in 1828, two
                    in 1830.
            I think the most striking feature of these incorporating acts is their lack of
                    uniformity. Practically every case was an experiment, different schemes being
                    tried in every new school. Some of the differences were only of minor
                    importance, but they have a meaning.
            The number of trustees of the Seminaries of this group varies from three to
                    eleven with an average of five and one-half. Union county, the first county to
                    incorporate, adopted the plan of having one man elected from each township and
                    limited the term to one year. 
                        Knox county
                    , incorporated the same session, fixed the number of her trustees at
                    eleven, all to be appointed by the county board with no limitation as to term.
            The acts concerning Gibson and 
                        Orange
                     counties were practically the same. Each was to have five trustees
                    appointed by the court, serving only one year. The act for 
                        Orange
                     expressly provided that powers and privileges of that county shall
                    be the same as those for Gibson.
            The number of trustees was reduced to three in the next group and the method of
                    selection changed to an election for a definite period. Then in 1828 
                        Switzerland county
                     raised the number of 
                  
                     14
                            Laws of Indiana, 1825, p. 96.
               
                     trustees on the board again to five and in
                    1830 
                        Jefferson county
                     to nine, 
                        Franklin county
                     to eleven, the highest number yet recorded.
            In regard to the method of selecting the trustees, the first year we had a county
                    try each; one by election and the other by appointment. Then the next six
                    adopted the plan of appointment, but the last four of this group turned to the
                    method of election.
            The rule for filling vacancies was uniformly that of appointment, either by court
                    or board doing county business,- except in two cases where they were filled by
                    the remaining trustee. The term of the trustees where limited at all was
                    uniformly short, one year except in one case where it was three years.
            This matter of filling vacancies may seem relatively unimportant, but in reality
                    a great many trustees who actually served were selected in this way. There
                    seemed to be quite a reluctance toward serving on these boards. There may have
                    been several causes. First—insignificance of the office.
                    Second—the responsibility of filling an unpopular position without
                    pay, also the attitude toward education in general was not the same as it is
                    now, and hence patriotism could not be appealed to. Often men who were elected
                    would not qualify and vacancies had to be filled by appointment.
            In four of the eleven counties the trustees were required to give bond. In three
                    cases the bond was fixed at $1,000.00, and in the other at the
                    discretion of the court. Ast to other qualifications the first two required that
                    they be residents and the remaining ones fixed such qualifications as,
                    "free holders of county," "good and lawful men of
                    county," "discreet men," and "qualified
                    electors." Never after 1830 was any such qualifying phrase inserted and
                    only three others required a bond.
            The officers of the board were regularly the president, secretary and treasurer,
                    although in two instances at least this was not provided for and any member whom
                    the board should designate at any time should serve. The duties of the president
                    were the same as those of the president of any board. It was his duty to call
                    meetings of the board and preside. All orders on the treasury required his
                    signature as well as the attesting signature of the secretary.
            The duties of the secretary was to help record all proceedings of the board in
                    session. Also to make out the regular reports which the boards were required to
                    submit at stated times usually annually.
            The treasurer was the only officer required to furnish a bond.
            
            When the amount was fixed by the act it was usually $1,000, and in
                    three cases the amount was fixed by the court.
            The regular thing was to elect members of the board to serve as officers,
                    although 
                        Knox county
                     provided that the treasurer should not be a board member, and in 
                        Fayette county
                     the oldest trustee under general act was to serve.
            The duties of the board under the first acts were very simple, merely to handle
                    the Seminary funds. These boards, after members had qualified and organized,
                    formed a body corporate and politic capable of acting in their corporate
                    capacity in all matters arising out of the Seminary.
            In the first few incorporations the duties specified were general and not very
                    extensive. They were: 1. To handle the funds of the Seminary; 2. To make rules
                    and regulations for governing the students 3. To determine the rate of tuition,
                    and a sweeping clause including all additional powers necessary to carry the act
                    into effect.
            The collection of the money due the Seminary was the most serious problem which
                    confronted these early trustees. 
                        Every county
                     was provided by the constitution with a source of revenue. All
                    fines for the breach of penal laws and money paid to be exempt from militia
                    service went to the fund. It seems that there needed not be any question about
                    what belonged to the Seminary, but in reality it was a serious task to collect
                    it.
            There was not any trouble about the money coming from the State, only with the
                    local officials. At first there was no provision as to how the Seminary funds
                    should be kept so the practice was to put it all in the general fund without any
                    attempt to keep any separate account of it. When the trustees went to collect
                    the money as they were authorized to do, there was no record to enable them to
                    know what was due. Then the next thing to do was to have the court records run
                    to find out the amount of fines assessed. This was a task that the average
                    trustee was not competent to perform, hence in 1825 the sheriff was required to
                    account, at end of each term, for all fines assessed during the term. The aid of
                    the prosecutor was also called in. He was required to force officers to account
                    for fines and it was made a penalty for any one to refuse to allow their records
                    to be examined. The prosecutor was authorized to require any person to tell,
                    under oath, anything he might know about the Seminary fund.
            It does not seem that this money was appropriated to private  use in every instance, but the officers, like many
                    other people at that time, did not see the use of education and thought that the
                    money could be used to a better advantage some other way.
            The funds were never very large and probably the aid of the prosecutor would not
                    have equaled more than the cost of collection. The General Assembly always
                    favored the Seminary, though, and allowed suits concerning it to be brought by
                    the prosecutors, saving the expense to the Seminary. A novel plan was tried in 
                        Switzerland county
                    . The board was empowered to summon anyone before it and require
                    them to testify under oath as to the fund, and failure to answer summons was a
                    finable offense.
            In the matter of selecting sites for Seminaries, the trustees (or commissioners),
                    were given considerable latitude, usually being directed to keep in mind
                    population, health and donations in making the selection. Sometimes the town
                    where the site was to be was named in the act. The next general act which dealt
                    with the organization and control of the Seminaries was passed in 1831.15 In all counties not having Seminary boards the county
                    board was to appoint "a proper person" to be trustee of the
                    Seminary fund. He was required to take oath and give bond at double the amount
                    of the money handled. His duties only extended to the funds. He was not
                    authorized to take any steps toward securing a building or opening a Seminary,
                    but he was given strict injunction to collect all moneys due the Seminary from
                    officials and others as soon as due, and have it ready for use. He was not
                    authorized to loan it, but the object was to get enough of it together to
                    justify the construction of a building.
            When the fund reached $400.00 that could be done. Then the voters of
                    the county were to elect a trustee from each commissioner's district
                    who were to constitute a body corporate and politic to take over the affairs of
                    the Seminary. When the qualified board organized it took charge of the records
                    and funds of the Seminary and the old officer or trustee was automatically
                    abolished. These trustees were to give bond at $1,000.00 and served
                    for three years. They were authorized to erect a building preparatory to opening
                    a school as soon as the fund had reached $400.00, or more. They were
                    removable for cause by the circuit court. They were not allowed 
                  
                     15
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831, p. 459.
               
                     any compensation for their services, but an
                    amendment the next year allowed them three per cent, of the money they handled.
            Another amendment in 1832 authorized county boards to appoint trustees in case of
                    failure to elect. Also the same session it was provided that any person who
                    would pay one dollar to the Seminary fund should be exempt from militia service.
                    There were amendments made by almost every General Assembly until the whole
                    system was abolished.
            Notwithstanding all the care of legislature the funds continued to be badly
                        managed.16 In 1834 Governor Noble said: "In
                    some instances they are entirely squandered and lost. It is believed they are
                    more generally paid over to the trustees than formerly, but there seems to be
                    some strange fatality attending them." As a remedy he suggested the
                    "abolishment of the office of trustee in the various counties and put
                    its duties on the county treasurer under the direction of the county
                    board."
            He further suggested that in case they did not see fit to abolish the office,
                    they should make it obligatory on the trustee to report annually to the school
                    commissioners and in quoting from the report of the superintendent of public
                    instruction he said that in 1832, just twenty-four counties had reported, and in
                    the next year only twenty-two and in most of these the report was very
                    satisfactory.
            This recommendation of the governor shows up with a glaring clearness the lack of
                    organization of the Seminaries. There was no supervision by any competent
                    officer of the various counties or of the State. There was no provision for an
                    uniform course of study and not until 1832, did any of the incorporating acts
                    specify the subjects to be taught.17
            
            This lack of organization and supervision was a very serious defect when viewed
                    in the light of our present system, and no doubt it contributed largely to the
                    failure of the whole system. Laboring under this lack of organization and lack
                    of funds the remainder of the Seminaries (18) organized. There were three
                    organized in 1840 under a later act, but there was not sufficient difference to
                    justify a separate treatment.
            In this last group the number of trustees was materially increased. The average,
                    not counting four which had one from each 
                  
                     16
                            House Journal, 1834-5, p. 19.
                  
                     17
                            Laws of Indiana, 1832, p. 28; Languages, Sciences,
                            Fine Arts, ornamental branches, Literature and such other as the
                            trustees specify were the subjects provided for.
               
                     township, was ten. The smallest number
                    recorded was five in 
                        Lawrence county
                    . The three highest were fourteen in Perry, fifteen in 
                        Greene
                     and sixteen in 
                        Dearborn
                    .
            In two counties of this group the term of each trustee was limited to three years
                    and in one to "during good behavior," but in the others there
                    was no limitation. The regular method of selection of trustees was by elections,
                    the only exceptions being in 
                        Greene county
                     where all were appointed, and in 
                        Marion county
                     where half were selected by the private interests, as they saw fit.
            The regular method of filling vacancies was by appointment by the county boards.
                    In Crawford and three other counties vacancies were filled by the remaining
                    trustees.
            In this group there were no special qualifications for the trustees as there had
                    been at first and in only three instances were bonds required. The regular
                    procedure was to elect one of the trustees as treasurer, but in four they were
                    not to be members of the board and in 
                        Clay county
                     the old trustee was to serve. The bonds ranged from
                    $1,000 to $6,000 and in some instances at the discretion
                    of the court and in others at double the funds handled.
            There were really two classes of trustees.18 In every county
                    one was appointed as a custodian of the funds, and his duties were carefully
                    outlined by the bill of 1832.
            He was to receive all monies, papers, etc., from his predecessor and was given a
                    special means of collecting them by a motion in equity, whereupon the court
                    would, on investigation, order the amount to be paid. He was instructed to
                    collect all money loaned out, when it came due, and he was held responsible for
                    all money he loaned out.
            The other class of trustees was called district trustees. They were to be elected
                    one from each commissioner's district when the funds amounted to
                    $400.00, and when they were elected they superseded the old trustees.
                    These trustees were required to give a bond of $1,000 and formed a
                    "body politic and corporate with general powers and liabilities similar
                    to other corporations subject always to peculiar object of its organization and
                    legislation."
            This body was invested with the right, title and interest in all money and other
                    property of the Seminary and had authority to appoint its own officers. They had
                    the benefit of the same legal 
                  
                     18
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 1831, p. 489.
               
                     process for collection that the appointed
                    trustee had, by bill in equity.
            Their chief function was to erect a building and get things ready for the special
                    incorporation. They were given specific and detailed instruction as to how to
                    proceed. All building was to be by contract to the lowest bidder.
            Careful records were to be kept and reports made to the county board. If the
                    trustees so elected did not see fit to erect a building for the time being they
                    were to loan the money with same liabilities and under same conditions as the
                    appointed trustees whom they superseded. If any trustee was violating his duty
                    it was made the duty of the court to remove him from office.
            At any time the county could ask for special act of incorporation and this act
                    specified the number of trustees and their duties. The number named in special
                    acts varied from five to sixteen with an average of ten. Their duties were in a
                    measure similar to those of trustees serving by virtue of the general act, i.
                    e., they handled the funds, kept records, etc., but differently from the former
                    ones, they now had the responsibility of maintaining and controlling the school.
                    They were given general powers to select teachers and to decide who should
                    attend. They were given authority to pass rules and regulations for governing
                    the student body and faculty. They were to manage the course of study except in
                    a few instances where the General Assembly required or rather suggested certain
                    subjects and even then there were to be "such other subjects as the
                    trustees may deem wise." They were subject to no supervising authority,
                    but were free in all their actions except, of course, for the slight limitations
                    of the law.
            In general, the bill of 1843, was briefer and more to the point than the previous
                    bill of 1831. The important change was in requiring trustees to make abstracts
                    of accounts and expenditures, number and age of pupils, and expense of
                    instruction, and furnish copies to the county auditor and county superintendent
                    of schools. This was the first step toward supervision and was to be the last
                    for many years since they were all abolished in 1851.
            The new constitution provided that all the property of the Seminaries, personal
                    and real, should be sold and the money applied to the common school fund.
            The next General Assembly passed an act to carry this into effect. All property
                    was to be appraised and not sold for less than  two-thirds of the appraised value. All sales were
                    on easy terms so as to secure as advantageous disposal as possible.
            The later history of some of these buildings would be interesting. Some were
                    taken over and used as schools; some are still standing. One notable example is
                    the 
                        Mitchell
                     School in 
                        Lawrence county
                    .
            At 
                        Rome
                    , Indiana, the building used for the Seminary is now used for the
                    high school, though it was not a real Seminary building. The county seat was
                    moved from 
                        Rome
                     in 1849, and the courthouse building was used by the Seminary for a
                    short time.
            All through their existence the Seminaries came into competition with the private
                    schools. A graph of the two shows that only at one time were there more
                    Seminaries than private schools, and by 1850 there were twice as many private
                    schools. From 1830 the curve of private schools has a uniformly rapid rise while
                    the Seminary curve rises more slowly and after 1843 ceases altogether.
            The cause of the greatest success of the private schools is, I think, due to the
                    fact that they had more funds and were more efficiently managed. They were
                    organized with a certain capital stock and the shares were sold. Any one holding
                    shares was entitled to precedence in sending pupils. Often men bought shares as
                    an investment. Therefore the money was at hand, an advantage the Seminaries did
                    not have.
            Though the great cause of the failures of the county Seminaries was the lack of
                    funds; however there were other serious defects to the system. The utter lack of
                    supervision, except in one instance where a visiting board with advisory powers
                    certainly contributed to the failure. Probably they were not sufficiently
                    accessible, but in any case the great lack of funds was sufficient cause for
                    failure without discussing other probable contributory causes.
            In some instances the Seminaries united with the private schools. 
                        Marion county
                     organized, and, realizing that Seminary funds would not be
                    sufficient, by fixing a certain capital stock sold shares giving the private
                    owners equal representation on the board.19
                    
                        Kosciusko county
                     turned over her Seminary fund to the 
                        Leesburg
                     School Society, but the act was repealed the next year.20
                    
                        Laporte county
                     united with the LaPorte University21 and Cass
                    county with the Eel River Society.22 In the last two the
                    Seminary was the controlling 
                  
                     19
                            Laws of Indiana, 1835, p. 93.
                  
                     20
                            Laws of Indiana, 1840, p. 1112.
                  
                     21
                            Laws of Indiana, 1842, p. 161.
                  
                     22
                            Laws of Indiana, 1842, p. 154.
               
                     power and power was reserved to buy out the
                    private interest at any time. 
                        Brown county
                     united her fund with that of the 
                        Nashville
                     common school district.23 With the exception of 
                        Marion county
                     they were all invited in the last decade of their existence, when
                    no new Seminaries were being organized.
            After 1840 more attention was paid to the education of the girls. In some of the
                    seminaries provision was made that female departments were to be established as
                    soon as convenient, but only in 
                        Monroe county
                     was a female Seminary established.
            The private schools were more active. From 1839 to 1851 there were fifteen
                    private schools established for girls. The demand for education of girls showed
                    a further defect of the Seminaries.24
            
            
               
                  23
                        Laws of Indiana, 1842, p. 150.
               
                  24 The following lists of schools will give some idea
                        of the numbers and locations of the Seminaries. Many of these were also
                        called Academies and Colleges at one time or another in their
                    careers.
            
            
               LIST OF COUNTY SEMINAEIBS
               
                  County
                  Organized
               
               
                  1. Union
                  February 7, 1825
               
               
                  2. 
                                Knox
                            
                  
                  February 12, 1825
               
               
                  3. Gibson
                  January 21, 1826
               
               
                  4. 
                                Orange
                            
                  
                  January 26, 1826
               
               
                  5. Harrison
                  January 19, 1827
               
               
                  6. 
                                Washington
                            
                  
                  January 24, 1827
               
               
                  7. Clark
                  January 26, 1827
               
               
                  8. 
                                Fayette
                            
                  
                  January 27, 1827
               
               
                  9. 
                                Switzerland
                            
                  
                  January 19, 1828
               
               
                  10. Jefferson
                  January 11, 1830
               
               
                  11. 
                                Franklin
                            
                  
                  January 22, 1830
               
               
                  12. Lawrence
                  January 8, 1831
               
               
                  13. 
                                Shelby
                            
                  
                  January 29, 1831
               
               
                  14. 
                                Greene
                            
                  
                  January 24, 1832
               
               
                  15. 
                                Decatur
                            
                  
                  January 26, 1832
               
               
                  16. 
                                Monroe
                            
                  
                  January 29, 1833
               
               
                  17. Posey
                  February 1, 1833
               
               
                  18. Perry
                  January 30, 1834
               
               
                  19. 
                                Dearborn
                            
                  
                  January 22, 1835
               
               
                  20. Crawford
                  February 7, 1835
               
               
                  21. 
                                Marion
                            
                  
                  February 7, 1835
               
               
                  22. Rush
                  February 1, 1836
               
               
                  23. Parke
                  February 5, 1836
               
               
                  24. Carroll
                  January 27, 1837
               
               
                  25. 
                                Clay
                            
                  
                  February 2, 1837
               
               
                  26. Morgan
                  February 7, 1838
               
               
                  27. 
                                Bartholomew
                            
                  
                  February 11, 1839
               
               
                  28. 
                                Kosciusko
                            
                  
                  February 24, 1840
               
               
                  29. 
                                Daviess
                            
                  
                  February 10, 1841
               
               
                  30. Laporte
                  February 9, 1843
               
               
                  31. 
                                Brown
                            
                  
                  February 11, 1843
               
               
                  32. Cass
                  February 11, 1843
               
            
            
            
               FEMALE SCHOOLS OF SEMINARY GRADE
               
                  Date
                  Name
                  Location
               
               
                  Jan. 31, 1840
                  
                     
                                Rockville
                             Female Seminary
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 24, 1840
                  
                     
                                Crawfordsville
                             Female Seminary
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 23, 1843
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                             Female Seminary
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 15, 1844
                  St. Mary's Seminary
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 14, 1846
                  St. Marys of the Woods
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 18, 1847
                  Ft. Wayne Female College
                  Ft. Wayne
               
               
                  Feb. 12, 1848
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Female Society
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 14, 1848
                  Laporte Female Seminary
                  Laporte
               
               
                  Feb. 16, 1848
                  
                     
                                Princeton
                             Female Academy
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 15, 1849
                  
                     
                                Rushville
                             Female Seminary
                  
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 15, 1850
                  
                     
                                Princeton
                             Female Institute
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 17, 1850
                  Goodwin Female Institute
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 15, 1851
                  Laporte Female and Male Seminary
                  Laporte
               
               
                  Feb. 13, 1851
                  Indiana Female Seminary
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  OTHER SCHOOLS DOING SEMINARY GRADE OF WORK
               
               
                  Dec. 27, 1816
                  Corydon Seminary
                  Corydon
               
               
                  Dec. 31, 1818
                  Hoatford Seminary
                  
                     
                                Dearborn
                             Co.
               
               
                  Dec. 31, 1818
                  
                     
                                Princeton
                             Seminary
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 11, 1820
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Academy
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 8, 1821
                  New 
                                Albany
                             School
                  Floyd Co.
               
               
                  Jan. 9, 1823
                  
                     
                                Aurora
                             Seminary
                  
                            
                                Aurora
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 13, 1826
                  
                     
                                Cambridge
                             Academy
                  
                            
                                Cambridge
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 6, 1829
                  
                     
                                Hanover
                             Academy
                  
                            
                                Hanover
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 1, 1829
                  Rising Sun Seminary
                  Rising Sun
               
               
                  Jan. 3, 1829
                  Eugene Academy
                  Eugene
               
               
                  Jan. 4, 1830
                  
                     
                                Crawfordsville
                             Seminary
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 18, 1830
                  
                     
                                Greencastle
                             Seminary Society
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 30, 1830
                  
                     
                                Leavenworth
                             Seminary
                  
                            
                                Leavenworth
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 29, 1830
                  Rising Sun Seminary
                  Rising Sun
               
               
                  Jan. 27, 1832
                  
                     
                                Danville
                             School Society
                  
                            
                                Danville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 2, 1832
                  Greenwood Education Society
                  Greenwood
               
               
                  Feb. 2, 1832
                  Freedonia School Society
                  Freedonia,
               
               
                  Jan. 29, 1830
                  The Christian College of
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Feb. 2, 1833
                  Liberty School Society
                  Liberty
               
               
                  Feb. 2, 1833
                  Western Union Seminary
                  
               
               
                  Jan. 15, 1834
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             College (preparatory)
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 1, 1834
                  Indiana Teachers' Seminary
                  Jefferson Co.
               
               
                  Jan. 30, 1834
                  Indiana Baptist Education Society
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 16, 1830
                  
                     
                                Carlisle
                             School
                  
                            
                                Carlisle
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 26, 1835
                  
                     
                                Richmond
                             Education Society
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 6, 1835
                  Olive Branch Society
                  
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             Co.
               
               
                  Jan. 1, 1836
                  
                     
                                Vincennes
                             Academy
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 8, 1836
                  West Union Sclent. and Agricultural Society
                  
               
               
                  Jan. 17, 1837
                  Perrysville College Institution
                  Perrysville
               
               
                  Feb. 4, 1837
                  
                     
                                Laurel
                             Academy
                  
               
               
                  Jan. 30, 1837
                  
                     
                                St. Joseph
                             Manual Labor College Institute
                  
               
               
                  Feb. 1, 1838
                  Greenville Seminary, Floyd Co
                  Greenville
               
               
                  Feb. 17, 1838
                  Laporte University
                  Laporte
               
               
                  Jan. 22, 1840
                  New 
                                Washington
                             Seminary
                  New 
                                Washington
                            
                  
               
               
                  Feb. 7, 1840
                  Orleans Institute Orleans
                  Orleans
               
               
                  Feb. 13, 1840
                  
                     
                                Lagrange
                             Collegiate Institute
                  
               
               
                  Feb. 22, 1840
                  Adelphian Literary Society
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 24, 1840
                  Leesburgh School Society
                  Leesburgh
               
               
                  Jan. 4, 1841
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             University
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
            
            
            
               
                  Date
                  Name of School
                  Lacation
               
               
                  Jan. 9, 1841
                  St. Gabriels College
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 29, 1842
                  New 
                                Albany
                             Theological Seminary
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
               
               
                  Feb. 9, 1843
                  
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             Academy
                  
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             Co.
               
               
                  Feb. 9, 1843
                  Spring Creek Academy
                  Lawrence Co.
               
               
                  Jan. 5, 1844
                  Notre Dame du Lac
                  
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 8, 1845
                  Lawrenceburgh Seminary
                  
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                  1846
                  Anderson Collegiate Institute
                  Anderson
               
               
                  Jan. 26, 1847
                  Jefferson Industrial Institute
                  
               
               
                  Jan. 27, 1847
                  Perrysville Seminary
                  Perrysville
               
               
                  Jan. 29, 1848
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             Institute at
                  
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 12, 1848
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Female Society
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 15, 1850
                  
                     
                                Princeton
                             Female Institute
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jan. 19, 1850
                  Cloverdale Academy
                  Cloverdale
               
               
                  Jan. 19, 1850
                  
                     
                                Lagrange
                             Seminary
                  
                            
                                Lagrange
                            
                        
               
               
                  Feb. 5, 1851
                  Plainfleld Seminary
                  Plainfleld
               
            
            Concerning many of these schools we have almost no data. It Is believed several
                    of them were never organized. Any additional information concerning any one of
                    them will be very acceptable to us in our work of gathering up materials for the
                    history of education in Indiana.
         
         
         
            Judge John M. Johnson: An Appreciation of a Citizen⋆
            
            
               BY MRS. S. S. HARRELL, 
                        Brookville
                    , Ind.
            There are a number of characters connected with the early history of 
                        Brookville
                     that might serve as a foundation for many romances of the White
                    Water Valley. Some of them imbued with a sorrowful and pathetic interest, others
                    of a nature to appeal to the funny and ludicrous side of life. If we had only
                    preserved the fireside tales of our ancestors—tales of travels to,
                    and the making of homes in, this locality, it would indeed read like fiction and
                    nothing but their well-known characters for veracity would make some of them
                    credible.
            In the early courts of 
                        Franklin county
                     it meant something more than office comfort to be a
                    lawyer—something more than good moral character and a place to sit at
                    east waiting a case. It meant many weary miles of travel through dense forests
                    on foot or horseback to the various seats of justice.
            The circuit then extended from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        New Castle
                    —the latter then very new indeed. It was on one of these
                    visits to the Northern Court at 
                        New Castle
                     that the start was made for this "Appreciation of a
                    Pioneer Citizen."
            While attending this court General James Noble fell in with Chas. A. Test who had
                    but recently left 
                        Brookville
                     for a home in 
                        Rushville
                    , and James Rariden who had left the same place for 
                        Centerville
                    . On their homeward journey through unbroken forests they stopped
                    for the night at the cabin of a hunter from 
                        Kentucky
                     by the name of Johnston. It was said this man had been driven out
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     because of his encroachments upon other people's hunting
                    grounds. Be that as it may, in his journey westward he halted on our own Wolf
                    Creek, but found it too thickly settled and moved on after the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase had been made to where we now find him.
            
               
                  ⋆Read before 
                            Brookville
                         Historical Society March 2, 1915.
            
            
            During the evening these gentlemen became much interested in a flaxen haired
                    youth about 16 years old trying to read, by the firelight, a borrowed volume of
                        Goldsmith's 
                            Rome
                        
               .
            This to Gen. Noble's practical eye was a mark of great worth and after
                    some consultation with his friends he resolved to offer this lad a home and
                    opportunity. Always warm hearted and generous he acted at once.
            He wished to educate his own sons free from manual labor so he proposed to this
                    boy, John Milton Johnson, to go home with him and go to school, caring for
                    horses, chopping wood, and doing chores in general for his board and keep.
            The parents consented and in a very short time had their son fitted out in the
                    best homespun they could afford for his trip to the "town of Great
                    Men"—for 
                        Brookville
                     at that time was the emporium of talent and learning for Indiana.
                    Noble was known as a "general" and a
                    "senator" and the boy who could step from the
                    hunter's crude cabin into such a home as this was looked upon as quite
                    a hero.
            This lad was later known as Judge John Milton Johnston. He made a very rustic
                    appearance when he first entered the 
                        Brookville
                     school and in after years he took great delight in amusing his
                    friends by the recital of incidents connected with that period in his history.
                    His first school was in a private house (now occupied by Mrs. Celia Baker)
                    taught by Isaac John, brother of Robt. John. His next and last teacher was Rev.
                    Augustus Jocelyn. His preparatory education was completed in a little over one
                    year under these teachers— his college education was the school of
                    life under the guidance of his own ambition to become a useful man.
            At first there was a disposition on the part of some of the scholars to
                    ridicule—even in that early day—this linsey-woolsey
                    country chap whose bashfulness then was no less against him, than in after
                    years, as his bearing was always that of a modest, dignified gentleman not
                    surpassed by his aristocratic benefactors.
            Beneath his wild-wood country garb was a heart full of ambition and an earnest
                    desire to obtain knowledge. The spirit which prompted the boy to gather
                    shellbark in 
                        Henry county
                     to make a light that he might read, could not be driven from its
                    purpose by the jeers of a few boys who happened to be better dressed than he. He
                    kept true to his purpose and lived to find himself, in the town of his adoption,
                    far ahead of many of those whose youthful folly  made him the subject of jeers and jests if public
                    confidence and an enviable position are regarded as marks of honor.
            The Nobles removed to wider fields of action and usefulness but John Milton
                    Johnston remained in 
                        Brookville
                     for many years rearing a family of two sons and two daughters to
                    maturity, proving himself all along the way a practical man of affairs.
            After the year's schooling of which we have spoken young Johnston became
                    a student of law in the office of McKinney & Noble and devoted all his
                    time to study when not engaged as an all-round helper in the Noble household.
            His life work while in our midst I will sketch as briefly as possible. To me,
                    however, the chief interest has been the fact that in spite of ancestors and
                    servitude, that might be depressing, he arrived, not on a blazed trail leading
                    to a hunter's cabin in the woods, but on the great highway of success
                    and a home in our midst and a citizenship of which any community might well be
                    proud. Dr. Armstrong now occupies the house that was for many years the Johnston
                    home.
            In 1826 with some knowledge of the elementary principles of law he began to write
                    in the county clerk's office under the direction of Enoch McCarty, then
                    clerk of the court. This was the beginning of his independent career. His pay
                    supplied his wants while the improved facilities which the office afforded,
                    added constantly to his stock of legal knowledge. He continued with Mr. McCarty
                    to the close of his term, in the end doing most of the duties of the office.
            Robert John, brother of his first teacher, became clerk in 1831. This Robert John
                    was the grandfather of one of our hostesses tonight, Mrs. John Bishop.
            In 1829 Mr. Johnston had been examined and admitted to the bar by Judge
                    Eggleston. So after remaining with Mr. John until he got the run of the books
                    and papers in the office, he hung out his sign and began the practice of law in
                    earnest, and was the first to fill the new office of probate judge. He at once
                    began to untangle the old system of managing probate business and in a very
                    short time inaugurated and put into operation a way of doing the work which was
                    very satisfactory to the people of 
                        Franklin county
                    , and for which they were very grateful.
            He remained in the office just long enough to familiarize his friends with his
                    new title of judge, a title which clung to him through life. His successor,
                    Henry Berry, carried on the system  of
                    probate business which he introduced and which for many years was said to have
                    few equals and no superior in the State.
            In 1831 he was elected Prosecuting Attorney of the Circuit then including 
                        Madison
                    . In this election he received 340 more votes than James Conwell of 
                        Laurel
                     and more than double the vote given Sed Noble, the college bred son
                    of his benefactor. That this young man, but a few years removed from the
                    hunter's cabin in the woods of 
                        Henry county
                    , with little more than one year's schooling could defeat a
                    Noble with a college education the very best that the period afforded, with the
                    influence of money and parental popularity, is almost beyond belief. Such is the
                    reward of character first. Had young Noble practiced a little of the service
                    that came into the life of this boy who was paying as he went, his life might
                    not have been blighted so early by habits of intemperance.
            While yet prosecuting attorney in 1834 Johnston was elected to the State
                    legislature. In 1835 he was re-elected defeating Enoch McCarty, the man who gave
                    him his first remunerative job in the clerk's office. Both men were
                    Whigs at this time. Later in the political upheaval Johnston became a Democrat.
            After serving two terms in the legislature—then one year
                    each— he returned to 
                        Brookville
                     and resumed the practice of law, remaining out of the office about
                    eight years. In the meantime he was a candidate for clerk against Robert John,
                    who was a candidate for re-election. Mr. John was elected, Mr. Johnston meeting
                    his first and only defeat when asking the votes of the people. Mr. John had made
                    a good clerk and political lines were not yet drawn tightly enough to defeat
                    him. However, at the next election, in 1844, Mr. Johnston was chosen for the
                    office, assuming the duties Feb. 14, 1845, being elected for seven years. In
                    1851 he was re-elected under the old constitution for the same term. But the new
                    constitution in 1852 reduced the term of office from seven to four years,
                    therefore he lost three years of his second term. In 1855 he was again elected
                    for four years.
            He retired from the office Feb. 14, 1860, after fifteen years' service,
                    succeeded by Henry Berry, who had been his successor as probate judge. But one
                    man held the office of clerk of the court longer than Mr. Johnston, Enoch
                    McCarty, who filled the office for seventeen years. Robert John held it fourteen
                    years. In those day men were elected to office more because of personal fitness
                    and  merit. The time was approaching, but
                    had not yet arrived, when a candidate for office must depend wholly upon his
                    party's strength.
            When Mr. Johnston retired from the clerk's office after so many years
                    untiring devotion to his work, his faithful services were fully appreciated and
                    his honor and integrity as a citizen and county official proclaimed at the close
                    of the circuit court, Wednesday afternoon, February 22, 1860, at which time Col.
                    John W. Farquhar, George Holland, D. D. Jones, Judge Logan and others eloquently
                    and appropriately set forth his merits, all of which were embodied in a set of
                    resolutions which went upon the court records and also found a place in the
                    public press. He was always referred to as the model clerk.
            So much for the character of a man who was a part of 
                        Brookville
                     during the best years of his life and also during the most critical
                    periods of the town's history, that of recovering from the shock of the
                    removal of the land office and the immediate pushing on of many of our people
                    into the more level stretches of land north of us as farmers mostly. Those bent
                    upon official life followed the land office.
            Early in the sixties Mr. Johnston left 
                        Brookville
                    , finally settling in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he died many years ago.
         
         
         
            A History of Indiana: A Review
            Before the appearance of this sumptuous volume⋆ of four hundred and
                    ninety pages, the author had become favorably known as a careful and patient
                    investigator of Indiana History by his papers published in the Indiana
                    Historical Society publications, one entitled Internal Improvements
                        in Early Indiana, the other entitled State Banking in
                        Early Indiana. By this more ambitious historical venture he will become
                    more widely and favorably known.
            In his History of Indiana, Mr. Esarey unfolds a wonderful story
                    of which only a brief outline can be given in this review. The first five
                    chapters are devoted to the period preceding the organization of the Northwest
                    Territory, telling of the early Jesuit Missions, the French Settlements, the
                    English Conquest, Pontiac's War, the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     by General George Rogers Clark, the short period of 
                        Virginia
                     rule, and the Indian campaigns during the period of the American
                    Revolution. Chapter VI describes the government of the Northwest Territory;
                    chapters VII and VIII detail the history of the Indiana Territory from 1800 to
                    1816, including an account of Burr's Conspiracy, the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and frontier life. The remaining chapters from IX to XXI tell the
                    history of the State from 1816 to 1851. Chapter X relates to the State
                    government at Corydon from 1816 to 1825; chapter XI to the economic development
                    from 1825 to 1835; chapter XII to religion and education in early Indiana;
                    chapter XIII to politics from 1825 to 1840; chapter XIV to the removal of the
                    Indians from the State; chapter XV to the public lands in Indiana; chapter XVI
                    to systematic internal improvements; chapter XVII to the Second Bank of Indiana;
                    chapter XVIII to the pioneers and their social life; chapter XIX to the Mexican
                    War; chapter XX to the Constitutional Convention of 1850; chapter XXI to
                    politics from 1821 to 1850. Appended is a bibliography of twelve pages followed
                    by a fair index.
            The subject chosen by Mr. Esarey presents an inviting theme for the historian,
                    one full of romantic interest, of thrilling adventure, 
                  
                     ⋆
                     A History of Indiana From
                                its Exploration to 1850, by Logan Esarey. W. K. Stewart Co., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915.
               
                     of heroic achievements, of hard struggles
                    with nature and still harder with savage foes, and of marvelous developments.
            The period of Indiana history preceding the admission of the State has already
                    been pretty fully covered by noted Indiana historians such as John B. Dillon,
                    Jacob Piatt Dunn, William, H. English and William H. Smith. Mr. Dunn's
                    admirable history of this period has long been regarded, and probably will long
                    continue to be regarded, as a standard authority, especially that portion of his
                    volume which treats of the period between 1800 and 1816 and the struggle to
                    prevent the introduction of slavery. But Mr. Esarey has cultivated a field only
                    partially developed by prior historians. In the portion of his volume which
                    tells the story of the State from 1816 to 1851, his care and industry and his
                    merits as an historian are conspicuous. In his preparation of it he has rendered
                    a great service to the State and his work will be highly appreciated by all who
                    are interested in preserving its history.
            The early history of Indiana reaches back beyond that of the earliest known
                    Indian tribes which inhabited the region now included in its limits, finally
                    fading away in misty traditions of the Mound Builders, a region governed at
                    different periods by the French, by the English, by 
                        Virginia
                    , by the Old Confederation, and by the 
                        United States
                    . In very early times the bold La Salle had traversed it, and it had
                    been visited by some of the Jesuit missionaries. A few French traders had
                    penetrated into these wilds and the merry songs of the coureurs de
                        bois had been heard on the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries, but no white settlements had been established
                    until after the beginning of the eighteenth century.
            One of the routes traveled by the French from 
                        Canada
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     was from the west end of Lake 
                        Erie
                     up the Maumee, then by a short portage to the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                    , thence by the 
                        Wabash
                    , the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                         Mississippi 
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , and along this route forts had been erected, one at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , one at Ouiatenon near 
                        Lafayette
                    , and one at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Here had been fought many battles between the tribes composing the
                    great Miami Confederacy and their allies with the fierce Iroquois, and here the
                    Miamis had sought refuge from them and from the fiercer Sioux of the northwest.
                    Pontiac had marched his savage warriors through this region and it had often
                    been traversed by the Indians in their warlike expeditions. During this period
                    and prior to the organization of the Indiana Territory had occurred the capture
                    by  General George Rogers Clark, the
                    Hannibal of the West, as he is termed by Mr. Dunn, of 
                        Vincennes
                     on which was based the claim, later asserted by the 
                        United States
                     and recognized by Great Britain, to the Northwest Territory, a vast
                    area now including the States of 
                   Ohio ,
                             Indiana ,  Illinois
                        ,  Michigan 
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            All this had occurred before Indiana Territory was organized in 1800. From this
                    period the history of Indiana becomes still more fascinating. The area included
                    in what is now the State of Indiana was in the very heart of the old Northwest
                    Territory. In 1800 it was still a vast solitude waiting for the magical touch of
                    civilization to develop its marvelous resources. It was covered with dense
                    forests. In the valleys of White River and the 
                        Wabash
                     there was the greatest profusion known on the North American
                    continent of what scientists call high grade trees, oaks, poplars, sycamores,
                    walnuts, elms, maples and other monarchs of the forest, many of gigantic size.
                    The beautiful 
                        Ohio
                     washed the territory on the south and its northern extremity
                    touched Lake 
                        Michigan
                    ; through its limits flowed the 
                        Wabash
                    , White River, 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the Mississinewa and other beautiful streams; and in the northern
                    part were many lovely lakes. In the woods deer, turkeys and wild game of all
                    kinds abounded and the streams and lakes were full of fish. There were still
                    left a few buffaloes, remnants of vast herds that in still earlier times were
                    wont to come up from the south and feed on the Kankakee marshes. It was an ideal
                    home for the red men and it has been supposed that more of them congregated in
                    early times, in northern Indiana than in any other part of North America. But
                    the lands were as inviting to the white men as they were to the red men. The
                    soil was of marvelous fertility, and all kinds of fruits and vegetation
                    flourished in it as soon as the ax of the pioneer had let in the sunlight.
            To reach this region, far remote from the seats of civilization in the eastern
                    and southern parts of the country, it was necessary to travel by long and
                    dangerous routes, by water and by land, and through unbroken forests infested by
                    savage beasts and savage men. Those who left their old homes to venture into
                    this darkest America did so knowing that they would probably never return, and
                    probably would never again see the homes of their childhood and the faces of
                    their kinsmen left behind. But those who came were men and women of stout
                    hearts. We have often been told of their primitive homes, of their homespun
                    clothing, of their rude sports, of their 
                    quaint speech—a compound of old English, of Yankee dialect, of
                    Southern expression, but the caricatures that have been drawn, especially in
                    works of fiction, give us but an imperfect idea of the people themselves.
            Among those who came were men who represented the best stock in America, the old 
                        Puritan
                     stock of New 
                        England
                    , the Scotch-Irish stock of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Carolinas, those of the very best blood of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Many had fought, or their fathers had fought, under 
                        Washington
                     in the War of the Revolution, or under General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     in the Indian wars of the northwest. They were imbued with the
                    spirit of liberty and they had inherited profound respect for the principles of
                    constitutional government, handed down from their English and American
                    ancestors. Nearly all were poor. The necessities of their situation made them
                    dependent on one another and converted every community into a little democracy
                    and made the settlers hospitable. If their log cabins were of the rudest sort
                    the latch-string was always out. They had little education and but few books and
                    what they had were mostly treasured heirlooms brought with them and eagerly read
                    by those who thirsted for learning. There were few schools, but this is not to
                    be wondered at when we remember that the children who went to the few
                    schoolhouses were sometimes obliged to go for miles, crossing swollen streams
                    and traveling through trackless forests, still infested with bears, panthers,
                    wolves and wildcats. There were no colleges nor universities. Indeed the sites
                    of Indiana University and Purdue were long parts of the wilderness, not yet open
                    for settlement by white men, and occupied by the Indians. It need not surprise
                    us when we find in the chapter in Mr. Esarey's volume devoted to
                    Religion and Education only six pages about education. These were enough,
                    however, in which to tell what little there is to be told about education in
                    early Indiana. Nor need we be surprised to find that the word
                    "literature" is not mentioned either in the table of contents
                    or in the index of Mr. Esarey's volume. Men whose energies were of
                    necessity devoted mainly to hewing homes out of the wilderness, to providing
                    shelter and food for their families, and to repelling attacks of wild beasts and
                    treacherous foes, had little time in which to read books and less in which to
                    write them. But the early pioneers persevered. They cleared the forests and
                    drained the swamps and converted them into fruitful fields;  they made roads and bridges; they built towns and
                    started cities and before 1851 they had laid the founations of a great
                    commonwealth.
            Their work was difficult and subject to many setbacks. When the State was
                    organized in 1816 the Indian title had been extinguished in only the southern
                    third of the territory; all the rest was still claimed and occupied by the
                    Indians. In the central third of the State, afterwards known as the New
                    Purchase, the Indian title was not extinguished and the lands were not open for
                    settlement until about the year 1821. It was not until about 1835 that the
                    Indians were removed from the northern third of the State. Until the removal of
                    the Indians the white settlers lived in constant apprehension of their savage
                    neighbors and there were many bloody encounters between them, finally
                    culminating in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the last great battle between the white men and the Indians east
                    of the 
                         Mississippi 
                    .
            The State early began the making of internal improvements and in 1836 a gigantic
                    but wild and visionary scheme of such improvements was launched. It soon broke
                    down leaving the State greatly, almost, as it then seemed, hopelessly in debt.
                    Various, other States had engaged in similar schemes and of those which did so,
                    many shamefully repudiated their obligations, but it should be recorded to the
                    honor of Indiana that it paid every dollar of its own.
            The great financial panic of 1837 was severely felt in Indiana as elsewhere.
                    There was little money; business was paralyzed; everywhere there were visible
                    financial ruin and desolation and everywhere banks suspended payment. Again
                    Indiana preserved its financial honor. Mr. Henry V. Poor, author of Money and Its Laws, says of the State Bank of Indiana: "Owing
                    government, as one of the deposit banks, at the time something over
                    $1,000,000 it promptly paid the amount in coin. During the whole
                    trying period of the suspension, which in the west lasted several years, with a
                    capital of only about $2,500,000 it usually retained coin reserves
                    equaling $1,000,000. ⋆ ⋆ ⋆ It was
                    for a long time a bright spot in a vast desert of in competency and
                    ruin."
            Senator Turpie's tribute to the early pioneers of Indiana is as deserved
                    as it is beautiful.
            "In that primitive age there was an innate honest simplicity of manners,
                    as of thought and action. Fraud, wrong-doing and injustice were denounced as
                    they are at present; they were also discredited, dishonored, and branded with an
                    ostracism more severe  than that of 
                        Athens
                    . Wealth acquired by such means could not evade, and was unable to
                    conceal, the stigma that attached to the hidden things of dishonesty.
            "The moral atmosphere of the time was clear and bracing; it repelled
                    specious pretensions, resisted iniquity and steadily rejected the evil which
                    calls itself good. Moreover there never has been a people who wrought into the
                    spirit of their public enactments the virtues of their private character more
                    completely than the early settlers of Indiana. We have grown up in the shadow of
                    their achievements; these need not be forgotten in the splendor of our
                    own."
            Mr. Esarey's interesting volume closes with the year 1851. History must
                    have a suitable perspective and perhaps sufficient time has not yet elapsed in
                    which to continue the history of Indiana to a much later date than 1851. Yet
                    wonderful as was the progress of the State from 1816 to 1851, its progress since
                    1851 has been still more wonderful. Since then have been deveolped our great
                    railroad system, both steam and interurban, our manufacturing and mining
                    industries, our improvements in agriculture, our large cities, and not only
                    these but we have seen the rapid advance in education and literature, the growth
                    of our magnificent free-school system, of our splendid universities and
                    libraries, in fact our gratifying growth in all the elements that have made
                    Indiana what it is today. One of the most important periods in the history of
                    the State is that between 1860 and the close of the Civil War, during which
                    Oliver P. Morton, the great war Governor, was at the head of the State
                    government, when Indiana proved its loyalty to the Union by sending to the front
                    a larger proportion of her fighting population than was sent by any other State,
                    except one, and when her soldiers were conspicuous in every important battle
                    from Carricks Ford to Five Forks. All this remains to be told by future
                    historians.
            In subsequent editions of Mr. Esarey's book some additions should be
                    made to the bibliography, which should include Julian's Personal Recollections, Turpie's Sketches of My
                        Own Times. Woollen's Biographical Sketches of
                        Early Indiana, and perhaps others. Mention should also be made of the
                    English collection, by far the largest and most valuable in the state of
                    unpublished manuscripts. To the gathering of this collection the late William H.
                    English, long the honored President of the Indiana Historical Society, devoted
                    almost his entire time during the last ten years of his  life, traveling extensively over the country and
                    collecting at great expense photographic views of places and men, old records,
                    documents, letters, and materials of all kinds illustrating the history of
                    Indiana. Part of this material was used in the preparation of the Conquest of the Northwest but a large portion still remains
                    unpublished which should at some time and in some way be made available for
                    preserving the history of the State.
            In his preface, Mr. Esarey recounts some of the difficulties under which
                    historians have labored in writing a history of Indiana. Prominent among these
                    difficulties has been the apparent inexcusable apathy of the people of the State
                    and of the State Legislatures. Until recently little aid has been furnished the
                    historian by the State of Indiana. The manuscript of the Executive
                        Journal of Indiana Territory lay for nearly one hundred years securely
                    locked up in a glass case in the office of the Secretary of State and was
                    finally printed by the Indiana Historical Society. There was not even a
                    catalogue of the official publications of Indiana Territory and of the State
                    until one was published by the same society. Not a cent was appropriated for the
                    support of the society until recent years. Since then only a scanty allowance of
                    $300.00 per year has been made for the publication by the society of
                    historical documents. This is a humiliating confession, considering the liberal
                    appropriations made by other States to preserve their history, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , for example, has at State expense, printed all its old colonial
                    records and laws, its Revolutionary rolls, its vital statistics and everything
                    of value illustrating its history. Even poor little 
                         New Hampshire 
                     with scarcely enough soil on its' granite rocks to make a
                    respectable anthill, but which, if it does not produce great crops, produces
                    great men, has printed not only its old colonial, but its old town records. Even
                    the newer Western States like 
                   Kansas ,
                             Minnesota 
                    , 
                         Colorado 
                    , 
                        Nebraska
                     and 
                         Montana 
                     make large annual appropriations for the preservation of their
                    history.
            There are signs of a revival of interest in the study of Indiana history. In this
                    the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana University, the Indiana Magazine of
                    History and the teachers of Indiana have all aided and the Indiana Legislature
                    at its last session made a generous appropriation of $5,000. To this
                    good work Mr. Esarey's volume will prove to be a timely and valuable
                    contribution. Surely the history of Indiana is worth preserving.
            D. W. H.
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            
                    UNION BANNER HUNT
                
            The death of Mr. Hunt occurred May 3, at his home, 2138 North 
                        New Jersey
                     street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was 51 years old. Before coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a State officer his home was in 
                        Winchester
                    . Mr. Hunt first became known over the State as a leader of the
                    Knights of Pythias order. In 1898 he was nominated and elected Secretary of
                    State. After filling this office two terms he became private secretary to
                    Governor Hanly. When the Indiana Railroad Commission was created the Governor
                    made Mr. Hunt chairman. He was a genial politician, a fair speaker. Though of no
                    more than ordinary ability, he conducted his administrations successfully.
            
               ADOLPH H. SCHELLSCHMIDT
            
            In the death of Mr. Schellschmidt, May 3, 
                        Indianapolis
                     lost one of its greatest musicians. He was born in Prussia in 1830.
                    He came to America in 1854. In 1858 he helped organize the City Band and a short
                    time later the Maennerchor. He devoted his long life to music teaching. His
                    specialty was orchestral music. He was a leading member of the Atheneum
                    Orchestra, the Metropolitan Orchestra, the Philharmonic Society. He was a leader
                    and promoter of all musical enterprises.
            
                    SAMUEL ROSS LYONS
                
            Reverend S. R. Lyons died at the Long Hospital, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 3. He was a veteran of the Civil War, pastor of the Reid
                    Memorial United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Richmond
                    , trustee of Indiana University, and a member of the board of
                    managers of the Xenia Seminary, of which he was a graduate.
            
                    JOHN WALLACE
                
            Perhaps some reader of this MAGAZINE can furnish the
                    information asked for in the following letter:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dear Sir—My great grandfather, John Wallace, who
                                        came from 
                                             Scotland 
                                         to West 
                                            Virginia
                                        , 
                                            Greenbriar County
                                        , somewhere along in the sixth or  seventh decade of the
                                        seventeenth century, from there to this vicinity in 1779,
                                        and from here to Morgan or 
                                            Putnam County
                                        , Indiana, about the year 1835 and I presume
                                        died there about 1836 or 1837, and if I mistake not, is
                                        buried in the cemetery at Stilesville, or more probably in a
                                        neglected and disused burying place on the old Elijah
                                        Wallace place (his sons) about two miles west of
                                        Stilesville. He served in the Ninth 
                                            Virginia
                                         Regiment Revolutionary War for a period of more
                                        than two years. This last fact, is of course, a matter of
                                        interest to the people of Indiana as it testifies that the
                                        remains of some men at least, of that remarkable army find
                                        repose within her ample area.
                                
                        J. K. P. WALLACE, 
                                        Clinton
                                    , Tenn.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               GENERAL GEORGE G. "WAGNER
            
            The following letter from Professor Gist has been received. If some one can
                    supply the information requested he would do a great favor to Professor Gist and
                    at the same time assist to clear up a disputed point in our State history: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    I am writing you at a venture because I think you may be able
                                        to give me some information on an historical matter in which
                                        I am deeply interested. If I am not mistaken, General George
                                        G. Wagner entered the service in the Civil War as colonel of
                                        the Fifteenth Indiana or some other regiment of that state.
                                        Later he commanded in the Fourth Corps the old division that
                                        had been commanded by General Sheridan at Missionary Ridge.
                                        In the battle of 
                                            Franklin
                                         on November 30th, 1864, his division was left
                                        in a very dangerous place and he was so severely criticised
                                        that he left the service. My regiment, the 26th 
                                            Ohio
                                        , was in that division, and I feel that I know
                                        as much about the situation as any one. I have read most of
                                        what has been written about the battle, and the
                                        controversies that have arisen concerning the battle. I am
                                        morally certain that General Wagner was not so much to blame
                                        as three other generals higher up in command, who did not
                                        assume the responsibility that they should have assumed.
                                    About twenty years after the battle, General Cox wrote a
                                        so-called history, in which he puts all the blame on General
                                        Wagner. General Cox belonged to a different corps, but for
                                        the time Wagner had been directed to report to him. He said
                                        that General Wagner's men retreated from the front
                                        to the river, and were no longer in the fight. This is a
                                        direct contradiction of the brigade commanders and the
                                        regimental commanders of that division, which lost more than
                                        all the rest of the army. I felt that an injustice had been
                                        done to Wagner and his brave men. I at once took the matter
                                        up with General Cox and stated the facts as I knew them to
                                        be.
                                    What I would like for you to let me know, is whether any of
                                        the loyal sons of Indiana ever came to the defense of
                                        Wagner. If so, has any paper on the subject ever been
                                        prepared from your society? I know that some  of the friends of Wagner came
                                        to his rescue in brief newspaper items. If your society has
                                        ever had such a paper prepared, will you let me know how I
                                        may have a chance to read it? Can you inform me whether any
                                        of Wagner's family are living? Can you put me in
                                        touch with the Loyal Legion of Indiana?
                                    I have written not a little in newspapers, touching Wagner
                                        and his command, but have never prepared a formal paper in
                                        defense of Wagner. I was at the recent re-union at 
                                            Franklin
                                         on the fiftieth anniversary of the battle and I
                                        found that-there was still a tendency to deny justice to the
                                        brave old commander. I am tempted to prepare such a paper if
                                        I can secure all the data that I need.
                                    Hoping that I am not making an unreasonable request of you,
                                        and that you can give me some help in establishing the real
                                        facts for the future historian, I remain,
                                
                        Yours very truly,
                        W. W. GIST,
                        
                           Professor of English in 
                                            Iowa
                                         State Teacher's College, Cedar Falls, 
                                            Iowa
                                        
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    THE LINCOLN WAY
                
            The last Indiana General Assembly took up the work begun by the legislatures of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     of locating and at least marking the route by which the 
                        Lincoln
                     family moved on its way from the log cabin home at Hodginville,
                    Ky., across southern Indiana to 
                        Springfield
                    , 111. In general, the way in Indiana lies from 
                        Troy
                     in 
                        Perry county
                     to 
                        Lincoln City
                     in 
                        Spencer
                    ; from there by a route to be ascertained to the crossing of the 
                        Wabash
                    , perhaps at Vin-cennes.
            The Indiana statute provided for a commission of two to be appointed by the
                    governor. Governor S. M. Ralston, in pursuance of the act, appointed Jesse W.
                    Weik, of 
                        Greencastle
                    , a well-known 
                        Lincoln
                     enthusiast, and Joseph M. Cravens, of 
                        Madison
                    , on the commission. The selection is excellent and should give
                    universal satisfaction. The commissioners serve without pay.
            The question of the way will not be easily settled. The Lincolns were not
                    remarkable at the time of their migration and at the time attracted no more
                    attention than any one of a thousand other pioneer families moving west at the
                    same time. Likewise there was no direct way or road from Gentryville or the 
                        Lincoln
                     home in 
                        Spencer county
                     to the crossing of the 
                        Wabash
                     that was followed perforce by the movers of the day. Few persons
                    who have not had experience sifting traditions will realize the extent or
                    difficulty involved in weighing the immense mass of traditions, or hearsay
                    evidence, that have gathered around the 
                        Lincoln
                     history. It is to be hoped the commissioners  will gather up the traditions and preserve them, so
                    that the evidence on which their final decision rests will be available to the
                    public.
            
                    THE COUNTY SEAT OF MADISON COUNTY.
                
            A letter from John L. Forkner, of Anderson, calls attention to what is probably
                    an error in the March, 1914, number of the MAGAZINE. On page
                    24 it is stated that 
                        Bedford
                     was designated in the statute as the county seat. There is no
                    question about the reading of the statute of January 4, 1827. It is found in Laws of Indiana, 1826-7, p. 65, and reads as follows: 
                        
                     Be it enacted, etc., That it shall be lawful for Ansel 
                                Richmond
                            , recorder of 
                                Madison county
                            , and clerk of the circuit court of the same, to hold his
                            offices and keep his books and papers belonging to said offices, at the
                            house of Nathaniel 
                                Richmond
                             in said county, except in times of holding courts, until
                            the lots shall be sold in the town of 
                                Bedford
                             the seat of justice for said county."
                    
            
            
                    NAMING THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE
                
            The following item is furnished by Alva O. Reser, of 
                        Lafayette
                    : 
                        William Digby laid out the plat of the city of 
                                Lafayette
                             on May 25, 1825. At the time Digby platted the town site
                            which he named 
                                Lafayette
                            , General Marie Jean Paul Roch Yoes Gilbert Motier De 
                                Lafayette
                            , who aided the colonists in their war for independence was
                            visiting the 
                                United States
                            . General 
                                Lafayette
                             was then 68 years old. He visited 
                                St. Louis
                             on April 29, 1825, with his son, George 
                                Washington
                            
                            
                                Lafayette
                            ; 
                                Louisville
                            , May 9, 1825; 
                                Cincinnati
                            , May 19, and 20, 1825; and on May 25, 1825, the day the
                            site of 
                                Lafayette
                             was platted by Mr. Digby, General 
                                Lafayette
                             was at Uniontown, Pa. It was because of this fact and the
                            interest of the country in General 
                                Lafayette
                             at that time, that induced Wiliam Digby to name his town
                            site 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                    
            
            
                    THE TEN O'CLOCK LINE
                
            The following letter calls attention to an error in an article recently published
                    in the MAGAZINE: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sir—I see in TSE INDIANA. MAGAZINE
                                            OF HISTORY a map of the "New
                                        Purchase" in Indiana, the western boundary of which
                                        is called the "Eleven O'clock
                                        Line."
                                    I was well acquainted with one of the men, a Mr. James
                                        Gregory, that helped run the line and he said it was called
                                        the "Ten O'clock Line." It was
                                        run in 1816 and terminated at White river about two and
                                        one-half  miles west of
                                        Seymour, Ind. Its starting point was at the mouth of Big
                                        Eaccoon creek where it empties into the 
                                            Wabash
                                         and runs in a southeast course to its
                                        termination. At ten o'clock a shadow would indicate
                                        the course the compass would pass. This was to show the
                                        Indians that the surveyor was not cheating them.
                                    miles west of Seymour, Ind. Its starting point was at the
                                        mouth of Big Eaccoon creek where it empties into the 
                                            Wabash
                                         and runs in a southeast course to its
                                        termination. At ten o'clock a shadow would indicate
                                        the course the compass would pass. This was to show the
                                        Indians that the surveyor was not cheating them.
                                    miles west of Seymour, Ind. Its starting point was at the
                                        mouth of Big Eaccoon creek where it empties into the 
                                            Wabash
                                         and runs in a southeast course to its
                                        termination. At ten o'clock a shadow would indicate
                                        the course the compass would pass. This was to show the
                                        Indians that the surveyor was not cheating them.
                                    miles west of Seymour, Ind. Its starting point was at the
                                        mouth of Big Eaccoon creek where it empties into the 
                                            Wabash
                                         and runs in a southeast course to its
                                        termination. At ten o'clock a shadow would indicate
                                        the course the compass would pass. This was to show the
                                        Indians that the surveyor was not cheating them.
                                    In 
                                            Monroe county
                                         not far from where Gosport is now located there
                                        was trouble between the Indians and surveyors, the Indians
                                        contending that the surveyors were cheating them by changing
                                        the compass.
                                    This map shows the end of the line to be about three miles
                                        from the river when it ought to be at the river. Gregory
                                        left the surveying party, went to 
                                            Vallonia
                                        , then to 
                                            Salem
                                        , the main parties going to 
                                            Madison
                                         on the 
                                            Ohio
                                         river. This old man in after (years) joined the
                                        Mormons and was with them at Nauvoo, 111., and continued
                                        with them until Salt Lake was reached, after which he came
                                        back to Indiana and died in 
                                            Vallonia
                                         in 1868.
                                    The Indian Boundary Line that runs through 
                                            Jackson county
                                         begins at a point on White river where the
                                        range line No. 3 crosses the river, so I have been informed
                                        since I was a small boy by my grandfather, Abraham Miller,
                                        who was one of the first settlers of 
                                            Vallonia
                                         in 1810.
                                
                        Respectfully, FRED MILLER, Seymour, Ind.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    AN ERROR
                
            In the next to the last sentence in the article in the March number written by
                    Professor Lynch on the "Flow of Colonists to and from
                    Indiana," an error was made in copying the manuscript. The sentence
                    should read: 
                        "Up to the taking of the census of 1860, 
                                Ohio
                             had sent the largest number of immigrants into 
                                Kansas
                             of any state in the Union, the number being 11,617; 
                                Missouri
                             was second with 11,356; Indiana was third with 9,945; 
                                Illinois
                             was fourth with 9,367."
                    
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               America in Ferment. By PAUL LELAND
                    HAWORTH, Ph. D. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1915. 477 pp.
            The above-named volume is one of a series entitled Problems of the Nations, of
                    which Dr. Haworth is general editor and the Bobbs-Merrill Co. the publishers. As
                    indicated by the title of his book Dr. Haworth correctly assumes that the nation
                    is not at ease. During the period roughly marked by the years 1896-1910 the
                    nation was largely satisfied with itself. The general tone of our newspapers and
                    magazines was pride in the achievements and success of our political and
                    business institutions. Beginning with the "Muck-rakers" in the
                    newspapers, extending through a long series of magazine articles and culminating
                    in a flood of books during the last five years, the people have veered around in
                    their attitude to a position of searching criticism.
            All our officers, our offices, our institutions, our business organization and
                    practices from the President down to the corner grocery have been before this
                    inquisition in which most of the inquisitors have been self-appointed reporters,
                    magazine writers and authors. These investigations have disclosed certain
                    assumed weaknesses in the political and economic situation. Dr. Haworth has
                    summed up the findings of this long investigation together with the various
                    methods of improvement most in favor. The author has made careful preparation
                    for his work and speaks with confidence. Conservation, Immigration, Race,
                    Industrial Justice, Labor, Trusts, Plutocracy, Standard of Living, Woman
                    Suffrage, Defection, Political Ideals, Socialism are the important problems
                    discussed.
            The author is frankly a believer in progress. Like his fellow authors, Croley,
                    Weyl, 
                        Van
                     Hise, Wilson, Roosevelt, and Ely, he has a vision of a greater
                    future for this country than the mere production of wealth. "Ideals and
                    ambitions are the soul of a nation; without them it is a body supine, a thing
                    inert." In the chapter headed "The Blood of the
                    Nation" the author makes out a strong case for limiting immigration.
                    The argument is so convincing  that one
                    wonders why our Presidents oppose restriction so strenuously. The author plainly
                    states his opinion (p. 108), "One result of the Protective Tariff has
                    been that instead of goods being manufactured abroad and sent hither in the
                    natural course of trade, cheap foreign labor has been imported and the goods
                    have been produced on our own shores." In the chapter on Our Changing
                    Institutions the author pleads for a wider democracy, a larger use of the
                    national power, a greater freedom from judicial tyranny, and a better method of
                    selecting officers.
            On the whole one feels after reading the volume that he has had a fair review of
                    the case of the people vs. the government. The weak points of both sides are
                    indicated and the strong points emphasized. The author makes many bold and some
                    startling statements which many readers will take issue with. But in no case can
                    one accuse the writer of hedging. Whether or not they agree in all particulars
                    all good citizens will join with the author in his general optimism, and hope
                    with him that a better public opinion, a stronger government, a higher life, and
                    loftier ideals will result from the present travail.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               History of the Democratic Party Organization in the
                    Northwest. By HOMER J. WEBSTER,
                    Ph.D., Department of History, University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Published by the Author, 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , January, 1915. pp. 120.
            Doctor Webster is not a newcomer in this field. His history of the administration
                    of Governor W. H. Harrison was published some years ago by the Indiana
                    Historical Society. The present volume is entitled a History of the
                        Democratic Party Organization in the Northwest. Dr. Webster has devoted
                    his attention almost entirely to the development of the political party
                    machinery of the Democrats. The study is based almost entirely on newspaper
                    sources. The party organization, as Dr. Webster has found, dates from the winter
                    of 1823-4. The 
                        Ohio
                     State convention met at 
                        Columbus
                     July 14, 1824, and nominated Jackson electors. A State committee as
                    well as county and township committees were appointed. 
                        Ohio
                     thus preceded Indiana two months in holding a State convention. The
                    Indiana State convention met at 
                        Salem
                     September 16, though in many counties conventions had been held as
                    early as January. Taking the State as a whole, it seems Indiana had a better and
                    wider organization than 
                        Ohio
                    . 
                        Cincinnati
                     was perhaps the center  of the
                    Jackson organization for the whole Northwest. Dr. Webster has carried his
                    investigations down to the memorable campaign of 1840, when the Jackson machine
                    was overthrown throughout the Northwest. It is an exceedingly valuable study in
                    a practically new field. The book appears as a "separate" from
                    the current number of the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Archalological and Historical Quarterly for April.
         
         
            
               History of Education in 
                            Iowa
                        
               . By CLARENCE ROY AURNER, Ph.D.
                    Published by the State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , at 
                        Iowa City
                    , 1914. Two vols., pp. xiv+436, and ix+469.
            The society has planned a History of Education in 
                        Iowa
                     in six volumes. The first two, dealing with primary education, have
                    been published. The first volume is devoted to the schools proper, the second
                    volume to accessory organizations, such as teachers' institutes, State
                    associations, school boards, school journals and all the other agencies of the
                    profession. The first volume is divided into five parts, (1) A historical
                    introduction; (2) The public school funds; (3) School districts; (4) Teachers in
                    public schools; and (5) 
                        Text
                    -books in the schools. The experience of 
                        Iowa
                     seems to be similar to that of the other States of the Northwest.
                    The early district and subscription schools had very little encouragement from
                    the State and consequently very little in the way of regularity or organization.
                    The first school law was passed by the territorial legislature in 1838. It
                    provided for an army of school officers, such as a Territorial School
                    Commission, county school boards, trustees, clerks, treasurers, assessors, and
                    collectors. Each district was incorporated, thus introducing the disastrous
                    policy of decentralization. In 1840 the township system was introduced with
                    better results. With the admission of the State in 1846 a decided improvement
                    appears. Dr. Aurner has carefully traced most of the changes made in the system
                    down to the present. The first volume is written from the legal or historical
                    standpoint. Little effort has been made to point out the merits or defects of
                    its system or of the changes proposed or inaugurated. Volume II is divided into
                    six parts dealing with (1) School supervision; (2) State boards; (3)
                    Teachers'Institutes; (4) Teachers' Associations; (5)
                    Miscellaneous activities; (6) Proposed legislation. In this volume the author
                    writes of the State school system from a professional standpoint, pointing out
                    the value of the agencies as he recites their history. Taken as a whole, it is a
                         commendable work, more thorough,
                    perhaps, as a history than suggestive, as a discussion. For a publication of
                    this nature this is the better plan. Many of the organizations and institutions
                    discussed are still in active operation and for the writer of such a book to
                    launch into a critical discussion would be to lose the support of many of his
                    associates. Such a work as Dr. Aurner has performed should be a very valuable
                    aid to the teachers of 
                        Iowa
                    . By making thus clear the road they have traveled the path of
                    future progress should be made straighter and plainer.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               The Proceedings of the 
                             Mississippi 
                         Valley Historical Association for 1913-1914 have just been
                    distributed from the Torch Light Press of Cedar Rapids, la. They form Volume 7
                    of the series and include the papers and addresses of the meeting at Grand
                    Forks, 
                        North Dakota 
                    , May 26, 27, and 28, 1914. Of interest to Indiana readers are
                    "Some Phases of the History of the Northwest," by James A.
                    James; "American Opinions Regarding the West, 1778-1783," by
                    Paul C. Phillips; and "The Organization of the Jack-sonian Party in
                    Indiana," by Logan Esarey. The latter is a 24-page paper dealing with
                    the formation of the Democratic Party in Indiana. It deals with the period from
                    1816 to 1832.
            
               The 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Bulletin appeared for the first time February,
                    1915. It is the medium of communication between the members of the Historical
                    Society. The first number contains an address by Prof. Clarence W. Alvord of the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     on the "Relation of the State to Historical
                    Work." This address was delivered at the meeting of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, January 18, 1915, and also at Indianapodis at a
                    recent meeting of the State History Teachers.
            Dr. S. J. Buck, superintendent of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, is editor of the new publication.
            
               The National Genealogical Society Quarterly for April, 1915,
                    contains 206 entries from the marriage records of 
                        Jefferson county
                     (
                        Louisville
                    ), Ky., between 1784 and 1800. In the list are the names of many
                    Hoosier pioneers.
            
               Major George Adams is the title of a pamphlet written by George
                    A. Katzenberger of Greenville, 
                        Ohio
                    . The biography recently appeared in the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Archaeological and Historical
                    
                    Society Publications. Major Adams was prominent in the Indian
                    wars which culminated in the treaty of Greenville in 1795; and he later served
                    honorably in the War of 1812.
            
               THE first number of The Catholic Historical
                        Review published by the Catholic University of America at 
                        Washington
                     appeared in April, 1915. It is a well executed magazine of 120
                    pages. Its purpose is to encourage the study of church history in the 
                        United States
                    . The only article in the first number that is of especial
                    significance for Indiana history is one by Rt. Rev. Camillus P. Maes, D. D., on
                    "Flemish Franciscan Missionaries in North America
                    (1674-1738)."
            
               The Biennial Report of the Trustees of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library shows that 
                        Illinois
                     is making great progress in the work of collecting and publishing
                    the source materials of the State's history. The library now has 40,187
                    books and pamphlets besides a vast number of manuscripts and newspapers. A
                    museum illustrative of the State's history has been founded. Two
                    volumes have recently been published and it is expected that at least three more
                    will be distributed this summer. The society has recently made a careful
                    inspection of the county archives. The State annually appropriates
                    $25,000 for this work.
            
               The 
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for April contains a biography of
                    Nathaniel Patten, founder of the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Intelligencer and Boon's Lick Advertiser, April
                    23, 1819. This was the first newspaper north of the 
                        Missouri
                     and west of the 
                         Mississippi 
                    . Another article of equal interest is a "Bibliography of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     Press Association." This association has held 48 annual
                    meetings besides sessions. The 
                        Missouri
                     State Historical Library has a full set of the addresses and papers
                    of these meetings. No better history of the 
                        Missouri
                     Press could be desired.
            
               The Seventh Biennial Report of the State Historical Society of 
                            Missouri
                        
                shows commendable activity on the part of the society. It
                    was organized by the 
                        Missouri
                     Press Association in 1898 and incorporated in 1899. The general
                    assembly made it the trustee for the State of its documentary records. It now
                    has 26,539 books and over 14,000 pamphlets on 
                        Missouri
                     history. Six hundred eighty-one  newspapers of the State make it the repository of their files and send to it
                    their current numbers. The society binds these and they are preserved. It now
                    has 6,731 bound volumes of State newspapers. A magnificent new historical
                    library building has been erected. The society has an income of about
                    $10,000 per year.
            
               The 
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for April has an extended
                    history of Des Moines, by D. E. Clark. Other shorter articles are "The
                    Half-Breed Tract," by Jacob Vander Zee; "The Career of Jacob
                    Rich," by George E. Roberts; "The Indians of 
                        Iowa
                    ," taken from The Friend, December 23,
                    1843.
            
               THE
                    
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission is preparing for publication a volume of 
                        Michigan
                     biographies. Stephen D. Bingham is editing and compiling the
                    volume. The biographies of all the men who have been members of the State
                    Legislature will be included. A bibliography of 
                        Michigan
                     newspapers is in process of completion. The commission has also
                    devoted a great deal of time to marking historical sites.
            The commission has issued four Bulletins. The first is devoted
                    to the origin, organization, and aims of the society; the second, to
                    "'Suggestions for Local Historical Societies and Writers in 
                        Michigan
                    "; the third to an historical "Sketch of
                    Historical Societies in 
                        Michigan
                    ," and the fourth to the year's
                    "Proceedings."
            
               IN
                    the Proceedings of American Antiquarian Society for 1913 is a
                    list of the newspapers of the 
                        United States
                     founded before 1820. Indiana is represented by 17 papers. Of these,
                    two were founded in 
                        Brookville
                     (the Plain Dealer, 1816, and the Enquirer, 1819); one in 
                        Charlestown
                     (the Indiana Intelligencer, 1818); two in Corydon
                    (the Indiana Gazette, 1816, and the Indiana
                        Herald, 1816); one in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     (the Indianian, 1818); two in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     (the 
                  
                            Dearborn
                         Gazette, 1817, and the Indiana Oracle,
                    1819); three in 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lexington
                     (the Western Eagle, 1813, the Cornucopia, 1815, and the Indiana Republican, 1816);
                    one from 
                        Salem
                     (the Tocsin, 1818); two from 
                        Vevay
                     (the Examiner, 1819, and the Indiana
                        Register, 1816); and three from 
                        Vincennes
                     (the Indiana Centinel, 1817, Indiana
                        Gazette, 1804, and the Western Sun, 1807). The last
                    named is the only one now in existence.
            
            
               THE
                    
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society held its annual meeting at 
                        Newcastle
                     April 29. Rev. F. S. C. Wicks made the principal address. His
                    subject was "A Neglected 
                        Patriot
                    ." W. H. Keesling is president, and Mrs. Allegra Bufkin,
                    secretary.
            
               THE Independent Turnverein of 
                        Indianapolis
                     unveiled a portrait of its founder, Adolph Seidensticker, at the
                    Turnverein clubhouse May 2. Mr. Seidensticker was a leading citizen of the city
                    from 1860 till his death in 1892. He was a leader in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Maennerchor, a lawyer by profession, but will doubtless be longer
                    remembered as an editor. He edited the Volksblatt, the Telegraph, the Spottvogel, and Zukunft. The latter was the organ of the Turnerbund.
            
               THE
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star has been running in its Sunday magazine section a history
                    of the press of Indiana. These articles commence with the founding of the Western Sun or rather the Gazette, at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804, and so far have brought the story down to the forties.
                    Accompanying each is a brief biography of some living editor or publisher of a
                    current newspaper.
            
               THE
                    
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat continues its biographies of persons now living in 
                        Washington county
                     past the age of 80. One of these biographies accompanied by a
                    portrait occupies the front page of each number of the Democrat. Judging from these biographies, the great majority of the early
                    settlers of that county came from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Carolinas.
            
               THE
                    
                        Princeton
                    
                    Clarion continues its series of articles on Civil War Politics
                    in 
                        Gibson County
                    . The articles are written by Col. Gil R. Stormont, who took part in
                    the campaigns he discusses.
            
               THE
                    
                  
                            Daviess county
                         Democrat, April 3, 1915, contains a story by William
                    Donelly. He relates that he came from 
                        Ireland
                     with his parents and family in 1854. The entire trip was made by
                    water, coming via 
                        New Orleans
                    , ascending the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the 
                        Ohio
                    , the 
                        Wabash
                    , and White rivers to Maysville. This was three years before the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     railroad was built, putting an end to water transportation to 
                        Washington
                    . Mr. Donelly's story is interesting and typical.
            
            
               THE Orleans Progress-Examiner is endeavoring
                    to arouse enough historic interest in Orleans to enable the citizens to
                    establish a marker for Freeman's Corner, which is very near their town.
            
               THE
                    
                  
                            Steuben
                         Republican of March 17, 1915, has a brief historical
                    notice of Tri-State College. The occasion was the thirtieth anniversary of the
                    inauguration of President L. M. Sniff. The institution was then called the
                    Tri-State Normal, was in its second year and in a condition of doubt as to its
                    future existence. In the almost third of a century the school has prospered and
                    done a great work for the State. The Republican rightly
                    appreciates the great value of the school as a business asset of the city and
                    community.
            
               THE
                    Rising Sun Recorder of March 5, 1915, has a brief notice of
                    the library of the late Samuel F. Covington. The library was composed almost
                    entirely of source material on 
                        Ohio
                     Valley History. It contained files of the Rising Sun Times, 1833-1841; Farmers' Journal, Sun-Journal, 
                            Dearborn county
                         Register, and Indiana 
                            Patriot
                        
               , for the years 1837-1841; Indiana Blade,
                    1843-1848; Indiana Whig, 1848-1850; Indiana
                        Republican, 1851-1854; 
                  
                            Ohio county
                         Recorder, 1868-1873; Recorder,
                    1874-1885; Saturday News, 1881; Local,
                    1880-1885. Besides these are many volumes of 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers. There were also large numbers of pamphlets. The library
                    went to Miami University as a gift.
         
      
   
