
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 2, Issue 1, pages 1-56. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:2+issue:1+year:1906&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                THE OLD INDIAN TRADERS OF INDIANA
                
                    BY CHARLES B. LASSELLE
                
                [This account of the early traders of Indiana was written nearly fifty years ago by Charles B.
                    Lasselle, of 
                        Logansport
                    , now eighty-five years old. He is of a French family of traders that has been
                    identified with the Wabash valley for more
                    than one hundred and twenty-five years, and has himself been a life-long student of the earlier
                    history of the valley and a collector of documents bearing upon the same; hence he speaks as an
                    authority upon this all-but-forgotten early trade.—Editor.]
                OF the early pioneers of our State, there is no class whose history, if known, would be more
                    interesting than that of the old Indian traders. Far in advance of the progress, changes and
                    improvements of civilization, they beheld our country in all the wildness, grandeur and solitude in
                    which the God of nature placed it; and they commingled freely and familiarly with the aboriginal
                    owners who have forever disappeared from its face. In point of time, they were among the first, if
                    not themselves the first, of the explorers of the country, and are known to have visited and traded
                    with the Indians within our borders about a century previous to our Revolutionary War. They have
                    always occupied a prominent position in the early historical events of the country, as a controlling
                    medium in the relations between the whites and Indians. But although—whether French, English or
                    Americans—they have generally been men of education and general intelligence, yet such have been the
                    peculiar nature and vicissitudes of their calling, that they have left us very few records of their
                    experience.
                The earliest traders were French, and came mostly from 
                        Montreal
                    , in 
                        Canada
                    . From this place they transported their merchandise up the St. Lawrence and across the
                    shores of the Lakes, to their posts in the West, by means of the simple canoe. At first, and before
                    the introduction of horses, the difficulties of passing 
                        Niagara Falls
                     and the portage between the head waters  of the
                    streams running into the Lakes and the 
                        Mississippi
                     were surmounted by carrying the canoes and merchandise by means of the men employed in
                    the voyage. The Normandy horse, whose descendents have long been known as the Canadian and Indian
                    ponies, having been introduced into 
                        Canada
                    , was afterwards, and probably about 1720, brought to the West, and made to serve as
                    pack-horses for all land transportation. And such were the principal modes of transportation in the
                    West, at least in Indiana, from about 1680 to about 1812. The Canadian cart, samples of which are
                    yet to be seen about the old French settlements, had indeed been used about the villages in the
                    early day; but there being no roads of any length, other than the narrow Indian trail, they could
                    not be used for distant transportation.
                We can scarcely realize, at this day, the extent to which the Indian trade was carried on, both in
                    the amount of goods sold, and the furs and the peltries received in exchange. When the country was
                    first visited by the traders, the animals affording these commodities were found in great abundance.
                    The Buffalo ranged in large numbers over the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     and those of our own State bordering on the Wabash, as well as in the forests in the vicinity of the salt
                    springs. The Beaver, the remains of whose dams are yet to be found in many parts of the State,
                    especially in the northern portion, was to be found in many of the northern streams. The Bear, Elk,
                    Deer, Panther, Otter, Wolf, Wildcat, Fox and Raccoon, were also to be found in considerable numbers
                    in various portions of the State. The Indians not having any weapons with which to take these
                    animals but the simple stone-headed arrow, nor any clothing but the rude elk or deer skin, the
                    introduction of the gun and merchandise by the traders, soon afforded both parties a rich harvest.
                    And although the amount of furs produced was afterwards very much diminished by the destruction of
                    game, yet it still continued large for a long time; and the trade yet yielded the traders large
                    gains so late as about the year 1838, when the principal body of the Pottawattamie tribe of Indians
                    emigrated west of the Mississippi.
                It is perhaps impossible to state, at this distance of time, who was the first trader within the
                    limits of our State, or when or where he traded. It is quite probable, however, that the northern
                         portion was traversed by some of their clerks, called "couriers des bois" (woods rangers,) between the years 1660-70; and it is certain
                    that some of La Salle's men traded in the vicinity of the St. Joseph of Lake Michigan, in the year 1680. But the first of whom we have
                    any definite account was the Sieur Juchereau, Lieutenant General of 
                        Montreal
                    , who, we are told, established a trading post "on the Wabash," in the name of a company, for the collection of buffalo
                    skins. There has indeed been some doubt as to the locality of this spot; but, coinciding with Judge
                    Law in his address to the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical Society, 1839, for the reasons therein given, together with others, and
                    especially the coincidence of its date of settlement with that of 
                        Vincennes
                    , as given by its ancient inhabitants,* the writer deems it
                    conclusive that the town of 
                        Vincennes
                     is the site of this trading post.
                The Sieur Juchereau arrived at this spot, at the head of thirty-four Canadians, on the 28th of
                    October, 1702, for the purpose, as mentioned, of trafficking for buffalo skins, and such was his
                    success in the trade that in a little over two years afterwards there were collected at the post, at
                    one time, upwards of thirteen thousand of those skins.† How many had been collected in the meantime
                    and shipped off, is unknown. The establishment, however, soon met with disasters. Juchereau died;
                    and, although he was succeeded by another, a Mr. Lambert, yet the hostilities of the Indians forced
                    them to abandon it as a trading post, and Lambert with forty men descended to Mobile—then the
                    headquarters of 
                        Louisiana
                    —in the winter of 1705. The above mentioned number of skins having been left at that
                    post, they were neglected by the agents of that company, and were eventually lost.‡
                For a long while after Juchereau's settlement at 
                        Vincennes
                    , we have no particular account of any other; although there must have been traders soon
                    afterwards—at least by 1721—at the village of 
                        St. Joseph
                    ,§ Ke-ki-ong-a, We-ah-ta-non and 
                        Vincennes
                    ; as the three former places were well known to 
                        
                            * Dillon's Historical Notes, p. 100.
                        † Certainly a very interesting statement, in view of our meager knowledge of the buffalo
                            in Indiana.—Editor.
                        
                        ‡ La Harpe's Historical Journal, pp. 75, 88-89.
                        § Near the present town of 
                                South Bend
                            .
                    
                     the early French writers,∗ and the latter had
                    also become a military post in 1716.†
                Of those who traded at the above named and other points, from Juchereau's time until the date of
                    Governor Harrison's list of 1801-2, the following only are known to the writer:—
                At VINCENNES, Antoine Drouet de Richardville traded previous to the year 1764; but
                    how long before is unknown. He had also traded, many years before, at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    ; and a promissory note, in the possession of the writer, which was given to him in the
                    manner of those times, might be produced here as an ancient writing, and as the earliest specimen of
                    the commercial paper of of the West, known, it is believed, to the public. It
                    reads thus:
                "I, the undersigned, under my ordinary mark, owe to Sir de Drouet Richardville the sum of thirteen
                    livres in beaver or other peltries, which I promise to pay in the course of the year seventeen
                    hundred and thirty-nine. At 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , April 21, 1738.
                Witness: M. P. Beaubien."
                his "DELA X VIGOIER. mark.
                John Bt. Bosseron traded at the same place (
                        Vincennes
                    ) about 1760 to 1780; Francis Bosseron and Ambrose Dagenet from about 1775 to about
                    1790, and John M. P. Legralle, Adhemer St. Martin and Lawrence Bazadone, at times embraced in the
                    latter periods. Two of these traders, Major Francis Bosseron and Col. J. M. P. Legralle (usually
                    spelled Legras), also took a prominent part in the Revolutionary scenes about 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1778-9, and rendered very valuable services in the American cause. There was a
                    Piankashaw village adjoining this place, but the trade also extended to other tribes.
                At KE-KI-ONG-A,‡ Joseph Drouet de Richardville, the father of the late Chief of
                    the tribe, traded from about 1750 to about 1770; Peter F. La Fontain traded from about 1775 to 1795;
                    John Beaubien traded during the same period; James Lasselle traded from 1776 to 1780. This
                    individual having been an officer in the Canadian militia, was appointed to the superintendency of
                    this "post" as an agent of Indian affairs, and resided 
                        
                            ∗Charlevoix, p. 189.
                        †La Harpe, p. 123.
                        ‡Where 
                                Ft. Wayne
                             stands
                    
                     here with his family; but he was forced to abandon it
                    precipitately on La Balme's expedition in the fall of 1780. David Gray, as one of a company, also
                    traded here about the year 1786.
                At WE-AH-TA-NON, Francis, Peter and Nicholas Berthelet, three brothers, traded
                    from about 1776 to 1780. A Mr. Piett also traded here at an early period, but the precise time is
                    unknown. This place is said to have been a very early trading point, and Captain Croghan, who
                    visited it in 1765, says of it in his journal, that "the great plenty of furs taken in this country,
                    induced the French to establish this post, which was the first on the Wabash; and by a very advantageous trade, they have been richly
                    recompensed for their labor."
                At KE-NA-PE-KA-ME-KONG-A, or Eel River town, an old Miami village on Eel River, about six miles above the present town of 
                        Logansport
                    , there were also traders at an early period. But the only one now known was James
                    Godfrey (father of the late War Chief of the tribe), who traded from about 1775 to 1791, when the
                    village was destroyed by General Wilkinson.
                Besides those above mentioned there were many other traders at these and other places, and at other
                    periods of time; but perhaps the above meager list is all that can now be furnished of the
                    individuals.
                TRADERS LICENSED BY GOVERNOR HARRISON.
                I have in my possession a list of Indian traders that were licensed by Governor Harrison in 1801-2.
                    The original document is in the handwriting of John Rice Jones, who acted as amanuensis for John
                    Gibson, then Secretary of the Territory.
                Nearly all in this list had traded with the Indians previous to this date and continued to do so
                    afterwards. They are as follows, as given in the original:
                Licenses granted by the Governor to Indian traders:
                
                    1801—November — One to — Todd to trade with the Delawares on Blue River, where the road to 
                        Louisville
                     crosses that river, (Note 1).
                20th. One to Ambrose Dagenet to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Terrehaute, (2).
                26th. One to — L'Espagnol to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Packangahelis, (3).
                
                27th. One to Henry Mayrans to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Terrehaute.
                27th. One to—Le Claire to trade with the Kickapoo nation of Indians at their town, (4).
                27th. One to Francis Bonins to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Quinquiqui, (5).
                27th. One to Thos. Lusby to trade with the Kikapoes at their town.
                27th. One to Jno. Bt. Petrimean to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of 
                        Mississippi
                    , (6).
                27th. One to Francis Lafantazie to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Chipaille, (7).
                28th. One to William Morrison to trade with the Indians in the neighborhood of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , (8).
                30th. One to Etienne Bisayon to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Telipockshy, (9).
                30th. One to Antoine Lasselle to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Nantico, (10).
                30th. One to Antoine Lasselle to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Grand Marias, (10).
                30th. One to Louis Boure to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Coeur de Serf, (11).
                30th. One to Hyacinth Lasselle to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Massissinoui, (12).
                30th. One to Baptiste Boismier to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Chatagnier, (13).
                30th. One to Benoit Besayon to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Eel Creek, (14).
                30th. One to John and William Conner to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Petchepencues, (15).
                30th. One to John and William Conner to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Buckengelaus, (15).
                December 4th. One to Baptiste Bino to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Tippiconou,
                    (16).
                4th. One to Baptiste Toupin to trade with the Kikapoe nation at their town.
                4th. One to Francis Meilleur to trade with the Kikapoe nation at their town of 
                        Vermillion
                    .
                5th. One to Charles Johnson to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Terrehaute.
                
                8th. One to Peter Thorn to trade with the Delaware nation at their town on the Ohio river, opposite the town of 
                        Henderson
                    , in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
                12th. One to Frederick Fisher to trade with the 
                        Delaware
                     nation at their town of Buckengelis.
                12th. One to Frederick Fisher to trade with the Shawnee nation at their Old Town, (17).
                12th. One to Samuel Harrison to trade with the Cherokee nation at their town of Massac, (18).
                12th. One to Michael Brouillet to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Renaud, (19).
                12th. One to Louis Severs to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Little Wabash, (20).
                12th. One with Jos. Dumay to trade with the Delaware nation at their town of White River Ferry.
                15th. One to Germain Charbonneau to trade with the Miami nation at their town of Chipaille.
                15th. One to Jannet Pillet to trade with the Delaware nation at their town of 
                        White River
                    .
                1802—January 7th. One to Joseph Numonville to trade with the Ottowa nation at their town of
                    Machekigon, (21).
                7th. One to Joseph Bailey, to trade with the Ottowa nation at their town on the Grand
                    River, (22).
                7th. One to Joseph Pirigaure, to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Kiakiki, (23).
                7th. One to Joseph Machard, to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Kiakiki, (24).
                7th. One to Joseph Ricard, to trade with the Ottowa nation at their town of Grand River, (24).
                7th. One to Etienne Lamorandiere to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town Kickalimazo,
                    (24).
                7th. One to Peter Prejan, to trade with the Potawatimie and Ottowa nations at their town on the
                        River St. Joseph, (25).
                7th. One to John Griffin to trade with the Potawatimie nation at their town of Kiakiki, (25).
                The above list comprises the most of those who traded within the present limits of the State, for
                    some years previous to its territorial date and until the commencement of hostilities in 1811;
                    although there were some others afterwards licensed by Governor 
                    Harrison and by the Superintendent of Indian Affairs at 
                        Detroit
                    . The war of course put a stop to the trade during its continuance; but on its close in
                    1815, it was resumed—generally by new traders—to a much less extent. The old traders, as before
                    remarked, having with great unanimity taken up arms for the protection of the frontiers against the
                    Indians, the survivors had too much lost the confidence of the Indians to make it pleasant or
                    profitable to resume the business.
                At Fort Harrison it was resumed in 1815, mostly with the Delawares, Pottawattamies, Shawnees and
                    Kickapoos, and was continued at that point until about 1820. The principal traders here at that
                    period were Pierre La Plante, Etienne Bisayon,—Wallace, Anthony Lafons,—Gilbert,—Rollon and Michael
                    Brouillet. About this period the Shawnees, Kickapoos and Delawares removed from the limits of the
                    State, except a few of the latter near the eastern boundary, leaving only the Pottawattamies and
                    Miamis, with whom the trade was continued in the northern portion of the State—the former mostly
                    inhabiting the country on the Tippecanoe,
                    the Kankakee and the St. Joseph rivers; the latter that on the
                        Wabash, Eel, the little St.
                        Joseph and the the St.
                    Mary rivers.
                John B. Richardville, the late Chief of the Miamis, traded with that tribe, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , from about 1815 to 1836.
                David Conner traded mostly with the same tribe, at the village on the Mississinnewa, from about 1815 to 1846.
                Alexis Coquillard and John E. Swartz traded with the Miamis and Pottawattamies, on the Little
                        St. Joseph, about forty miles
                    from 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , from 1817 to 1821.
                Coquillard and Francis Comparet traded—the former at 
                        South Bend
                     with the Pottawattamies; the latter at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     with the Miamis—from 1821 to 1835.
                John B. Duret, as agent of the American Fur Company, traded, mostly with the Pottawattamies, at a
                    spot on the southern bank of the Wabash, a
                    short distance above the mouth of Rock Creek, in 
                        Carroll county
                    , from 1820 to 1823.
                George Cicott traded with the Pottawattamies, at a village of that tribe on the north bank of the
                        Wabash, nearly opposite the last named
                    place, from 1820 to 1823, and then till 1827 on his reserve near 
                        Georgetown
                    .
                
                Edward McCartney traded with both tribes, on the north and south banks of the Wabash, about a mile below the present town of 
                        Logansport
                    , from about 1820 to 1828.
                Hollister and Hunt traded, mostly with the Miamis, at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , from about 1820 to 1828.
                John B. Godfrey and James Peltier traded at the same place, during about the same period, as the last
                    named.
                William G. and George W. Ewing, brothers, traded at the same place, from 1822 to 1828, and continued
                    the trade afterwards—the former at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     till 1845, and the latter at 
                        Logansport
                     till 1838.
                John D. Doure traded at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     from 1822 to 1828. Barnet and Hanna traded at the same place from 1824 to 1828. Hanna
                    and Hamilton traded at the same place from 1825 to 1830.
                John B. Jutrace traded with the Pottawattamies at a spot about three miles southwardly of the present
                    town of 
                        Plymouth
                    , from about 1825 to about 1835.
                David Burr traded, mostly with the Miamis, at the site of the present town of 
                        Wabash
                    , from 1826 to 1839.
                John McGregor, with the same tribe, at 
                        Miamisport
                    , near the present town of 
                        Peru
                    , from 1827 to 1834.
                Jesse Vermilya, with the same tribe, at the river Aboite, in 
                        Allen county
                    , from 1827 to 1844.
                Hugh B. McKeen, with both tribes, at the present town of 
                        Logansport
                    , from 1827 to 1828.
                Antoine Gamelin and Richard Chabert, mostly with the Pottawattamies, about a mile below the same
                    place, on the north bank of the Wabash,
                    during about the same period.
                Joseph Barron, mostly with the same tribe, a short distance below 
                        Logansport
                    , from 1827 to 1838. This trader had commenced life among the Indians on the Wabash, mostly as a clerk for the traders at an
                    early day, and acted as an able interpreter for the Government for a period of more than forty
                    years. He was one of the interpreters at the celebrated council at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1810, between Tecumseh and Governor Harrison, and is said to have contributed much
                    to their reconciliation by correctly giving the language of Tecumseh, which had been misinterpreted
                    by another. His biography alone, if fully written, would  furnish
                    a very interesting chapter in the history of the country, as would indeed many of those already
                    named; but a brief reference, only, can be made of them in this short sketch.
                Chauncy Carter traded with both tribes at 
                        Logansport
                     from 1828 to 1830.
                Francis D. Lasselle traded with the Miamis on White
                    River, and at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , from 1828 to 1836.
                Allen Hamilton and Cyrus Taber—the former at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , the latter at 
                        Logansport
                    —traded with both tribes from about 1828 to 1838. This firm, and that of W. G. &
                    G. W. Ewing, above mentioned, carried on the trade much more extensively than any other of the
                    modern traders, and by means of its profits and dealings in lands amassed much wealth.
                Charles Conway traded with the Miamis, at 
                        Miamisport
                    , near the present site of 
                        Peru
                    , from 1829 to 1832.
                Henry Ossem and Richard Chabret traded with the Potta-wattamies at Turkey-creek Prairie, in 
                        Kosciusko county
                    , from 1830 to 1835.
                William S. Edsall, with the Miamis, at 
                        Huntington
                    , from 1834 to 1837.
                Alexander Wilson with the same tribe, at 
                        Peru
                    , from 1834 to 1845.
                Daniel R. Bearss, with the same tribe, at the same place, from 1834 to 1857.
                Moses Folk, with the same tribe, at the same place, from 1839 to 1857.
                James T. Miller, with the same tribe, at the same place, from 1836 to 1857.
                The Pottawattamies having been removed to the west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , in the year 1838, and the main part of the Miamis in 1845, the trade has been
                    gradually diminishing since the former period, so that now it is confined in a limited extent to the
                    Miamis, who inhabit their reservations in the country lying south of the Wabash, between the towns of 
                        Peru
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Indeed it may be said that the Indian trade proper, that is, the
                    traffic with them for furs and peltries, has ceased to exist since the part removal of the Miamis,—a
                    tribe which, as they were the first known inhabitants of the country embraced within the limits of
                    the State, are the latest survivors of all  their red
                    cotemporaries, and which, by their general good character and condition, bear testimony that they
                    have not materially degenerated by a long intercourse with their ancient friends and patrons, the
                    old Indian Traders.
                NOTES.
                
                    Nothing known of this trader. The locality of his trading place would be in 
                            Washington county
                        , near the town of 
                            Fredericksburg
                        .
                    This 
                            Terrehaute
                         was inhabited by the Weah branch of the Miamis, and was situated near the present
                        town of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , which was named after it.
                    Properly Buck-ong-a-he-las, so called after the chief of the Delawares, on the head waters of
                            White river, and probably near the
                        present town of Muncietown. The true name of this trader is believed to be—Simon; that of
                        L'Espagnol [Spaniard] being a nickname.
                    Nothing known of this trader. The Kickapoos had several villages on and near the Vermillion
                        rivers in 
                            Vermillion county
                        . This was probably the principal one, in which the Chief resided, who was called by
                        the traders Jose Renard [Joe the Fox], the same who led the attack on Ft. Harrison in 1812.
                    Kankakee, on the river of that name; but its location unknown.
                    This place is supposed to have been on the 
                            Mississippi
                        , in Lower 
                            Illinois
                        , as the Delawares also inhabited that part of the country. This trader afterwards
                        traded at 
                            Chepaille
                        .
                    This trader continued to trade here until his death in 1806. This place, pronounced Shepoy,
                        was on the Wabash river, in 
                            Warren county
                        , about a mile above the present town of Independence.
                    
                        
                            Kaskaskia
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        .
                    The locality of this place is unknown. He afterwards traded at Fort Harrison in 1815-20.
                    An old trader on the Miami of the Lake. These places were in 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    This trader afterwards (from about 1803 to 1809) traded at 
                            Ft. Wayne
                        , and kept pack horses and a warehouse for the deposit and transportation of
                        merchandise and peltries in transit at the portage between the Miami and the Wabash. The Locality  of Cœur de Serf, properly Cœur de Cerf [elk's heart], was on the
                            Elkhart river.
                    This trader (late Gen. H. L., of 
                            Logansport
                        ), was born at the village of Ke-ki-ong-a in 1777, from which, as before mentioned,
                        his father was obliged to flee on La Balme's expedition in 1780. He returned to the Wabash in 1795, and traded at 
                            Chepaille
                        , at the mouth of the Little Vermillion, at Mississinnewa, and at 
                            Vincennes
                        . This trading place (Mississinnewa) was at the settlement or village of the late
                        Chief Godfrey, a few miles above 
                            Peru
                        .
                    This trader and his trading place are both unknown to the writer.
                    An old trader; he also traded with the Miamis in 1807. When the hostilities commenced with the
                        Indians in 1811, nearly all the traders offered their valuable services as scouts or soldiers in
                        the defense of the country. Mr. Besayon, having with others joined Colonel Hopkin's expedition
                        up the Wabash in 1812, was in the
                        detachment of about seventy mounted men which fell into the ambuscade of about 500 Indians in
                        the ravines of the Wild Cat, called by the survivors "Spur's Defeat" (about seven miles
                        northeastwardly from the present town of 
                            Lafayette
                        ). He was captured in the retreat by the Indians, who, well knowing him, and
                        regarding him as a kind of traitor to them, condemned him at once to the most cruel of
                        deaths—the faggot and stake. They bound him to a tree, piled combustible material about him, to
                        which they set fire, and were proceeding to enact the scenes of triumph and torture usual upon
                        such occasions; but a young warrior who yet regarded him with affection, and desiring to relieve
                        him from so horrid a fate, hastily snatched up a rifle and shot him dead. Eel creek, on which he
                        traded, is now the Eel river which empties into
                            White river, but the locality of his
                        trading place is unknown.
                    John and William Conner, brothers, were old traders, and were prominent men in their day.
                        William, especially, rendered much service as interpreter and otherwise at several treaties with
                        the Indians. Petchepencues was probably intended for Ponceaupichou, or, as sometimes called,
                        Ponce-passu, the old name of Wild Cat creek, on the head waters of which some of  the Delawares lived.* The other village is,
                        properly, Buck-ong-a-he-las, before mentioned.
                    This village of 
                            Tippecanoe
                         was on the Wabash, a few
                        miles below the mouth of the Tippecanoe river.
                    The site of the present Shawneetown, on the Ohio, in 
                            Illinois
                        .
                    In 
                            Massac county
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        .
                    This trader traded in 1804 with the Kickapoos on the 
                            Vermillion
                        , and at Fort Harrison after the war. It is suggested that the name of this trading
                        place thus given is a mistake, and should read Renard, a Kickapoo village, so called after their
                        Chief, [Note 4.]
                    Nothing known of this trader. His trading place was on what is now called Little river, a head
                        stream of the Wabash.
                    In the present State of 
                            Michigan
                        .
                    Also in 
                            Michigan
                        .
                    Kankakee.
                    In 
                            Michigan
                        .
                    The 
                            St. Joseph
                         of Lake
                    Michigan.
                
            
            
                WILD ANIMALS OF 
                        INDIANA
                    .
                Apropos to Mr. Lasselle's article on the old fur traders, the editor recalls a small account book and
                    a number of other papers that came to his notice some time since. These records, dated 1859, were
                    left by A. B. Cole, of 
                        Noblesville
                    , an agent who purchased of local trappers and transferred his peltries to the Ewing fur
                    company, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . What animals contributed to this branch of commerce, together with their comparative
                    numbers and values, is shown by these old leaflets, of which the following is a sample:
                Invoice of furs and peltries sold Ewing, Walker & Co., by Conner, Stevenson & Cole:
                
                    
                        ∗Mr. Lasselle errs here. The Conner trading post was on White
                            river, four miles below the present site of 
                            Noblesville
                        .—Editor.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        2795 First lot raccoon skins
                        $1,871 00
                    
                    
                        184 Second lot raccoon skins
                        89 00
                    
                    
                        259 Third lot raccoon skins
                        46 62
                    
                    
                        102 First lot fox skins
                        76 50
                    
                    
                        18 Second lot fox skins
                        7 00
                    
                    
                        48 First lot wildcat skins
                        36 00
                    
                    
                        3 First lot wolf skins
                        1 50
                    
                    
                        943 First lot deer skins
                        707 25
                    
                    
                        112 Winter and towhead skins
                        35 00
                    
                    
                        75 Spotted fawn skins
                        15 00
                    
                    
                        802 First lot mink skins
                        601 50
                    
                    
                        182 Second lot mink skins
                        68 25
                    
                    
                        142 Third lot mink skins
                        17 75
                    
                    
                        1 Cub bear skin
                        2 50
                    
                    
                        1 Second quality fisher skin
                        1 00
                    
                    
                        13 Otter (best) skins
                        104 00
                    
                    
                          Total
                        $3,679 87
                    
                
                According to this invoice, raccoon, deer and mink skins were considerably in excess of any other
                    kind. The deer hair was of little use, the value being in the skin, which was extensively utilized
                    for wearing apparel and other purposes. The raccoon and similar furs were largely made into felt and
                    used for a species of hat which went by the name of beaver.
                How abundantly our forests teemed with fur-bearing animals will be apparent when we reflect that for
                    nearly a century and a half the fur trade, with its insatiable demands, invaded the territory and
                    carried on the process of extermination. During the French occupancy pirogues of the Canadian
                    wood-rangers carried hence untold thousands of bales of skins. After them the Mackinaw Company, the
                    American Fur Company and John Jacob Astor extended their traffic into this region, drawing to 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Canada
                    , by way of the Wabash, vast
                    quantities of beaver, otter and other less valuable peltries. Yet later (in the twenties) the houses
                    of G. W. and W. G. Ewing were established at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , and these houses, extending their agencies through the State, assumed considerable
                    proportions. These two brothers are said to have amassed fortunes that aggregated about two million
                    dollars.
                The persistency with which many of the native fauna clung to their once wild haunts long after
                    civilization supplanted the  wilderness is worthy of note. In
                    Indiana wolves have been reported from various localities within the last few years; the Canadian
                    lynx has been killed in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and 
                        Montgomery counties
                     within the last twenty years; wildcats were occasionally seen in 
                        Franklin county
                     as late as 1869, and doubtless much later in some parts of the State; a bear was found
                    in 
                        LaGrange county
                     in 1876, and deer have been seen much later. The same is true of the otter and the
                    badger. The red fox is still hunted.
                The late George W. Pitts, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who during the thirties and forties trapped and hunted extensively along
                        White river, has stated to the writer that the larger and rarer animals
                    were driven out of 
                        Marion county
                     and the adjoining territory at a comparatively early date. Wolves, he said, had
                    disappeared by 1835; the latest bear he knew of was seen in 1838; his father shot a catamount about
                    1828. The latter animal was very rare at that date, but wildcats remained until the early forties.
                    Deer were shot as late as 1847; porcupines he remembered seeing in 1835; beavers, once plentiful
                    here, according to him, were extinct by 1830. Beaver at that time led all other pelts in value,
                    being worth from $6 to $10. Otter came next, bringing $2.50 to $3; but a decade or so later otter
                    rose to $10 or $12, by reason of the Russian demand for our best furs.
                An odd and somewhat ludicrous wolf trap was described to the writer by Mr. Pitts. A hollow shell of a
                    tree was selected and a hole large enough to admit a wolf's head cut three or four feet from the
                    ground. From the hole downward a slot was made wide enough for the animal's neck to slip down. By
                    way of bait, blood was smeared about the opening and a piece of meat placed in the hollow of the
                    tree. The wolf, in his efforts to get at the meat, thrust his head in at the hole, and, his neck
                    slipping down the slot, was held as if in a stanchion. The rearing up again with his head in the
                    tree was a difficult if not impossible feat.
                Another trap, much used by the Indians, was made of such materials as the woods afforded, and was at
                    once simple and effective. A number of sticks were driven in the ground to form a semi-circular pen,
                    at the open end of which were placed two forks or crotches, one on either side. A pole was laid on
                    these forks and another on the ground directly beneath, forming a kind of sill across the entrance
                    to the pen. The next feature  was a heavy pole, or small log, for
                    a deadfall. This was suspended from a piece of grapevine or strip of linden bark, which, passing up
                    over the pole in the forks, was looped over a trigger. This trigger was simply a light stick, which
                    reached down to a third small pole placed against the sides of the forked posts near the ground,
                    which, preventing the weights from pulling the trigger over the top pole, was in turn held in place
                    by the pressure of the trigger. The bait was placed in the pen. The game, venturing in at the
                    entrance, his foot or body pressed down the small pole over which he must step; the trigger was
                    released and the deadfall quickly pinned him to the sill on the ground. These traps would be made of
                    any dimensions, and for all sizes of game, from rabbits to bears.
            
            
                SQUIRREL "BURGOO."
                THE following description of an old-time squirrel "burgoo" I was gleaned by a newspaper reporter some
                    years since from Samuel Corbaley, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    :
                "I was born in 
                        Wayne
                     township in 1834, and can remember when, in the early forties, the squirrels (black and
                    gray) were so plentiful they almost destroyed the young corn. I think it was the spring of '43 that
                    my father's neighbors proposed to kill all the squirrels around his farm if he would furnish the
                    bread for a burgoo. A day was appointed, and corn bread enough for a small army baked by my mother
                    and the neighbor women. Three large iron sugar kettles, filled with water, were hung up near a
                    spring. Beverly Ballard, a Kentuckian, was appointed chief cook. The neighbors, with rifles,
                    approached the farm from every direction, and there was a continuous fusillade until 10 o'clock,
                    when, by agreement, the hunters met, and threw down not less than two hundred squirrels. As they
                    were skinned and washed, they were handed over to the cook for boiling. Then followed a feast. Soup
                    was served in tin cups; squirrels were taken out whole with pointed sticks, and corn pone was served
                    with soup made hot with home-raised pepper.
                "After dinner the targets were set up and there was a test as to the best shot; and many times the
                    center was hit at a distance of twenty, forty and fifty yards."
            
            
            
                MEMOIR OF DAVID HOOVER.
                [David Hoover was one of the first and best known of the pioneers of the upper Whitewater. As is
                    related below, he penetrated to the spot where 
                        Richmond
                     now stands and settled there in 1806; was the original surveyor of the town when it was
                    founded, and gave the place its name. It may be added that he was a citizen of the county for sixty
                    years, and occupied various public trusts, being successively justice of the peace, associate judge
                    of the 
                        Wayne County
                     Circuit Court, and clerk of that court. The latter office he held nearly fourteen
                    years. His memoir, not intended for publication originally, was printed in pamphlet form in 1857, by
                    Mr. Isaac H. Julian. Very few of these pamphlets are now in existence and a special interest may
                    attach to the reprinting of the memoir by reason of the centennial anniversary of the settlement of 
                        Wayne county
                    , which occurs this spring.—Editor.]
                
                    I THINK it is Lawrence Sterne who says that—among other things which he
                    mentions—every person should write a book; and as I have not yet done that, I am now going' to write
                    one. As it has always been interesting to me to read biographical sketches, and historical
                    reminiscences of bygone days, I have concluded that some information concerning myself and family,
                    might, perhaps, amuse some of my descendants, at least. The name is pretty extensively scattered
                    throughout this country; such information may therefore be of some interest to them, as it may
                    enable them to trace back their genealogy to the original stock.
                I was born on a small water-course, called Huwaree, a branch of the Yadkin river, in 
                        Randolph county
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , on the 14th day of April, 1781; and am now in the seventy-third year of my age. It is
                    customary, in personal sketches of this kind, to say something of one's parents and education. I can
                    only say, that my parents were always considered very exemplary in all their walk through life. As
                    to education, my opportunities were exceedingly limited; and had it not been for my inclination and
                    perseverance, I should, in all probability, at this day be numbered among those who can scarcely
                    write their names, or perhaps should only be able to make a "X," in placing my signature to a
                    written instrument. In order to show the state of society in my early youth, as an evidence of the
                    intelligence of the  circle in which I was raised, I can say of a
                    truth, that I never had an opportunity of reading a newspaper, nor did I ever see a bank-note, until
                    after I was a man grown.
                As to my ancestors, I know but little. If my information is correct, my grandfather, Andrew Hoover,
                    left 
                        Germany
                     when a boy; married Margaret Fouts, in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; and settled on Pipe creek in 
                        Maryland
                    . There my father was born; and from thence, now about one hundred years ago, he removed
                    to 
                        North Carolina
                    , then a new country. He left eight sons and five daughters, all of whom had large
                    families. Their descendants are mostly scattered through what we call the Western country. Rudolph
                    Waymire, my grandfather on my mother's side, emigrated from 
                        Hanover
                     in 
                        Germany
                    , after he had several children. He used to brag that he was a soldier under His
                    Britannic Majesty, and that he was at the head of the battle of Dettingen in 1743. He left one son
                    and seven daughters by his first wife. Their descendants are also mostly to be found in this
                    country.
                My father had a family of ten children, four sons and six daughters. In order to better our
                    circumstances, he came to the conclusion of moving to a new country, and sold his possessions
                    accordingly. He was then worth rising of two thousand dollars; which at that time, and in that
                    country, was considered very considerably over an average in point of wealth. On the 19th of
                    September, 1802, we loaded our wagon, and wended our way toward that portion of what was then called
                    the Northwestern Territory which constitutes the present State of 
                        Ohio
                    .
                Here permit me to make a passing remark. I was then in the twenty-second year of my age. I had formed
                    an acquaintance and brought myself into notice perhaps rather more extensively than falls to the lot
                    of most country boys. Did language afford terms adequate to describe my sensations on shaking hands
                    with my youthful compeers, and giving them a final farewell, I would gladly do so. Suffice it to
                    say, that those only who have been placed in like circumstances, can appreciate my feelings on that
                    occasion. And although I have lived to be an old man, and experienced the various vicissitudes
                    attendant on a journey through life thus far, I yet look back to that time as the most interesting
                    scene through which I have passed. My mind at this day is carried back to my early associations and
                    school-boy days,  to my native hills and pine forests; and I can
                    say that there is a kind of indescribable charm in the very name of my natal spot, very different
                    from aught that pertains to any other place on the globe.
                After about five weeks' journeying, we crossed the Ohio
                        river at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , then a mere village, composed mostly of log houses. I think it was the day after an
                    election had been held at that place for delegates to the convention to form a Constitution; at any
                    rate a Constitution was formed the following winter, which was amended only within the last few
                    years. After crossing the river, we pushed on to Stillwater, about twelve miles north of 
                        Dayton
                    , in what is now the county of 
                        Montgomery
                    . A number of our acquaintances had located themselves there the previous spring. There
                    we encamped in the woods the first winter. The place had proved so unhealthy that we felt
                    discouraged and much dissatisfied, and concluded not to locate there. My father then purchased two
                    hundred acres of land, not far from 
                        Lebanon
                    , in 
                        Warren county
                    , as a home, until we could make further examinations. John Smith, afterward one of the
                    proprietors of 
                        Richmond
                    , purchased one hundred acres in the same neighborhood, with similar views. Our object
                    was to find a suitable place for making a settlement, and where but few or no entries had been made.
                    But a small portion of the land lying west of the Great Miami, or east of the Little Miami, was
                    settled at that time. We were hard to please. We Carolinians would scarcely look at the best land
                    where spring water was lacking. Among other considerations, we wished to get further south. We
                    examined divers sections of the unsettled parts of 
                        Ohio
                    , without finding any location that would please us. John Smith, Robert Hill and myself
                    partially examined the country between the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , before there was a line run in that part of the Territory; and returned much
                    discouraged, as we found nothing inviting in that quarter.
                Thus time passed on until the spring of 1806, when myself and four others, rather accidentally, took
                    a section line some eight or ten miles north of 
                        Dayton
                    , and traced it a distance of more than thirty miles, through an unbroken forest, to
                    where I am now writing. It was the last of February, or the first of March, when I first saw
                    Whitewater. On my return to my father's, I  informed him that I
                    thought I had found the country we had been in search of. Spring water, timber, and building rock
                    appeared to be abundant, and the face of the country looked delightful. In about three weeks after
                    this, my father, with several others, accompanied me to this "land of promise." As a military man
                    would say, we made a reconnoissance, but returned rather discouraged, as it
                    appeared at that time too far from home. Were it necessary, I might here state some of our views at
                    that time, which would show up our extreme ignorance of what has since taken place. On returning
                    from this trip, we saw stakes sticking among the beech trees where Eaton now stands, which was among
                    the nearest approaches of the white man to this place. With the exception of George Holman and a few
                    others, who settled some miles south of this, in the spring of 1805, there were but few families
                    within twenty miles of this place.
                It was not until the last of May or the first of June that the first entries were made. John Smith
                    then entered south of Main street, where 
                        Richmond
                     now stands, and several other tracts. My father entered the land upon which I now live,
                    I having selected it on my first trip, and several other quarter sections. About harvest of this
                    same year, Jeremiah Cox reached here from good old 
                        North Carolina
                    , and purchased where the north part of 
                        Richmond
                     now stands. If I mistake not, it had been previously entered by John Meek, the father
                    of Jesse Meek, and had been transferred to Joseph Woodkirk, of whom J. Cox made the purchase. Said
                    Cox also entered several other tracts. Jeremiah Cox, John Smith, and my father, were then looked
                    upon as rather leaders in the Society of Friends. Their location here had a tendency of drawing
                    others, and soon caused a great rush to Whitewater; and land that I thought would never be settled
                    was rapidly taken up and improved. Had I a little more vanity, I might almost claim the credit (if
                    credit it be) of having been the pioneer of the great body of Friends now to be found in this
                    region; as I think it very doubtful whether three Yearly Meetings would convene in this county, had
                    I not traced the line before mentioned.
                I was now in the twenty-fifth year of my age, and thus far had been rather a wayfaring disciple, not
                    doing much for myself  or any other person. Having now selected a
                    spot for a home, I thought the time had come to be up and doing. I therefore married a girl named
                    Catharine Yount, near the Great Miami; and on the last day of March, 1807, reached with our little
                    plunder the hill where I am now living. It may not be uninteresting here to name some of the first
                    settlers in the different neighborhoods. On the East Fork were the Flemings, Irelands, Hills,
                    Wassons, Maxwells, etc. At the mouth of Elkhorn were the Hunts, Whiteheads and Endsleys. In this
                    neighborhood were the Smiths, Coxes, Wrights and Hoovers, several of whom commenced operations in
                    the woods in the spring and summer of 1806. This may emphatically be said to have been the day of
                    "log-cabins" and log-rollings; and, although we were in an unbroken forest, without even a blazed
                    pathway from one settlement to another, we yet enjoyed a friendship, and a neighborly interchange of
                    kind offices, which are unknown at this time. Although we had to step on puncheon floors, and eat
                    our corn-bread and venison, or turkey, off of broad pieces of split timber, and drive forks in one
                    corner of our cabins, with cross timbers driven into the walls, for bedsteads, there was no
                    grumbling or complaining of low markets and hard times. The questions of Tariff and National Bank
                    were truly "obsolete ideas" in those days. It was the first week in April before some of us
                    commenced operations in the woods; but we mostly raised corn enough to do us. There was, however, no
                    mill to grind it, and for some weeks we grated all the meal we made use of. About Christmas, Charles
                    Hunt started a mill, on a cheap scale, near the mouth of Elkhorn, which did our grinding until J.
                    Cox established one near to where 
                        Richmond
                     now stands, and which now belongs to Basil Brightwell.
                The Indian boundary was at this time about three miles west of us. The Indians lived on White river, and were frequently among us. They at one
                    time packed off 400 bushels of shelled corn, which they purchased of John Smith. In 1809 a purchase
                    was made, called the "Twelve Mile Purchase,"1 and a goodly number settled on it
                    before it was surveyed; but the war of 1812 coming on, the settlers mostly left their locations, and
                    removed to places of more security. Those who remained built forts and "block houses." The settlers
                    in this neighborhood mostly stood  their ground, but suffered
                    considerably with fear. George Shugart then lived where 
                        Newport
                     now stands, some miles from any other inhabitant. In the language of the Friends, he
                    "did not feel clear" in leaving- his home, and he manfully stood his ground unmolested, except by
                    those whom we then styled the "Rangers," from whom he received some abuse for his boldness. The
                    Indians took three scalps out of this county, and stole a number of horses. Candor, however, compels
                    me to say that, as is usually the case, we Christians were the aggressors. After peace was made, in
                    1814, the twelve mile purchase settled very rapidly.
                It will not be amiss, at this stage of our narrative, to state that when we first settled here, the
                    now State of Indiana was called Indiana Territory, and we belonged to 
                        Dearborn county
                    , which embraced all the territory purchased from the Indians at the treaty of
                    Greenville, extending- from the mouth of the Kentucky river to Fort Recovery. The counties of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     were afterwards formed out of the northern part of this territory. Although Governor
                    Harrison had the appointing power, he gave the people the privilege of choosing their own officers.
                    An election was accordingly held, when it was found that Peter Fleming, Jeremiah Meek and Aaron
                    Martin were elected Judges, George Hunt, Clerk, and John Turner, Sheriff. County courts were then
                    held by three associate judges, and county business was done before them. One of the first courts
                    held in this county, under the Territorial government, convened under the shade of a tree, on the
                    premises then belonging to Richard Rue, Esq., Judge Park presiding and James Noble prosecutor. In
                    order to show the legal knowledge we backwoodsmen were then in possession of, I will relate the
                    following case. A boy was indicted for stealing a knife, a traverse jury was empaneled, and took
                    their seats upon a log. The indictment was read, and, as usuual, set out that the offender, with force and arms, did feloniously steal, take, and carry away, etc. After hearing
                    the case, the jury retired to another log to make up their verdict. Jeremiah Cox, one of the jurors,
                    and afterwards a member of the convention to frame a Constitution, and of the Legislature, concluded
                    they must find the defendant guilty, but he thought the indictment "was rather too bad for so small
                    an offense." I suppose he  thought the words "with force and
                    arms" uncalled for, and thought rightly enough, too.
                Some further illustration of our legal knowledge and the spirit of our legislation at this time may
                    be interesting. Although the Friends constituted a large portion of the inhabitants in this quarter,
                    there were in other parts of the county men in whose craniums the military spirit was pretty
                    strongly developed, before the war of 1812 was declared. When that came on, this spirit manifested
                    itself in all its rigor. The Friends were much harassed on account of their refusal to do military
                    duty. Some were drafted, and had their property sacrificed, and at the next call were again drafted,
                    and fined. Four young men were thrown into the county jail during the most inclement cold weather;
                    fire was denied them until they should comply; and had it not been for the humane feeling of David
                    F. Sackett, who handed them hot bricks through the grates, they must have suffered severely. Suits
                    were subsequently brought against the officers for false imprisonment. The trials were had at 
                        Brookville
                    , in 
                        Franklin county
                    . They all recovered damages, but I have every reason to believe that the whole of the
                    damages and costs was paid out of the moneys extorted from others of the Friends. To cap the climax
                    of absurdity and outrage, the gentlemen officers arrested an old man named Jacob Elliott, and tried
                    him by a court-martial, for treason, found him guilty, and sentenced him to be shot! but gave him a
                    chance to run away in the dark, they firing off their guns at the same time. It would fill a
                    considerable volume to give a detailed history of the noble patriots of those
                    days, and of their wisdom and valorous exploits; but this must suffice.
                Connected with this subject, permit me a word respecting my own course. I think it is well known that
                    from first to last I stood by the Friends like a brother (as I would again do under similar
                    circumstances), and used my influence in their favor; yet from some cause, best known to themselves,
                    I have apparently lost the confidence and friendship of a good number of them. The most serious
                    charge which has yet reached me, is that I have not got "the true faith," and not that I have done
                    anything wrong. Of this I do not complain; but must be permitted to say that their course towards me
                    was rather gratuitous.  I feel confident that they can not in
                    truth say that they have at any time received aught but disinterested friendship from me; and if
                    some of them can reconcile their course toward me with a sense of duty, and of doing by me as I have
                    at all times done by them, I shall therewith be content.
                In 1816 we elected delegates to the convention which formed our late Constitution, and named the
                    State Indiana. On the third day of February following, I was elected Clerk of Wayne Circuit Court,
                    and by favor of the voters of the county, held the office nearly fourteen years. I was prevented
                    from serving out my full constitutional term of office, by a deceptive ruling of the Court, which I
                    have no fears will ever be hunted up as a precedent in a similar or any other case.
                I was almost the first man who set foot in this part of 
                        Wayne county
                    , and have been an actor in it for more than forty years. It may not be out of place
                    here for me to say, that I feel conscious I often erred through ignorance, and perhaps through
                    wilfulness. Yet (and with gratitude be it spoken), it has fallen to the lot of few men to retain so
                    long the standing which I think I still have among all classes of my fellow citizens. I believe it
                    is a privilege conceded to old men to boast of what they have been, and what they have done. I shall
                    therefore take the liberty of saying, that I have now seven commissions by me, for offices which I
                    have held, besides having had a seat in the Senate of this State for six years.
                I will add, that in the employ and under the direction of John Smith and Jeremiah Cox, I laid off the
                    city of 
                        Richmond
                    , did all their clerking, wrote their deeds, etc. If I recollect rightly, it was first
                    named Smithville, after one of the properietors; but that name did not give general satisfaction.
                    Thomas Robbards, James Pegg, and myself, were then chosen to select a name for the place. Robbards
                    proposed Waterford, Pegg,Plainfield, and I made choice of 
                        Richmond
                    , which latter name received the preference of the lot-holders.
                I have some fears that the preceding remarks may be looked upon as betraying the vanity of an old
                    man; but I wish it distinctly understood, that I ascribe the little favors which I have received,
                    more to surrounding circumstances, and the partiality of my friends, than to any qualification or
                    merits in myself.
                
                There are several other subjects connected with the early history of 
                        Wayne county
                    , on which I could dwell at some length. I could refer to the first dominant party,
                    their arbitrary proceeding in fixing the county seat at 
                        Salisbury
                    , the seven years' war and contention which followed, ending with the final location of
                    the shiretown at 
                        Centreville
                    .2 But as the rival parties in that contest have mostly left the
                    stage, and the subject is almost forgotten, I think it unnecessary to disturb it.
                A lengthy chapter might be written on the improvements which have been made within the last fifty
                    years in 
                        Wayne county
                     (to say nothing of the rest of the world), in the arts and sciences generally, but as I
                    do not feel myself competent to the task, I shall not attempt it.
                And now, in bringing this crude and undigested account of my experience to a close, short as it is,
                    it gives rise to many serious reflections. When I look back upon the number of those who set out in
                    life with me, full of hope, and who have fallen by the way, and gone to that bourne from whence
                    there is no returning, with not even a rude stone to mark the spot where their mortal remains are
                    deposited, language fails me, and indeed there is no language adequate to the expression of my
                    feelings. I shall therefore drop the subject, leaving the reader to fill up the blank in his own
                    way.
                In conclusion, let me say a word about my politics and religion. In politics, I profess to belong to
                    the Jeffersonian school. I view Thomas Jefferson as decidedly the greatest statesman that America
                    has yet produced. He was the chief apostle of both Political and Religious Liberty. My motto is
                    taken from his first Inaugural: "Equal and exact justice to all men" — and I will add—without
                    calling in question their political or religious faith, country, or color.
                And here I wish it distinctly understood, and remembered, that I stood almost alone in this section
                    of the State, in opposition to our ruinous system of internal improvements, concocted and brought
                    about at the sessions of the Legislature in the years 1835 to 1836; which resulted in the creation
                    of a State debt which the present generation will not see paid; and which has verified the text in
                    the old Book to the very letter, which says that the iniquities of the fathers are visited upon
                    their children to the third and fourth generations.
                
                As to religion: 
                        Happy is he, the only happy man, Who, from choice, does all the good he
                            can.
                    
                
                "The world is my country, and my religion is to do right." I am a firm believer in the Christian
                    religion, though not as lived up to by most of its professors of the present day. In the language of
                    Jefferson, I look upon the "Christian philosophy as the most sublime and benevolent, but most
                    perverted system that ever shone on man." I have no use for the priesthood, nor can I abide the
                    shackles of sectarian dogmas. I see no necessity for confessions of faith, creeds, forms and
                    ceremonies. In the most comprehensive sense of the word, I am opposed to all wars, and to slavery;
                    and trust the time is not far distant when they will be numbered among the things that were, and
                    viewed as we now look back upon some of the doings of what we are pleased to style the dark ages.
                Note 1.—Among the first settlers of the twelve mile purchase, rather in the vicinity of Centreville,
                    were Danial Noland, Henry Bryan, Isaac Julian, William Harvey, Nathan Overman, George Grimes, etc.
                    Other pioneers, whose names I can not now recall, were thinly scattered over other portions of the
                    "purchase."—I. H. J.
                Note 2.—The county seat was finally established at 
                        Centreville
                     in April, 1820. The first court held in 
                        Wayne county
                    , as appears from the records, met at the home of Richard Rue, February, 1811. 
                        Wayne county
                     was organized in November, 1810.
                JUDGE HOOVER'S RECORD AS TO LIBERTY OF CONSCIENCE, PEACE AND FREEDOM.
                Appended to his Memoir, Judge Hoover copied the following Memorial and postscript, prepared and
                    subscribed by him at an early period of our history, which he seemed to think should go with it, as
                    showing more positively his position in regard to the matters referred to in the same. It may with
                    propriety be added, that at an early day in this county, Anti-Slavery and Peace Societies were
                    formed, of which Judge Hoover, Elder David Purviance, and other prominent citizens in various parts
                    of the county, were leading members:
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    To William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Territory, the
                                        Legislative Council, and House of Representatives, at 
                                            Vincennes
                                         met:
                                
                                The Memorial of the Society of Friends of the said Territory respectfully represents:
                                That few if any of the present members of the Legislature, we presume, are altogether
                                    unacquainted with the conscientious scruples of Friends against bearing arms, or
                                    acting in any manner as military men, ever since they became a religious society.
                                    And considering the penalties and sufferings they have heretofore been subject to on
                                    that account, there is no room left to suppose that their declining to act in that
                                    capacity proceeded from obstinacy, or a disregard to the laws of their country. They
                                    conceive that, notwithstanding they have always declined the use of the sword, they
                                    have not been useless citizens; and that the indulgence which has been granted to
                                    conscientious people in other governments, has not in any manner been prejudicial to
                                    the real interest of those countries, but rather that it has been a means of
                                    inducing useful citizens to settle and improve various parts thereof. Nor does it
                                    admit of a doubt, that penal laws, designed to force people to act in violation of
                                    what they believe to be their duty to their Maker, never did and never will promote
                                    the true interest and safety of any country. And although heavy fines have
                                    heretofore in some cases been impressed for non-attendance of musters, and often
                                    doubled by unreasonable seizures, to the great distress of some poor families; yet
                                    it seems hardly probable that the public have been much, if at all, benefited by
                                    these extortions. Your memorialists, therefore, can not suppose that it can be a
                                    desirable object with a free and enlightened people, to subject any denomination of
                                    Christians to penalties and sufferings, either in their persons or property, on
                                    account of their religious opinions, which can never be injurious to the country at
                                    large, or to any individual. All of which we submit to the Legislature, that they
                                    may make such amendment of the present militia laws as to them may seem reasonable
                                    and just.
                                And your Memorialists, etc.
                                P. S.—The laws subjecting the Quakers to fines for not mustering were repealed; but
                                    after the battle of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    , they were, re-enacted with a vengeance.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                OLD SETTLERS' MEETING.
                [Extract from an account of the first Settlers' Meeting in 
                        Wayne county
                    , and probably the first in the State, taken from the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Jeffersonian of September 13, 1855.]
                PRESIDENT, David Hoover; vice-presidents, Smith Hunt and L John Peele. After prayer, some
                    interesting-portions of the proceeding's of the first Board of Commissioners of 
                        Wayne county
                    , dating as far back as 1817, were read, which were illustrated by relations of divers
                    incidents of those early days by Messrs. Rariden, Test, Newman, and others.
                John Beard, of 
                        Milton
                    , was then called on for his "experience." He gave an account of his removal to this
                    region, and the gratification he felt in exchanging the red soil, full of flint stones, of his
                    native Carolina, for the black and fertile lands of Indiana. In the vigor of youth, he regarded not
                    the Herculean labors and hardships which then rose before him, for, to use his own words, he "felt
                    that he had a fortune in his own bones." He declared that, although looking back from the present
                    time the lives of the pioneers might appear by no means enviable, yet they did not so seem to these
                    who experienced them. Mr. Beard added, among other interesting facts, that a little daughter of his
                    own was the first white person who died in the present limits of 
                        Wayne county
                     (in 1807); and that the first settlers had to go either to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     or 
                        Hamilton
                     to mill.
                Mr. Beard was followed in similar details of experience by Smith Hunt, Henry and Frederick Hoover,
                    John Peele, Jeremiah L. Meek, and others.
                Perhaps both the oldest man and the oldest settler present was Hugh Cull.
                The next meeting is appointed for the last Sunday in September, 1856, at 
                        Centreville
                    . The idea of such meetings is highly laudable, and we trust that hereafter, due efforts
                    will be made to enlist the interest and presence of as many of the early settlers as possible, so as
                    the more effectually to further the objects proposed by these social reunions of the rapidly
                    diminishing remnant of the men and women to whom the present generation are so much indebted.
            
            
            
                EARLY INDIANAPOLIS.
                THE FLETCHER PAPERS.
                [In 1879 there was published in The 
                            Indianapolis
                         News a series of articles by the Rev. J. C. Fletcher on Early Days in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These papers, some twenty-five in number, were printed at intervals from March to
                    September, making, in the aggregate, an amount of matter wholly beyond the limits of the space to be
                    spared in this magazine. Much of this matter was second-hand, and a repetition of facts that had
                    already been published in the city histories. On the other hand, not a little of it was based upon
                    two documents of antiquarian value, which are to the present day kept in private possession as
                    being, in the main, of family interest only. These are the journals of Mr. Calvin Fletcher, the
                    elder, and his wife, which record happenings in the new capital at a very early day. These journals,
                    where quoted directly or where drawn upon, afford glimpses of life, society, conditions and events
                    that are wholly fresh and a distinct contribution to the source material of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history. Such matter as has, in my judgment, this distinct value, I have selected from
                    the series, making free with the text in the matter of abridgement. The student who may wish to make
                    use of the full text, may do so by aid of the references given. The full series may be found in
                    issues of the above paper for March 10, 15, 22, 29; April 4, 12, 19, 26; May 10, 17, 24; June 7, 14,
                    21, 28; July 5, 12, 19, 26; August 2, 9, 16, 25; September 10, 19. The portions selected will
                    probably run throughout this year.—Editor.]
                
                    First Religious Items—First Sale of Lots—First Frame House—First Private Libraries—The
                        "Collins Axe"—Judge McIlvaine's Cotton Crop—Pioneer Industry—Tallow and Culture—Social
                        Life—Christmas Party and Barrel of Cider—New Year's Ball, the First Great Social Event.
                
                
                    From the News of March 10, 1879.
                
                IN perusing, recently, a brief diary kept by my mother (who died in 1854) I found several interesting
                    religious facts and data in connection with the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                My father was married to Sarah Hill, in 
                        Urbana
                    , 
                        O.
                    , May 1, 1821. He made a preliminary visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August of that year. On September 19, accompanied by my mother, he began his second
                    journey to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , arriving here in nine days. On the first day of October he rented a log cabin on block
                    70, lot No. 2. In my father's journal, date of Dec. 31, 1821, I find this entry: 
                
                "I am now situated on block 70, lot No. 2, in a little cabin, 16 x 17 feet, belonging to a Mr. Cap,
                    of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ."
                It was here that my mother began the brief diary referred to. The persons most frequently mentioned
                    in the diary are Mr. James Blake, Mr. and Mrs. Paxton, Dr. Coe, Mr. and Mrs. Nowland, Mrs. Bates,
                    the Hawkins's, B. F. Morris, Dr. Dunlap, the Bradleys, the Yandes's, and Judge and Mrs. Wick.
                These are the religious data I have spoken of: 
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Sunday, Nov. 18, 1821. I attended prayer-meeting at Mr. Stevens'.
                                "Sunday, Nov. 25. I attended preaching at Mr. Hawkins', where I heard a very good
                                    sermon by a Newlight minister. The text was: ‘See that ye walk circumspectly, not as
                                    fools but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil.’
                                "Sunday, Dec. 30. I heard a sermon delivered by a Newlight minister which I did not
                                    think commendable, but we must allow for it, as it has not been but about three
                                    months since he began to speak in public.
                                "Sunday, May 12, 1822. I attended preaching in the Governor's Circle. It was the
                                    first sermon ever delivered at that place. Rev. Mr. Proctor took his text from the
                                    30th chapter of Proverbs, and 17th verse: ‘Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and
                                    all her paths are peace.’ In the afternoon he delivered another sermon from Luke
                                    XV:7: ‘I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner who
                                    repenteth.’ The preacher is a Presbyterian and a very good orator.
                                "Tuesday, 14th. In the morning it rained and in the afternoon it was clear but muddy.
                                    Mr. Fletcher attended preaching at the schoolhouse. The sermon was delivered by Mr.
                                    Proctor, who took for his text Ps. 42, 1st verse: ‘As the hart panteth after the
                                    water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God!’
                                "Monday, the 20th of May. Rainy and disagreeable. Rev. Mr. Proctor, Dr. Coe, Mr.
                                    Linton, Mr. Fletcher and myself all dined at Mr. Nowland's.
                                "Tuesday, 21st. I rode (horseback) out in the country about two miles to Mr. Burton's
                                    with Mr. Paxton and Mrs. Nowland.
                                May 28th. This day we moved into Mr. Blake's house∗ and took
                                    possession for one year.
                                
                                    
                                        ∗On Washington street west of 
                                            Illinois
                                        .
                                
                                
                                "Friday, 31st. This day Mr. Fletcher started on the circuit.∗ We
                                    arose early in the morning. It was quite pleasing to hear the birds. How cheerfully
                                    they sung! Their notes were so mingled that a person could not distinguish one bird
                                    from another. This day Mr. Rice, a Presbyterian preacher, and Dr. Coe dined with Mr.
                                    Blake and myself.
                                "Sunday, 9th June. Mrs. Wick and I attended Methodist preaching.
                                "Sunday, 16th June. In the morning Mr. Blake went to Sabbath school.†
                                "Sunday, 12th July. This day attended Baptist preaching at the schoolhouse. ∗ ∗ ∗
                                    Camp meeting commenced the 13th day of September and held four days.‡
                                "Sunday, April 15th, 1823. Our school commenced, which, I hope, will be of great
                                    benefit to the children of our town."§
                            
                        
                    
                
                I find three funerals recorded in my mother's journal, as follows:
                "Sunday, March 24, 1822. Attended a funeral and a burial.‖ I did not see a single tear shed in the
                    whole assemblage, except by Mrs. Nowland, when she showed me where her child was buried.
                "Sunday, 12th of July, 1822. This day Mr. Jones departed this life, about 8 o'clock in the morning. ∗
                    ∗ ∗ He is to be buried this afternoon.
                "Monday, November 11, ('22). About two o'clock p. m. Mr. Nowland departed this life, and, it was
                    said, very happily. He said he ‘had made his peace with God, and was willing to go.’
                "Tuesday, November 12. Rev. Mr. Proctor delivered a very pathetic sermon on the occasion [of Mr.
                    Nowland's burial]. His text was: ‘It is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of
                    feasting.’"
                
                    Under the old constitution, the president circuit judge held courts over an extensive
                        territory, and it was a custom of the lawyers to travel with him throughout the judicial
                            circuit.—Editor.
                    †The first mention of a Sabbath school in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .—J. C. F.
                    
                    ‡Was not this the first camp meeting held in 
                            Marion county
                        ?—J. C. F.
                    
                    §This doubtless refers to the re-commencing of the Sunday-school begun June 26, 1822.—J. C. F.
                    
                    ‖Who the person buried was I have no means of knowing.—J. C. F.
                    
                
                
                
                    From the News of April 4.
                
                On the 8th of October, 1821, 
                        Indianapolis
                     was to have her first great gathering. It was on that day that the sale of lots of the
                    newly laid out capital took place. Carter's and Hawkins' tavern, Nowland's and other boarding houses
                    were crowded. In her journal Mrs. Calvin Fletcher wrote:
                "October 8, 1821. The sale of lots commenced near our house. A large concourse of people were
                    present."
                This could not have been far from Washington and 
                        Missouri
                     streets, as block 70, lot 2, is west of 
                        Missouri
                    , on the south side of Washington. The sale, as my father once informed me, began upon a
                    day that was overcast and gloomy. The wind was high, and while the auctioneer was urging the bidding
                    a limb was wrenched from its place in the trees overhead, and one of the bystanders came near being
                    killed. The sales continued for a week, and no less than 313 lots were disposed of. The total which
                    these slices of 
                        Indianapolis
                     amounted to was $35,596.25, but the cash payment received at the time by the agent was
                    only 20 per cent., the remaining four-fifths to be paid in four annual instalments. The average
                    price of lots was about $113. The highest priced one was that on the northwest corner of Washington
                    and 
                        Delaware
                     streets, which brought $500. It is probable that the price paid was owing to the fact
                    that the court house was to be built on the opposite square and it would be valuable as a tavern or
                    dram shop site.∗
                
                In his journal, date of October 1, 1821, my father says: "I found the place very sickly," but it
                    appears that after the week of the sale everything put on a better face. My mother speaks of the
                    beauty of the Indian summer. Much of the bright foliage, however, was not to be stripped by the
                    blasts, for the woods were resounding with the stroke of the ax and the crash of falling trees.
                The favorite ax of those days was the "Collins ax," manufactured at 
                        Hartford
                    , Conn. It seemed to me very strange in after years to find in the great valley of the
                    Amazon that there was one American manufacture which Sheffield and Birmingham could not drive out.
                    The Indian of the Amazon cleaves his way through matted jungles with a "machete" made by Collins
                    & Co., 
                        
                            ∗Ignatus Brown says $560 for this lot. The site has been for years and
                            is now occupied by a saloon.—Editor.
                        
                    
                     while the knife and hatchet, and the instrument with which he
                    grubs up the ipecacuanha, are all manufactured by the same house which, more than a half-century
                    ago, furnished the axes that chopped down the trees in the streets of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                Cabins arose as if by magic, and one man, Colonel Paxton, had the audacity to begin a frame house on
                    the south side of Washington street (near 
                        Illinois
                    ). This building, before it was finished, was sold to Mr. James Blake. My father and
                    mother were to be the first occupants, and here my brothers, Elijah and Miles, and myself were born.
                    The main body of this magnificent residence was one story high, and consisted of two rooms, neither
                    of which could have been more than fifteen feet square, connected by a covered space with a kitchen.
                    My mother in her journal speaks of moving from their smoky cabin to this frame house in May, 1822,
                    while my father has left in his diary a copy of the agreement by which he rented the house from Mr.
                    Blake. As it illustrates the prices of board and rent at that day I copy the contract. It sets forth
                    that:
                "The said Blake convenants and agrees to give to the said Fletcher possession of the frame house
                    standing on block 67, lot 12, as soon as it shall be fixed convenient for a family to dwell therein,
                    together with the said lot, which the said Fletcher is to have and enjoy for the term of one year
                    from and after the time he takes possession. In consideration of the above premises he, the said
                    Fletcher, is to board the said Blake during the year, ∗ ∗ ∗ and the said Blake
                    is to give the said Fletcher ten bushels of corn as a further consideration of board; and the said
                    Blake is to have the privilege of the east room of said house in common with said Fletcher, together
                    with the stable and said lot."
                Colonel Blake was the first in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to have a non-professional collection of miscellaneous works that might be called a
                    library. My father and Mr. Merrill were next in the list with literary works, Mr. Merrill's
                    collection being the larger. Goldsmith's "Animated Nature" and the "Arabian Nights' Entertainments"
                    were the first books, except the Bible, read to me by my mother, that made an impression upon me.
                
                    From the News of April 12.
                
                In October, 1821, there were three weeks of beautiful weather, and my mother says in her journal,
                    under the date of October 27:
                
                "This day is very pleasant and rather smoky. It appears like Indian summer. We have had very little
                    rain in this place for about three weeks. This has made it very favorable for those who have moved
                    in and are building."
                Under such circumstances 
                        Indianapolis
                     may be said to have begun her existence. The sale of more than three hundred lots, but
                    few of which were purchased on speculation, brought hither those who were to be permanent settlers.
                    There seemed to be a most kindly disposition on the part of the people toward each other. Visits
                    were the order of the day and mutual aid was never withheld. There was not a capitalist in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —but few were even with the world—and there was not a man or woman, however exalted
                    their social position in the land whence they came, but put his or her hand to work in the frontier
                    life of the New Purchase. In her journal I find my mother writing on the 1st day of November, as
                    follows.
                "This day I was spinning wool at Mr. McIlvain's."
                This Mr. McIlvain was the earliest justice of the peace in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was an upright, Christian man, who had been associate justice in 
                        Ohio
                     and was afterward elected one of the associate judges for 
                        Marion county
                    . His log cabin stood not far from the present site of the Second Presbyterian Church.
                    One of my earliest recollections is that of a visit to Judge McIlvain's. He cultivated the ground
                    that is around the church, and produced the usual crop of corn and potatoes. He also was the first
                    to raise poultry on an extended scale. There was one crop that was unusual, and which, I presume, he
                    was the first and the last to raise in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . My father informed me that when he first came here, in the summer of 1821, he found
                    Judge James McIlvain living at the place I have indicated, and that, amongst other things he had
                    planted, was quite a large patch of cotton. This cotton came to maturity in the autumu, and served
                    the purpose, when spun, of candle wicking.
                I spoke of the alacrity with which new Indianapolitans aided each other and turned their hands to
                    everything. I give a few instances, quoting from my mother's journal:
                "November 5, 1821. Mr. Fletcher has been helping Mr. Blake husk corn." Again: "Friday, December 7. We
                    killed a beef. Mr. Paxton and Mr. Blake helped to butcher it." Again, under the date of November 24:
                    "Mrs. Nowland was making a  bonnet. She came to me to know
                    whether I could make it. I did not understand it, but gave her all the instruction I possibly
                    could." Other entries are: "I was very much engaged in trying out my tallow;" "To-day I dipped
                    candles;" "To-day I finished the ‘Vicar of Wakefield’;" and, "I commenced to read the Life of
                    Washington." There was also an inkling of a singing-school in "I borrowed of Mr. Blake a singing
                    book." There are afterwards notices of the singing-school, where all that could sing joined for
                    mutual improvement. One of the leading singers was Henry Bradley, who was one of the early pillars
                    of the Baptist church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                The reference in this journal to dinner parties, teas, quiltings, etc., are exceedingly numerous.
                    Good feeling pervaded the whole communit. While there was genuine western hospitality, there were
                    some other motives at the bottom for such constant courtesy on the part of many of the new-comers
                    toward the rank and file. There was to be an election of county officers in the spring and hence the
                    endeavor on the side of certain gentlemen to win over by politeness and attention every voter and
                    his wife.
                The first mention of any musical instrument in the journal is in an entry of December 27, 1821:
                "I was sitting by the fire and Mr. Fletcher was reading Robertson's history of America when the news
                    came that Mr. Blake had returned from Corydon. Mr. F. has gone to see him, and when I write a few
                    more lines I will go also, although I feel very much fatigued, for it is a long time since I have
                    heard the fiddle played. I think it will seem very melodious, and I am just about to start to hear
                    it."
                But while there were plenty of calls, visits, etc., the great social events of the winter were the
                    Christmas and New Year's parties. The former was a "stag" party, and the latter was a ball. My
                    father's journal is more full in regard to Christmas, 1821:
                "This day I got up at sunrise. I visited several of my neighbors, who all appeared friendly. About
                    ten o'clock I went to the river" [on the banks of which there were then more cabins than elsewhere].
                    "I found at Mr. McGeorge's a large collection of men, principally the candidates for the new county
                    offices. The  county is just being laid off. McGeorge had the
                    only barrel of cider in town. I suppose it to have cost him about seven dollars. In the liberality
                    of the candidates the barrel was unheaded, and all promiscuously drank. But as the cider was frozen,
                    the dog-irons were put red-hot into the barrel. After having drank heartily of the cider they took
                    brandy, which soon produced intoxication. A friend of mine, having in some way made a mistake as to
                    its inebriating qualities, took too much. I therefore left the company and came home with him. I
                    found a great degree of accommodation and courtesy used among all classes. The candidates led the
                    concourse from one place to another till sundown."
                The ladies on that Christmas appeared to have had a very unostentatious time of it, for they spent
                    the day in much quiet visiting.
                "Tuesday, Christmas," writes my mother, "Mrs. Bradley and Mrs. Paxton came and spent the day with me.
                    They dined with me. Then Mrs. B. and I went to Mrs. Paxton's, where we both took tea. After
                    remaining a while I returned home, and then went to the Nowland's. I then came home again and read a
                    chapter in the Bible, etc."
                The crowning social occasion of the season was a New Year's party given at Mr. Wyant's cabin, of
                    which occasion Colonel Blake was the master, as he was of most public assemblies. I have now before
                    me the invitation to that first party of a ceremonious kind ever given in the New Purchase. This is
                    the first invitation of a formal nature ever penned here. There was no printing press at that time
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and there was evidently but very little writing paper. The paper is four by two and
                    three-quarter inches, and the invitation, written in a clear hand, reads:
                "The company of Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher is requested to a party at J. Wyant's, Tuesday, the first day
                    of January, 1822, at 3 o'clock p. m.
                Managers, A. W. RUSSELL, K. A. SCUDDER."
                "
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 28, 1821."
                We can see how democratic were the hours in those primitive days. This party or ball began at three
                    p. m. and concluded at midnight.
            
            
            
                SOME OLD INDIANAPOLIS DOCUMENTS.
                MR. ALBERT JOHNSON, of 
                        Irvington
                    , has in his possession a mass of papers dating back to the early twenties, and
                    belonging originally to his father and grandfather, who came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     soon after its founding. These are legal documents, receipts, orders and miscellaneous
                    scraps, which, besides the many autographs, have an interest because of little sidelights they throw
                    on the transactions and primitive business methods of our earlier days when money was scarce and a
                    system of payment in commodities more or less necessary. The following are samples:
                "On demand, I promise to make for Jeremiah Johnson, or order, four pair of good shoes, two pair of
                    coarse, strong shoes, two pair, if wished, fine shoes—(?) and bound. Witness my hand and seal, this
                    21st day of September, 1824.
                "SAMUEL JOHNS."
                "Mr. James Cooley please pay to Jeremiah Johnson, the bearer of this, ten pairs of coarse shoes
                    agreeable to our agreement. * * *
                WILLIAM KENNARD."
                "June 21, 1822."
                "Mr. William Bay—Sir: You will please to pay to Jeremiah Johnson 157 bushels of sound corn on my
                    account.
                "JOHN E. BARY."
                "Ten days after date I promise to pay to Jeremiah Johnson 100 pounds of good merchantable wheat
                    flour.
                "ISAAC COOL."
                The following itemized bill gives an idea of the then market prices of various commodities:
                
                    
                        4 1bs. coffee
                        $1 00
                    
                    
                        1/4 1b. tea
                        0 311/4
                    
                    
                        4 1bs. sugar
                        0 50
                    
                    
                        1 1b. wrought nails
                        0 311/4
                    
                    
                        200 segars
                        0 50
                    
                    
                        50 1bs. biscuit
                        2 50
                    
                    
                        1 bushel meal
                        0 25
                    
                    
                        3 1bs. butter
                        0 183/4
                    
                    
                        1 peck salt
                        0 25
                    
                    
                        1 augur
                        0 50
                    
                    
                        2 1bs. nail
                        0 25
                    
                    
                        Cable (boat rope)
                        1 32
                    
                
                
                The legal instruments and forms were pretty nearly as crude as those used in private business. The
                    official reports of the county officers were written on ordinary sheets of writing paper,
                    distinguished only by a faint, half-legible seal, and the tax receipts were on ragged scraps of
                    sheets, printed, when printed at all, in a style that would, at the present day, excite the derision
                    of an apprentice in a country office. A manuscript tax notice written by Jeremiah Johnson when he
                    was collector for 
                        Marion county
                     states that "I will receive taxes at my house on Pennsylvania street, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , until the first day of July next," after which date "two per centum commission will be
                    added to the amount of each person's tax." An interesting glimpse of the county revenue from
                    taxables is given by a document which is worth giving in full:
                "The State of Indiana, 
                        Marion County
                    .
                "This certifies to the treasurer of 
                        Marion county
                     that Asa B. Strong, collector of the revenue of said county for the year 1833, is
                    chargeable for county purposes with—
                
                    
                        1,740 polls at 371/2 cents each
                        $ 652 50
                    
                    
                        1,839 horses at 121/2 cents each
                        229 87.5
                    
                    
                        564 oxen at 61/4 cents each
                        35 25
                    
                    
                        86 silver watches
                        21 50
                    
                    
                        4 gold watches
                        2 00
                    
                    
                        25 brass clocks
                        12 50
                    
                    
                        1 two-wheeled pleasure carriage
                        1 00
                    
                    
                        4 four-wheeled pleasure carriage
                        6 00
                    
                    
                        Stud horse
                        51 00
                    
                    
                        Resident town lots
                        165 65.5
                    
                    
                        Non-resident town lots
                        57 83
                    
                    
                        6,325 82-100 acres first-rate (resident) land at (40)
                        25 30.3
                    
                    
                        80,132 80-100 acres second-rate (resident) land at (30)
                        204 39.8
                    
                    
                        10,814 06-100 acres third-rate (resident) land at (20)
                        21 62.8
                    
                    
                        1,538 95-100 acres first-rate (non-resident) land at (40)
                        6 15.5
                    
                    
                        26,694 78-100 acres second-rate (non-resident) land at (30)
                        80 08.02
                    
                    
                        782 acres third-rate (non-resident) land at (20)
                        1 56.4
                    
                    
                        Road tax on non-resident land
                        87 80.1
                    
                    
                          Total
                        $1,689 94.1
                    
                
                "In testimony whereof, I, James M. Ray, clerk of the 
                        Marion
                     Circuit Court, do hereunto set my hand and seal of office this May 15, A. D. 1833.
                JAMES M. RAY, Clerk."
                
                An amusing sample from the collection is an invitation to a social function sent out by Governor Noah
                    Noble. Typography as an esthetic art seems to have been unknown in the West in those days, and this,
                    set up in big body type, is printed haphazard somewhere near the middle of a generous sheet out of
                    all proportion as to size and margin. It evidently was an eatablished form with the Governor, for
                    his name is affixed in type instead of chirography and the blanks left for date and hour are filled
                    in by his hand. It reads:
                
                        "INDIANAPOLIS
                    , December 16, 1834.
                "Sir—You are requested to unite with gentlemen of the Legislature and others in a social party at my
                    house on Wednesday evening, 5 o'clock.
                N. NOBLE."
            
            
                REMINISCENCES OF AMOS HANWAY.
                
                    From Paper read before the Indiana Centennial Association, July 4, 1900
                
                ICAME to 
                        Indianapolis
                     with my father's family on the 21st of June, 1821, being then a boy in my fifth year.
                    The family had lived in 
                        Vincennes
                     several years before that time. Our voyage here was in an Olean Point flatboat. We went
                    down the Wabash to the mouth of White river and came up to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the boat being poled along up the stream the entire way. I think, from what I have
                    heard, that as much as three weeks were occupied in the journey from 
                        Vincennes
                    . My father and Mr. Burke pushed the boat up-stream.
                There were eighteen houses here at that time, all cabins. They were built along the bank of White river, extending about from the place of our
                    landing to a point near where the Vandalia railroad bridge is situated. Among these eighteen famlies
                    I remember John and Michael and David Van Blaricum, Daniel Yandes, Dr. Isaac Coe, John McCormick,
                    Isaac Wilson, a Mr. Concord, Bethuel Dunning, the ferryman, Obadiah Harris, a Mr. Frazier, Jeremiah
                    Collins and a Mr. Keeler.
                The White river bridge was built in 1832 and 1833.
                    The fine poplar timbers of this bridge where whip-sawed on the bank  where the bridge was to be, on a frame, reaching out from the bank
                    there. The timber was got up the river eight miles and hewed about square, from a foot to three feet
                    square, in the woods, and I rafted it down to the place where it was whipsawed into proper shapes.
                I saw the Delaware and Miami tribes of Indians pass through, going West. They camped by the river,
                    and in the morning all of them went in swimming. They said they never swam in the evening or at
                    night. There was a large tribe of them, over a thousand, I think, all friendly.
                Camp meetings were held by the Methodists every year. The first one was south of town, on the
                    Three-notch Line (now South Meridian street). It was on Kelly's farm, and a great crowd attended.
                    The Methodist preachers were great enthusiasts, men of power, eloquence and earnestness. They did
                    important work in bringing the people to the support of good government, morality and religion.
                    Among the great men who preached there were John Strange, Edwin Ray, James Havens, Edwin Ames and
                    James Armstrong. The next camp meetings were held for years on the Military Park ground, near the
                    canal. Afterward the meeting was on the land occupied by the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, and next it was
                    in the grove on the land at the then north end of Illinois street, at old First street.
                The National road was graded through 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the year 1832, I believe, and some years after the grading the road from East street
                    to Big Eagle creek, west of town, was macadamized. The broken stone was put on in strata of three
                    inches at a time, three times, nine inches in all. Each layer was settled by use for a time, and
                    then the next was put on. After this little patch of macadam stone was put on, Jackson and Van Buren
                    vetoed all the National road bills, so it was a very bad road till the State gave it to a plank-road
                    company, and the people soon rode on a plank floor, which was good till it rotted or wore out.
            
            
            
                THE EARLY SCHOOLS OF 
                        INDIANA
                    .
                FROM THE PAPERS OF D. D. BANTA.
                [The most ambitious and best known work on education in 
                        Indiana
                     is that by Prof. Richard G. Boone, which appeared in 1892. The same year, but prior to
                    the printing of Mr. Boone's book, Judge D. D. Banta, then of the Indiana University Law School, an
                    old-time resident of 
                        Johnson county
                    , and author of a history of that county, published in The 
                            Indianapolis
                         News a series of papers on this important subject. Judge Banta's style of
                    treatment and the ground he covers are so widely different from those of Professor Boone that it is
                    so much new matter to one familiar with Boone. The articles, largely anecdotal and revealing an
                    intimate knowledge of pioneer life and early happenings, give a graphic view of conditions not to be
                    gleaned from a more formal work based wholly upon scholarship. They have a value all their own, and
                    should be of interest to all educators. The series contains too much matter to be reprinted entire
                    in this magazine, but I have taken the liberty to preserve the substance of them and those parts
                    that seem to me most valuable as real contributions to our school history. By the references given
                    the reader who wishes can consult the original, to be found in files in either the State Library or
                    the City Library in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There are ten of the articles, which appear in The News of 1892,
                    under date of January 6, 13, 20, 27; February 3, 10, 17, 24; March 16, 23. The articles will run in
                    these pages throughout the year.—Editor.]
                
                    Educational Status of the Pioneers—First Schools in the State—Distances to the
                        School—Private Houses, Barns, Mills, etc., as School-houses—Rudeness of the First Houses
                        Built—Curious Styles of Building.
                
                THERE is a class which entertains the belief that the early settlers of Indiana were not as well
                    educated as were the early settlers of her sister States. I think this belief was quite generally
                    entertained a half century ago, and, perhaps, even later by the people of these sister States. I do
                    not know why this belief should be held by any one to-day. I know of no reason why the Indiana
                    pioneers should not be considered as the equals in every respect of the pioneer settlers of any of
                    the other States at that period.
                
                It is stated by Gilmore, in "The Advance Guard of Western Civilization," that of the 256 settlers who
                    moved in 1779-'80 to the after site of 
                        Nashville
                    , all but one could write his name. Of thirty-six settlers on the north side of the 
                        Ohio
                    , within the present boundaries of the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , who signed the petition directed to Lieutenant-Colonel Harmer, in 1765, one only
                    signed by his mark. Mr. Roosevelt, in writing "The Winning of the West," had occasion to examine a
                    great many documents written and signed by the pioneer Tennesseeans and Kentuckians, and he gives
                    testimony as following:
                "In examining original drafts of petitions and the like, signed by the hundreds of original settlers
                    of 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , I have been struck by the small proportion—not much over three or four per cent, at
                    the outside—of men who made their mark instead of signing."
                I have no doubt that the same fact would appear from an examination on as large a scale of original
                    documents signed by the Indiana pioneers. I have done a little of that kind of work myself and have
                    found the same result that Mr. Roosevelt did.
                Of course, all the schools of the pioneering period were inferior to the schools of to-day. In
                    methods and appliances the schools of the two periods were as wide asunder as the poles, but in
                    results, take it school for school and month for month, I am inclined to think the difference was
                    not so very marked. Dr. Boone, in his "History of Education in Indiana,"* does
                    not, as I remember, discuss this question, but if he did he would hardly agree with me.
                    Nevertheless, the evidence is abundant that the pioneer schoolmasters were, in general, fairly
                    efficient workers in the schoolroom.
                However much or little of school training the Indiana pioneers had, of two facts, I think, we may be
                    assured: 1. They differed, as a class, in no respect as to their education, from the pioneer
                    settlers of any other State of that period. 2. The sentiment quite generally prevailed among them,
                    as it did with the people of all other States, of an earnest desire that their children should enjoy
                    far more excellent educational privileges than 
                        
                            *This allusion is to Dr. Boone's MS.
                    
                     had fallen to their own lot. Or, in other words, they
                    entertained, in common with all the 
                        United States
                     people of their day, the American idea of the great value of school training. Of the
                    truth of these two propositions I think there can be no doubt. Dr. Boone, in his history, makes it
                    quite plain that later on in Indiana there came a time when there was a seeming indifference in
                    educational affairs that was not at all creditable to the people of the State, but that charge can
                    not in justice be laid to the door of the first comers. The truth is, that long before any steps had
                    been taken in 
                        Massachusetts
                     or 
                        New York
                    , or anywhere else in the western world, looking to a free-school system to be supported
                    by the State, Indiana, in her organic law, had made provision for a system of free education,
                    commencing in the township schools and ending in the State University, and but for the great poverty
                    of the people, which rendered the scheme absolutely impracticable, there can be no doubt that there
                    would have been a free-school system in active operation in this State twenty years or more before
                    the first blundering steps were taken toward it in any other State.
                If one would take the time for it he might secure quite a varied and extensive assortment of "first
                    schools" in the State. Mr. Randall Yarbro, who came to 
                        Clark county
                     in 1810, said: "What was probably the first school in Indiana was opened in 1811 in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , near the river bank." From a work entitled "Indiana Methodism" I quote: "The first
                    school of any kind in the territory of Indiana was taught one and a half miles south of 
                        Charlestown
                    , in 1803." In the summer of 1796 Volney visited 
                        Vincennes
                    , and declared that nobody ever opened a school among the French there till it was done
                    by the Abbe R. [Rivet], a missionary banished hither by the French Revolution; and he adds the
                    further statement that "out of nine of the French scarcely six could read or write, whereas
                    nine-tenths of the American emigrants from the east could do both." From the testimony of John
                    Tipton, a capital-site commissioner, we are warranted in believing that a Frenchman taught school in
                    an Indian village, situated on what is now the northwest corner of 
                        Johnson county
                    , before M. Rivet's day.*
                
                
                    
                        *For what Tipton says, see Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 13, of this magazine.
                
                
                The first school within the present borders of the State was a French school, probably at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the first Anglo-American school was taught in 
                        Clarksville
                    , whose settlement was begun not later than 1785, and probably two or three years before
                    that. At any rate, the place was a "small town" in 1789, and although it was never a place of more
                    than a few log houses, we might safely assume that schools of some sort were provided for the
                    children of the settlement, for this would accord with what I believe to have been the unvarying
                    American practice. After the peace of Greenville, in 1795, the Clark's Grant settlement naturally
                    grew faster than it did before, and in 1800 its population numbered 929. Surely there must have been
                    schools maintained by this time. But we are not left to conjecture merely. From the old records of 
                        Clarksville
                    , kept from the first, there are frequent entries relating to the schoolhouses and
                    schoolmasters almost from the very first.
                The presumption is next to conclusive that a school was opened in 
                        Dearborn county
                     prior to 1802. In the spring of 1796 sixteen families moved across the Big Miami and
                    became the first settlers of 
                        Dearborn county
                    . They had settled on the 
                        Ohio
                     side of the Miami three years before, and during their three years' sojourn there they
                    organized a school and brought in the first schoolmaster known to that part of the country, one
                    Isaac Polk, who "was known far and near as Master Polk." What these sixteen families who moved on
                    southeastern Indiana soil in the spring of 1796, and who were joined by four or five of the families
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     neighborhood the same year, did in the matter of schools, the muse of history,
                    unfortunately, has not seen fit to say. We are left to conjecture, but with the record made during
                    the three years of their residence in 
                        Ohio
                    , we may feel very confident that the year of their moving, or at farthest the following
                    one, marked the advent of the schoolhouse in southern 
                        Indiana
                    .
                
                    From The News of January 20, 1892.
                
                Without further discussion, we may accept that in general, whenever and wherever a neighborhood
                    contained enough children to warrant the enterprise, a schoolmaster was secured and a school was
                    opened. But it must be remembered that neighborhoods  in the
                    early days covered far wider reaches of country than is generally the case now. To that schoolhouse
                    south of 
                        Charlestown
                     referred to in the "History of Methodism in Indiana," D. W. Daily, of 
                        Clark county
                    , went when a small boy, walking a distance of three miles through the woods. Young
                    Daily's school path, like thousands of others, was not very plain, and was sometimes crossed by wild
                    and savage beasts. His devoted mother, realizing the dangers that beset her boy, went with him part
                    of the way every morning, carrying her youngest born in her arms, and every evening she met him on
                    the way as he returned to his home. One of the first schools taught in 
                        Spencer county
                     drew children to it from a distance of four miles in every direction; and it was by no
                    means uncommon for school children to trudge, morning and evening, three and four and even more
                    miles to attend their schools.
                In the beginning, houses were not built exclusively for school uses, if an unoccupied cabin or other
                    place was found available for the purpose. The first school taught in 
                        Martinsville
                    , certain chroniclers say, was a summer school on a gentleman's porch, by Dr. John
                    Morrison. There are others, however, who insist that the first school was taught in a barn by James
                    Conway. Barns were not infrequently turned into summer schoolhouses during the pioneer educational
                    period. The first school taught in Newburg, 
                        Warrick county
                    , was in John Sprinkle's barn, and many other barns were given up during part of the
                    temperate season to the pedagogue and his pupils. Mills were also utilized on occasions. The first
                    school ever taught in the English language in the town of 
                        Vevay
                     was by John Wilson, a Baptist minister, in a horse mill. An early school in 
                        Waynesville
                    , 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , was taught by a retired distiller in a blacksmith shop, which school, for reasons not
                    stated, was attended by young men and boys only. In 
                        Spencer county
                     a deserted tannery was utilized. In 
                        Knox
                    , in 
                        Jackson
                    , and perhaps elsewhere, the old forts, after the close of the Indian wars, were turned
                    into schoolhouses. In the towns of 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Brownstown
                    , and some others, the log court-houses were occupied between courts. In 
                        Dubois county
                     Simon Morgan, the county recorder, kept school for many years in the recorder's office.
                    John Godlove,  of 
                        Delaware county
                    , taught one of the first schools in the precincts of his own kitchen, while in every
                    county south of the Wabash, and,
                    doubtless, north of it also, abandoned cabins of one kind or another, were quite frequently used for
                    school purposes.*
                
                The appropriating of the mills and the forts, of the barns and old cabins for schools was, however,
                    the exception and not the rule. The rule was that if a house of some kind was not found ready-made
                    when the time for organizing a school came around, those expecting to be its patrons usually made
                    short work of building one. The first were the plainest and cheapest form of log cabin. The
                    neighbors of the Stotts settlement on White
                    river, in 
                        Morgan county
                    , began and finished ready for occupancy their schoolhouse in one day. Of course, it was
                    the rudest of log cabins, but it may well be supposed that there were hundreds of not much if any
                    better in Indiana from first to last. I have been told of one such that was built and occupied in
                    White River township, in 
                        Jackson county
                    , at a very early day. It was a pole cabin without window, floor or chimney. The fire
                    was kindled on a raised clay platform or hearth in the center, and the sparks and smoke escaped
                    through a large opening in the roof. The children sat on benches next the walls, facing the center,
                    and studied their lessons by the light that came whence the smoke escaped. The house was modeled,
                    evidently, after a hunters' camp. In another part of the same county, a first temple of learning was
                    erected and finished without windows or openings for the light to come in save at the door and the
                    wide throat of the enormous chimney. A similar one was a schoolhouse in 
                        Nashville
                    , this State. We usually associate with the primitive schoolhouses the "greased paper
                    windows," but the truth is, "paper glass" marked a step in the process of the evolution of these
                    structures. In the history of 
                        Spencer county
                     the statement is made that the first schoolhouses had uncovered openings through which
                    the light entered. There were first schoolhouses elsewhere in the State that were without windows.
                    The paper covering, made translucent by a free use of hog's lard or bear's 
                        
                            ∗Apropos, it may be mentioned that Hanover College had its beginning in
                            the little three-room residence of Dr. John Finley Crowe. When Mrs. Crowe's domestic duties
                            made it necessary, the class of six boys repaired to the loom-house, a log structure of one
                            room devoted to the family weaving.—Editor.
                        
                    
                     oil, had not yet been thought of, but was to come as an
                    improvement and mark an era in the improvement of schoolhouse architecture. The settlement of 
                        Spencer county
                     was begun as early as about 1812, and the statement may well be true, for its
                    earliest-built schoolhouse belonged to the first of the Territory. In Blue River township, 
                        Hancock county
                    , the first one was built of logs and had five corners. It was not chinked and daubed,
                    had no windows, and but one door. This must have been as late as 1830. The uncovered openings of the 
                        Spencer county
                     houses are suggestive of the portholes in the blockhouses built during the early days
                    as a protection against the Indians. It is a well-known fact that after the final cessation of
                    Indian hostilities the old forts were in some instances converted into schoolhouses, and I find it
                    recorded that a school was taught in 1808 in the dwelling house of John Widner, "which house was
                    almost a fort," having been constructed with special reference to making resistance against attacks
                    of Indians. Indeed, there is direct authority for the statement that schoolhouses were constructed
                    in 
                        Washington county
                     with portholes for shooting at the Indians, and if in 
                        Washington county
                    , we have good reason to suppose that they were likewise so constructed elsewhere at the
                    same time. I have not come across any record or tradition to show that a cabin full of school
                    children was ever beleaguered in Indiana, or even that the schoolmasters of the State ever at any
                    time carried rifles to their schools with which to defend their scholars in case of attack; but when
                    we remember how very few of the specific acts of a man or of men, which belong to every-day life and
                    are not required by some law to be entered of record, find their way into history books, we can see
                    that schoolmasters may have gone armed to their schools here in Indiana, and the fact remain
                    unknown; and I have no doubt they did.
                While the old schoolhouses were, whatever their dimensions, generally rectangular in shape, this was
                    not always true. I find an account of two in 
                        Orange county
                    , in Northwest and Southeast townships respectively, that seem to have been five-sided,
                    one end being built "in the shape of a fence corner for a fireplace." This unique style of
                    architecture may have been practiced elsewhere. In fact, a five-cornered schoolhouse was erected in 
                        Hancock county
                     as late as 1830.
                
                Can those who attended the old cabin schoolhouses ever forget the total want of everything connected
                    with them that was calculated to cheer and comfort the youngster in his ascent of the hill of
                    knowledge? No attempt, whatever, was ever made by the men who constructed these houses toward
                    beautifying them in any degree, and, judged by the standards of to-day, not much was done with a
                    view to securing the comfort of the children.
                The following description of an old time schoolhouse and its furnishings is taken from "Recollections
                    of the Early Settlement of the Wabash
                    Valley," by Sanford C. Cox:
                "The schoolhouse was generally a log cabin with puncheon floor, ‘cat and clay’ chimney, and a part of
                    two logs chopped away on each side of the house for windows, over which greased newspapers or
                    foolscap was pasted to admit the light and keep out the cold. The house was generally furnished with
                    a split [splint] bottom chair for the teacher, and rude benches made out of slabs or puncheons for
                    the children to sit upon, so arranged as to get the benefit of the huge log fire in the winter time,
                    and the light from the windows. To these add a broom, a water-bucket, and a tin cup or gourd, and
                    the furniture list will be complete."
                The writer omits one important adjunct, viz., the writing-table or bench, as it was in some
                    schoolhouses not inappropriately called. This usually consisted of a broad board, sawed or sometimes
                    rived, nailed to stout pins driven into holes bored in the logs at a proper slant upward beneath the
                    long window. In the absence of a suitable board, a puncheon hewn to a smooth face, or even a
                    half-log so hewn and mounted upon pins driven into the wall or upon stakes driven into the earth,
                    was made to serve the purpose of a lighter writing table.
                It would be a waste of words to point out the squalor and discomfort of the old cabin schoolhouses.
                    Most of us, however, who caught glimpses of learning within their portals in our younger days, think
                    we treasure very tender recollections of them, but I suspect the tender recollections are of the
                    youthful friendships we then formed, and of the surrounding woods and streams that witnessed
                    indulgence in all manner of lawful sports, without a shadow of fear of trespassing on the rights of
                    others.
                [To be continued.]
            
            
            
                EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
                THE RICHMOND CENTENNIAL.
                Just now there is, perhaps, more local history interest in 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Wayne county
                     than in any other part of the State, because of the centennial anniversary of the
                    settlement of that locality. The following brief statement from Mr. Cyrus W. Hodgin, president of
                    the Centennial Association, will give an idea of the movement:
                "The first white settlers on the site of 
                        Richmond
                     came there in 1806. This year, 1906, is therefore the one hundredth anniversary of the
                    event. At its meeting in November, 1905, the 
                        Wayne County
                     Historical Society appointed a committee to consult with the City Council and a number
                    of other organizations concerning an appropriate celebration of the centennial of the beginning of
                    the town. The Council approved, and appointed a cooperating committee. A Centennial Association has
                    been organized, consisting of representatives chosen by nearly one hundred fraternal societies,
                    churches, and literary, charitable and business organizations. A number of standing committees have
                    been appointed to promote various phases of the plan, and the work of preparation for the event is
                    now well under way.
                "There will be six days devoted to the celebration, beginning September 11, and closing on Sunday,
                    the 16th. It will be a time of home-coming for former residents, and a program of excellent variety
                    and high character will be presented for the enjoyment of all. Old Richmondites are invited to send
                    for announcements."
                From this it will be seen that there is promise of a general awakening in 
                        Richmond
                     along this line. Indeed, the editor will personally testify to this, for in a recent
                    visit to "The Queen of all the Hoosier Plain" he found not a few citizens deeply engrossed in the
                    past story of their community, and all available sources are being drawn upon. Old newspaper files
                    are being  hunted up, and the people are urged to ransack their
                    chests and attics in search of papers and relics. The first 
                        Richmond
                     directory, published in 1857, contains a history of the place, by John T. Plummer,
                    which, like Ignatius Brown's directory history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is the one upon which all the subsequent histories have been based. If any one in or
                    out of the county has one of those directories, now is the time to find a market for it. The press,
                    particularly Tne Sun- Telegram, is pushing the movement along with enthusiasm, and
                    will be an effective instrument in promoting popular interest by its publication through the summer
                    of reminiscences and history papers gleaned from old residents and students of the earlier day.
                WHAT THEY ARE DOING IN 
                        IOWA
                    .
                
                    
                        Iowa
                     is one of the States younger than Indiana where they have come to perceive the value of
                    their own history and have taken steps to preserve it. In connection with their State Library they
                    have a Historical Department, and to these are devoted a handsome edifice of imposing proportions.
                    Moreover, from this Historical Department is issued a quarterly historical magazine (Annals of 
                            Iowa
                        
                    ), which is one of the best of its kind published in the country. With the State support back
                    of it, it is enabled to add to its letter-press many illustrations and charts —a very desirable
                    feature which, so far, this magazine has not been able to do, except in a very limited way. A letter
                    to the editor of Annals, Mr. Charles Aldrich, relative to the local history
                    interest there, has elicited the following reply:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Your letter of the 28th ult., came yesterday. You asked me how I started this work.
                                    It was simply by giving a boy's autograph collection, and being obliged to come here
                                    and see that it was taken care of, where it would otherwise have been utterly
                                    wasted. In order to get a case for its reception, I had to ‘hang around’ the capitol
                                    some little time at my own expense. It did not seem that I could leave the
                                    collection unguarded without danger of its destruction, so I stayed and stayed. A
                                    little investigation showed me that the State was doing nothing at that time to
                                    preserve the materials of its history, so in a small way I began to ‘beg’ files of
                                    newspapers, books, pamphlets and public documents which were out of print, and which
                                    were not otherwise  much esteemed, but which
                                    contained some of the materials that a State historian would require. I found that 
                                        Wisconsin
                                     had the histories of seventy 
                                        Iowa
                                     counties, while our State Library contained but half that number, with
                                    only one dilapidated volume on North American Indians, and on several tribes that
                                    had made their homes in what is now 
                                        Iowa
                                    .
                                "Gradually, these ideas forced themselves upon me, and before I was hardly aware of
                                    it, I became a collector. I soon began to receive prehistoric stone implements, arms
                                    which were in use in the civil war, specimens of birds and animals, minerals,
                                    fossils, ancient implements and furniture, etc., etc. Seeing what I was doing, the
                                    Legislature finally gave me the use of three vacant rooms in the basement of the
                                    capitol building. Looking back upon those days it seems an incomparably short time
                                    until the rooms were filled to overflowing. Then, gradually the idea of a building
                                    for this special purpose seemed to be evolved, and matters progressed in the usual
                                    way until June 17, 1899, when the cornerstone of the present edifice was laid by
                                    Governor Shaw. Since then, our progress has been quite rapid. Our museum has
                                    developed until it has become an object of State-wide attraction, not to the people
                                    of wealth and to those who travel widely, but to the common people of 
                                        Iowa
                                    .
                                "If I can do anything further to assist you, it will afford me very great pleasure."
                                "P. S. I had almost forgotten to mention your admirable magazine. You are doing
                                    splendidly and it ought to command support. If you can continue it as you have
                                    started, it will be a great help to your other work. In fact, I am of the opinion
                                    that our Annals of 
                                            Iowa
                                        
                                     has done more to develop and expand this work than almost any other
                                    instrumentality except the museum. It brings to us exchanges with more than three
                                    hundred newspapers and historical magazines, not only throughout the 
                                        United States
                                    , but in foreign countries. It serves to preserve many of the materials
                                    of history, and we now have a constant demand for back numbers from schools,
                                    colleges and libraries, as well as individuals, all over the country. I have been
                                    compelled to reprint several numbers. I think I mentioned your magazine when it was
                                    first started, for I have a distinct recollection that it greatly pleased me."
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                WORK OF THE 
                        MONROE COUNTY
                     SOCIETY.
                The 
                        Monroe County
                     Historical Society, organized but a year ago, has maintained the vigor with which it
                    started out, and in a program recently issued for 1905-1906 we find an admirable showing. The
                    meetings are held monthly throughout the year except August, and at present not less than fifteen
                    papers have been prepared or are promised. Those that have been read are: "Reminiscences of Indiana
                    University Forty Years Ago" (published in Vol. 1, No. 3, of this magazine); "Hon. James Hughes," by
                    Henry C. Duncan; "The History of the 
                        Bloomington
                     Water-Works," by Ira C. Batman; "James Parks, Pioneer," by Jonathan W. Ray; "Old Water
                    Mills in 
                        Monroe County
                    ," by Williamson B. Seward; "My Grandmother Seward's Stories of Pioneer Times," by Miss
                    Margaret McCullough; "Early Elections in 
                        Monroe County
                    ," by Frank C. Duncan; "Sketch of Dudley Chase Smith, of 
                        Vermont
                    ," by his son, Dudley F. Smith; "The Rogers Family in 
                        Monroe County
                    ," by Leonidas D. Rogers; "My Grandmother Elizabeth Grundy Dunn," by Mrs. Elizabeth Dunn
                    Legg.
                Those on the program yet to be read are, dates and subjects, as follows:
                March 16, "The 
                        Bloomington
                     Christian Church," by Amzi At-water; April 20, "Notes from the Journal of Dr.
                    Theophilus A. Wylie," by Mrs. Louise Wylie Boisen; May 18, "The University in the Later Fifties," by
                    Judge John C. Robinson; June 15, "A Sketch of Austin Seward," by Henry C. Duncan; July 20, "
                        Monroe County
                     Stone Quarries," by Williamson B. Seward.
                To quote from the program:
                "A number of subjects are in contemplation from which the program for the year 1906-1907 will be made
                    up. Among these are ‘The Monon Railroad,’ by Mr. Carter Perring; ‘The 
                        Bloomington
                     Public Schools from the Records of the School Board,’ by Mr. W. A. Rawles; ‘The
                    Immigration of the Scotch-Irish Presbyterians to 
                        Monroe County
                    ,’ by Mr. J. A. Woodburn; ‘The Old 
                        Monroe County
                     Female Seminary,’ by Mr. Amzi Atwater; ‘The History of Organized Charities in 
                        Bloomington
                    ,’ by Mrs. Minnie B. Waldron; ‘Company K, 14th Indiana Volunteers in the Civil War,’ by
                    Miss Mary Kelly; ‘The Beginnings of the City Hospital,’ by Mrs. Maude Showers.
                
                "The society hopes to secure in time, a history of each religious denomination in the county and of
                    individual congregations. It seeks the cooperation of clerks of sessions and of congregational
                    secretaries and pastors to this end.
                "It is the intention of the society to preserve typewritten copies of all the papers read before the
                    society, to be bound in annual volumes.
                LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
                POST VINCENNES—A SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE RELATING TO ITS ESTABLISHMENT.
                A pamphlet of some fifteen or twenty thousand words bearing this title has recently been issued by F.
                    A. Myers, of 
                        Evansville
                    . As the sub-title implies, it is a study in the sources that touch upon the old post,
                    and particularly upon the date of its establishment. There is ample evidence in the text that the
                    study has been searching and painstaking, and it has much collateral information that is of
                    interest. Just what it adds to the subject only an expert could tell. We frankly confess ourselves
                    somewhat stupid in the attempt to get at the merits of this particular kind of a question. The date
                    of the establishment of 
                        Vincennes
                     is involved in much haze, and the probabilities are that it will never be less hazy.
                    The evidence at best but affords grounds for surmise, and the surmising varies with the ingenuity of
                    the investigator, just as, in the contentions that spring up, the most ingenious reasoner triumphs
                    quite regardless, perhaps, of the actual facts in the case. Mr. Myers takes vigorous exceptions to
                    certain conclusions of Mr. J. P. Dunn on this subject, but we think he might have presented a
                    clearer summary of his own argument, the exact scope of which is uncertain on a casual reading. The
                    pamphlet, nevertheless, we repeat, is a careful and lengthy study of the question from such data as
                    exist, and as such should be in the collection of every one who is gathering Indiana material. The
                    author's address is 724 Upper Third street, 
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.
                NEWSPAPER ARTICLES. There is much, in fact, a surprising
                    amount, of valuable history material being continually published by the local papers throughout the
                    State. Very often this is  not preserved, even by the publishing
                    papers, and in a short time passes into utter oblivion. We shall be glad to receive for notice in
                    these pages any articles of note that have been so published, either recently or at any previous
                    period. Some have been received and we here give them space.
                
                    The True Site of Fort 
                            Knox
                        
                    , by Dr. Hubbard M. Smith, in the Sunday Commercial, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , January 7, 1906. In this article Dr. Smith proves by good documentary evidence that
                    Fort 
                        Knox
                     (the American fort in that locality that succeeded to Fort Sackville) was located at 
                        Vincennes
                    , about two hundred yards below the present foot of Hart street. It has been generally
                    believed that this fort stood at a point some three miles up the river, but Mr. Smith makes it
                    tolerably clear that the establishment located there was not the fort, but a garrison, and that
                    there has arisen a confusion respecting the two. He makes an appeal to the Daughters of the
                    Revolution to place a marker at this site, as they have already marked old Fort Sackville.
                
                    The George Lay Raid, a series of ten papers by John T. Campbell, in the 
                        
                            Rockville
                         Republican, May 9 to July 11, 1894. This series makes an interesting chapter
                    in our civil war history and recounts Mr. Campbell's experiences as an officer with the disaffected
                    element in 
                        Parke county
                    . The articles give a graphic idea of the spirit of the times and the serious
                    proportions of organized rebellion in that locality. Some of these papers, we believe, may still be
                    procured. Mr. Campbell's address is The Soldiers' Home, 
                        Lafayette
                    .
                
                    The Unnamed Anti-Slavery Heroes of Old 
                            Newport
                        
                    , by Dr. O. N. Huff, in the 
                        
                            Richmond
                         Sun- Telegram, December 25, 1905. This rather lengthy paper is a valuable
                    contribution to the anti-slavery history of 
                        Wayne county
                    , in that it preserves a record of the names and services of active workers in that
                    cause who have received little or no credit in the histories previously written. There is quite a
                    list of these names, and the part some of them played makes an interesting story.
                
                    The 
                            New Harmony
                         Papers. The 
                        
                            New Harmony
                         Times is doing a good work by giving to the public documentary material from
                    the rich collection in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Library. The journals of William Owen and William Pelham, from the original
                    manuscripts, have been running for some months, and the reminiscences  of the late Victor Duclos have been recently begun. All of these papers
                    deal with the famous Rappite and Owen communities and have a far more than local interest. The
                    Duclos articles will be followed by a diary of James Bennett, who went to 
                        California
                     across the plains in 1849, and Mr. Wolfe, the editor, promises that it will offer "a
                    rare addition to the information that has been left of the once unknown West."
                
                    The Genesis of Methodism in 
                            Richmond
                        
                    , by the Rev. O. S. Harrison, in the Sun- Telegram, February 14, 1906, is, as the title
                    implies, a local contribution to the history of the State, and as such will be of interest to the
                    student of that subject.
                
                    Edward Swanson, the romantic story of a strange character who was hanged for
                    murder in 
                        Rushville
                    , in 1829—a series of articles by Dr. John Arnold, in the 
                        
                            Rushville
                         Graphic, in August and September, 1897. These papers contain considerable lore
                    of 
                        Rush county
                    . Dr. Arnold also published a series of "Reminiscences" in the 
                        
                            Rushville
                         Republican, beginning January, 1875.
                INDIAN MOUNDS IN 
                        DE KALB
                     COUNTY.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Editor the Indiana Magazine of History:—
                                References in the December number of the INDIANA QUARTERLY MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, to the
                                    old Indiana Torture Stake near 
                                        Muncie
                                    , have suggested to me an explanation of a discovery made by me while
                                    examining some of the mounds in 
                                        DeKalb county
                                    . I examined a great many of these mounds. Most of them contained human
                                    bones, fragments of pottery, and an occasional arrow-head, stone hammer, or stone
                                    flesher.
                                Two of these mounds were on the bank of Cedar creek, about one-half mile northwest of
                                    Waterloo. Large trees were growing around them, and quite a large tree grew about in
                                    the center of one of them,—the smaller of the two. The large mound was about twelve
                                    feet in diameter, and about four and one-half or five feet in hight. It contained
                                    the skeleton of one person, apparently buried in a sitting posture. The other
                                    contained the remains of a number of persons. The bodies had apparently been placed
                                    in a heap on the ground, and covered with earth. Fractures of some of the skulls
                                    indicated violent deaths. Above the earth covering the bodies was a layer of stone
                                    and over this more earth and a thick layer of charcoal mingled with charred  fragments of human bones. At that time, after a
                                    careful examination, I concluded that these mounds marked the site of a battle; that
                                    the victors of those left in possession of the field had made these mounds the
                                    burial place of their dead, and had burned the bodies of their dead enemies on the
                                    mound above them. The description of the old torture stake at 
                                        Muncie
                                     suggests that instead of the bodies of their dead enemies, they may
                                    have burned living victims.
                                Very respectfully,
                                ROBERT W. MCBRIDE.
                                
                                    
                              
                                 
                                     Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                    January 10, 1906.
                            
                        
                    
                
                STATE TEACHERS' HISTORY SECTION.
                The ninth annual meeting of the History Section of the Indiana State Teachers' Association will meet
                    at the Claypool Hotel, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on Friday and Saturday, April 27 and 28, 1906. Following is the program:
                FRIDAY, 2:00 P. M.—Report of committee on local history, C. W. Hodgin, chairman; discussion opened by
                    Prof. W. S. Davis, 
                        Richmond
                     High School (Professor Davis is chairman of the History Committee of the 
                        Richmond
                     Centennial Association, and will show what may be done, by what 
                        Richmond
                     is preparing for her Centennial next September); report of committee on history in the
                    grades, Prof. E. W. Kemp, chairman; general discussion; appointment of committees.
                6:00 P. M.—Dine together at the Claypool.
                8:00 P. M.—Joint session of the History Section and the Indiana Historical Society; paper, "Making a
                    Capital in the Wilderness," by Judge Daniel Waite Howe, president of the Historical Society; talk,
                    "Work of the Historical Society," by Hon. J. P. Dunn, its secretary; talk, "Aims of the History
                    Section, and Possible Ways of Cooperation Between the Two Societies," by Dr. James A. Woodburn;
                    general discussion.
                SATURDAY, 9:00 A. M. Address, "An Experiment with History in the Grades," by Prof. Henry Johnson, of
                    the Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     State Normal School; general discussion; address, "Evolution of the Present Wave of
                    Reform," by Hon. L. B. Swift; election of officers; miscellaneous business.
                Headquarters at the Claypool, which furnishes free Assembly Room, and offers a $2.50 rate, two in a
                    room; $3.00, one in a room.
                All teachers of history and related subjects are cordially invited to participate in the pleasure and
                    profit of all the sessions.
            
        
        
            
        
    
