
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 39, Issue 3, pages 221-320. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:39+issue:3+year:1943&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            John Hays and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Indian Agency
            BY NELLIE A. ROBERTSON
            John Hays should have known better than to take an appointment as Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1820. It was a hard, dangerous, exasperating, body-racking job; and he was too
                    experienced in frontier life to underestimate its demands.
            Perhaps he was tired of the little 
                        Illinois
                     town on the 
                        Mississippi
                     where he had lived for twenty-seven years. Cahokia had seemed a promising spot when he
                    settled there in 1793 as agent for the trading house of Todd and Hay.1 One of
                    the oldest settlements of the 
                        Illinois
                     country, and a county-seat town, it then rivaled ancient 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in importance.2 For several years before, Hays had traded with the
                    Indians of 
                        Canada
                     and the Northwest; he had a good English education and a fluent command of French.
                    Since more of Cahokia's five hundred inhabitants were French than English, it was a great
                    advantage to be bilingual. The fact probably helped Hays to secure his appointment as sheriff of 
                        St. Clair County
                     in 1802, and as postmaster of Cahokia, both of which offices he held year in and year
                    out without regard to the direction of political tides.3
            
            
               
                  1 Hays was born in the city of 
                            New York
                         in 1770, according to a sketch of his life in John Reynolds, The
                            Pioneer History of 
                                Illinois
                            … (Belleville, 111., 1852), 186–88; see also Francis
                        S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809
                        (Indiana Historical Bureau Reprint of 
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections, XXI, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1931), cclxxi-cclxxii.
               
                  2 On Cahokia at this period, see Solon J. Buck, 
                     
                                Illinois
                             in 1818 (
                                Illinois
                             Centennial Publications, introductory volume, 
                            Springfield
                        , 1917), 79–80, 89–92.
               
                  3 William Wesley Woollen, Daniel W. Howe, and Jacob P. Dunn (eds.), Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, 1800–1816 (Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, III, No. 3, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900), 109.
            
            
            When the firm of Todd and Hay dissolved, Hays was sufficiently established to go into business for
                    himself, or rather into several businesses. Part of the time he had goods for sale in the village.
                    Every autumn he went or sent a boat far up the 
                        Mississippi
                     with goods for the Indian trade.4 These expeditions covered months,
                    sometimes all winter; during the summers he devoted himself to farming in the rich bottomlands near
                    Cahokia.
            In all these occupations, public and private, Hays showed good judgment and an ability to get along
                    in the world. His marriage followed the same estimable pattern, if we are to believe his townsman
                    John Reynolds, who says somewhat sententiously that Hays "married a lady in 
                        Vincennes
                    , of excellent family, and what is still better, of sound, good sense. They lived
                    together in Cahokia, and raised a respectable family."5
            
            In 1814, Hays became collector of internal revenue for 
                        Illinois
                     Territory.6 This did not add appreciably to his income, but it did
                    widen his political acquaintance and strengthen his reputation as a good public servant. About this
                    time Cahokia's century-old glories began to fade, and it sank gradually to the status of a
                    slack river town, noted only for the roistering weekly balls of its French-Canadian voyageurs. By 1820 the occasional travelers through the area spoke of Cahokia with pity or
                    distaste. One of them dispatched the town in a single scathing sentence. "At two
                    o'clock," he wrote, "we entered and passed through the village of 
                        Illinois
                    , which is separated into two parts by the pestiferous channel of Cahokia creek, and a
                    few minutes later our carriage halted on the banks of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ."7
            
            
               Hays says that he served sixteen years as sheriff and fourteen years as postmaster. Letter to
                        John C. Calhoun, April 22, 1822, National Archives (hereafter NA), War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd. A photostat of this letter and others cited from the National Archives are now
                        in the Indiana State Library.
               
                  4 On the strength of his wide experience in the Indian trade, Hays was
                        asked for information on the routes and disposition of forces from 
                            Montreal
                         to Michilimackinac during the War of 1812. Letter to Governor Ninian Edwards,
                        August 20, 1812, in E. B. Washburne (ed.), The Edwards Papers…(
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society Collections, III, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 81–83.
               
                  5 Reynolds, Pioneer History of 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 187.
               
                  6 U. S. Senate, Executive Journal, II, 457, 461.
               
                  7 Henry R. Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of
                            the Mississippi Valley
                  …(
                            New York
                        , 1825), 225.
            
            
            Hays saw his business declining with the town. Being a practical man, he began to look for something
                    better. A land-office post—a fairly sedentary employment—would have suited him
                    exactly, and it is likely that he asked the aid of his political friends in securing one. What
                    actually came his way was the offer of the Indian agency at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , hundreds of miles away in the Indiana wilderness.
            We can imagine him meeting the post rider on a hot June day and fishing from the mailbag a red-sealed
                    letter addressed to himself.8 "Department of War, 24 May,
                    1820," began the neat script. "Sir, You have been appointed, with the approbation
                    of the President of the 
                        United States
                    , Indian agent at Ft. Wayne, in the place of Dr. Turner, whose appointment ceased on the
                    15th instant, and should the Senate at their next session advise and consent thereto, you will be
                    commissioned accordingly."
            Because the mails moved slowly over the long road between 
                        Washington
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     country, the secretary of war included directions to be followed in case Hays accepted
                    the appointment. After executing a heavy bond, he was to repair at once to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and there report to the secretary, at 
                        Washington
                    , and to Lewis Cass, governor of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory and head of the Indian superintendency of which the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     agency was a part.
            It was an offer full of promise, with a tempting salary of $1,200 a year. Of course, the
                    responsibilities were heavy. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had been a resort for the Indians for a century. The Miami and Potawatomi who
                    frequented the place, sometimes in throngs of three or four thousand, still had large landholdings
                    in Indiana; and it was certain that the government would soon be urged to secure further cessions.
                    To gain and hold the Indians' confidence would require intelligence and tact.9
            
            Hays' life had fitted him particularly well for the duties of managing agency funds and
                    dealing with the traders. He knew their problems and weaknesses. To control the liquor business in
                    the Indian country was a task no one 
                  
                     8 Calhoun to Hays, May 24, 1820, NA, Int. Dept, Ind. Aff., Sec. War
                            Letter Book D.
                  
                     9 Lewis Cass to Calhoun, March 1, 1821, NA, Dept. War, Sec. War,
                            Letters Rec'd.
               
                     had ever accomplished. Immense quantities of whisky went into 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the problem was particularly troublesome there. Distribution of the Miami
                    annuities, the annual installments due the Indians in payment for ceded lands, was likely to present
                    difficulties, also. The Miami were a quarrelsome lot, restless under the domination of Jean B.
                    Richardviile, one of the cleverest, trickiest, and wealthiest half-breeds in the western country. He
                    had secured good terms for the Miami when they sold their lands, and the annual payments ran above
                    $18,000. But the Indians distrusted his division of the sum.
            Two serious drawbacks should have decided Hays against accepting the agency. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was a long way from the Mississippi River, and he could scarcely
                    take his family with him. Could he himself withstand the physical hardships of supervising a
                    district covering hundreds of square miles—practically all of northeastern Indiana? When
                    he was a youngster buying furs and selling blankets in the Red River country, he had survived rough
                    journeys and scant food. On one occasion, caught in a devouring prairie snowstorm, he had weathered
                    three days and nights of extreme cold and near starvation. Now he was fifty years old; those days
                    recalled themselves in the agonies of rheumatism and a susceptibility to fever, and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Indian agency was no place in which to find a remedy for either.
            Misgivings or not, Hays decided in favor of the post. On the sixteenth of July he dispatched to the
                    secretary of war a bond for $10,000, which was subsequently increased to
                        $30,000.10 If this seems a large security, it must be remembered
                    that the agent was responsible for the huge sums paid annually, in cash, to the Indians.
            Hays and a servant reached 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on the fourteenth of August, 1820, after a "long and tedious journey of 18
                        days."11 He had expected to take over the agency at 
                  
                     10 Calhoun to Hays, August 3, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec.
                            War Letter Book E; Hays to Cass, July 20, 1822, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                            Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     11 Hays to Calhoun, August 14, 1820, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                            Rec'd. Hays met some of the Eel River Miami on his journey up the 
                                Wabash
                             and found them dissastisfied with the agency administration and incensed at the
                            principal chief, Jean Baptiste Richardviile, for his favoritism to the Mississinewa
                        bands.
               
                     once, but Turner had absented himself on the plea of illness.
                    It was not a heartening beginning, but it gave the new agent time to examine his situation
                    thoroughly.
            From the stockade, set high on the right bank of the Maumee, he could look down upon the junction of
                    the St. Mary's and 
                        St. Joseph
                    's rivers. To right and left stretched heavy forests of oak, hickory, and
                    mulberry; and the lands to the southwest descended across a swampy portage of eight miles to the
                    headwaters of the Little River.
            From the fort a cart track angled down to the river-bank and boatlanding, the bustling center of the
                    town's traffic in furs; and three embryonic roads, boggy and stump filled, led respectively
                    to 
                        Detroit
                    , north and west toward Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     and Lake Michigan, and southeast to Fort Recovery, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Until 1819 a garrison of 
                        United States
                     troops had been stationed within the stockade. When they departed, the Indian agency
                    was moved from an old log council house outside the walls to quarters inside. The structure was a
                    substantial one, rebuilt five years before, near the site of General 
                        Wayne
                    's original fort. It was composed of hewn log buildings, joined by a double
                    twenty-foot picketed fence, and inclosing an area of about sixty square yards. To afford the maximum
                    protection against attack, the outer walls of the buildings rose abruptly to a height of thirty-five
                    feet, with the roofs slanting down towards the inside of the in-closure. In the dry August days of
                    his first survey, Hays did not discover a source of much later irritation—leaky roofs.
            Eighteen or twenty cabins composed the village. In one of these Samuel Hanna and his partner, James
                    Barnett, kept a little store as an adjunct to their fur-trading operations; another was headquarters
                    for Francis Comparet, agent of the American Fur Company, and his partner, Alexis Coquillard; but
                    most of the population was as impermanent and improvident as the Indians off whom they lived.12
            
            
               
                  12 Capt. James Riley and Thomas Teas, quoted in Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers (Indiana Historical Collections, III, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 241–43, 250–51; Wallace A. Brice, History of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                  …(
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1868), 285–89, [pt. 2] 4–5; Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the Mississippi Valley
                  , 78,
                        89–90; William H. Keating (comp.), Narrative of an Expedition to the
                            Source of St. Peter's River…in the year 1823 (2 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1824), I, 79ff.
            
            
            Sharing the stockade with the Indian agency was an Indian school kept by Isaac McCoy, a Baptist
                    preacher turned missionary. McCoy promptly presented himself and asked permission to remain. A visit
                    to the school impressed Hays with the abilities of the twenty-six little Potawatomi and Miami,
                    leavened with a sprinkling of Shawnee, Chippewa, and Mohegans. While the boys studied agriculture
                    and mechanics, McCoy's hard-working wife taught the girls spinning, weaving, knitting, and
                    sewing. They excelled at anything requiring imitative ability—they could copy writing
                    with exactness long before they learned to read. Hays granted McCoy's request cheerfully,
                    not foreseeing the results. Within a year the number of students had doubled; in their free moments
                    they raced about the stockade like trapped woods creatures and caused an amount of damage that
                    nearly drove the agent to distraction.13
            
            Most valuable to Hays of the acquaintances made in his first days at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was Benjamin B. Kercheval. Kerhceval had been in and about the fort for five or six
                    years. Without any official position beyond occasional service as interpreter, he had nevertheless
                    made himself extremely valuable to the Indian Department. Hays took an instant liking to the man and
                    soon came to depend on his detailed knowledge of the agency and surrounding Indians.14
            
            Dr. William Turner, the former agent, returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on August 28. The next day he formally transferred to Hays the physical property of the
                    agency—the public buildings inside the stockade, the keys, the agency records; five
                    dwelling houses outside the fort, one blacksmith shop, one coal house, one root house, one stable;
                    two pastures, one timothy meadow, and one field, all fenced; one wagon and two wheelbarrows; and an
                    assortment of tools for the fields and shop.15
            
            
               
                  13 Isaac McCoy, History of Baptist Indian
                            Missions… (
                            Washington
                        , 1840), 80; Hays to Calhoun, July 19, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; McCoy to Calhoun, October 1, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec.
                        War, Letters Rec'd; Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the
                                Mississippi Valley
                  , 74–75.
               
                  14 Hays to Calhoun, May 12 [22?], 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd; McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions…, 129;
                            The John 
                                Tipton
                             Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), I, 298n.
               
                  15 Hays' receipt, August 29, 1820, 
                            Tipton
                         Papers, Indiana State Library.
            
            
            For the next three months Hays applied himself to the problems of the agency. Turner had contracted
                    with an Ohioan named Benjamin Levell to build a saw and gristmill for the Miami Indians on the banks
                    of a small creek above the Mississinewa. The Miami were entitled to the mills—they had
                    been promised by the Treaty of St. Mary's two years before—but Turner made the
                    mistake of signing a contract involving $5,600 before it had been approved by Governor
                    Cass. At the end of August, Levell represented to Hays that the work was finished and that he had
                    not received a cent.
            When Cass saw the contract, he considered the price too high and refused to allow a settlement
                    without an examination of the mills. To complicate the situation, the mill dam broke. Chief
                    Richardville complained furiously to Governor Cass; Hays sent posthaste for Levell. Repairs were
                    made under the supervision of an experienced millwright, but Hays made the three-day journey down
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     to see for himself what had been done. The mills looked all right to him, but the
                    chiefs would have nothing to do with them; so Cass let the account wait until the next year.16
            
            Payment of the Miami annuity did not take place until the middle of November. This was at least a
                    month late, but the delay was not the agent's fault. He had received a check to cover the
                    payment—the amount was $18,181—on October 14; but the check was on
                    the Bank of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and it took four weeks to send a messenger there and haul the boxes of silver dollars
                    back to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .17
            
            As the season progressed, the Miami assembled about the fort—approximately eleven hundred
                    of them. More than a thousand dollars worth of beef and flour were issued to them while they waited
                    for the payment, but they chafed at being kept from the fall hunt. It had become an absolute
                    necessity, rather than an amusement. Bear, otter, and beaver 
                  
                     16 Contract between William Turner and Benjamin Levell, March 17,
                            1820, Hays to Calhoun, August 28, 1820, Cass to Hays, September 15 and October 22, 1820, NA,
                            War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd; Turner to Cass, May 12, 1820, Hays to Cass,
                            October 1, 17, November 1, 26, 1820, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy,
                            Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     17 C. Vandeventer to Hays, September 15, 1820, NA, Int. Dept., Ind.
                            Aff., Sec. War Letter Book E; Hays to Vandeventer, October 16, 1820, NA, War Dept, Sec. War,
                            Letters Rec'd; Hays to Cass, October 16, November 19, 1820, NA, Int. Dept., Ind.
                            Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd,
               
                     were already rare; and most of the furs taken were raccoon and
                    deer. Even an expert hunter seldom made more than one pack of furs in a season; this would not
                    clothe a family, and its money value was not more than a hundred dollars. Gaudy clothing and
                    jingling copper bells on leggings and shot pouches belied their uneasy temper, and Hays reported
                    afterward that never in his thirty-one years of experience with Indians had he seen so turbulent a
                        congregation.18
            
            Part of the tribe felt that they had been cheated at the last annuity payment, which Chief
                    Richardville had handled as he pleased. To quiet them Hays instituted a new method of division. The
                    money was still handed over to the chief, but he was required to distribute it on the spot, one
                    silver dollar at a time to each member of the watching circle of tribesmen.19
            
            As usual, quantities of liquor had been brought in by the traders for sale at the payment. The agent
                    ordered it sent inside the fort, but the Indians found plenty of secret caches and began a carousal
                    which lasted for days. Hays was as much surprised as he was relieved when they departed, at last,
                    without massacring the settlers or burning the stockade.20
            
            At the beginning of each quarter it was the agent's duty to submit a statement of his
                    disbursements for the last three months, accompanied by detailed accounts and receipts, and also an
                    estimate of expenditures for the next quarter. Regular items were the agent's salary,
                    $300; $126 for a blacksmith and the same amount for an interpreter;
                    $45 for the blacksmith's assistant; and a contingent fund which ran around
                    $500 or $600.21 If the agent made payments which were not
                    approved when he later submitted his accounts, he was the sufferer—a most unwilling and
                    articulate sufferer, judging from the records of the Indian Office. Getting 
                  
                     18 Keating (comp.), Narrative…182.1, I,
                            124; Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the Mississippi
                                    Valley
                     , 99–104, 311–12; William Lee to Hays,
                            February 5, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd;
                            Hays to Calhoun, March 13, May 12 [22?], 1821, NA, War Dept, Sec. War, Letters
                            Rec'd.
                  
                     19 Hays to Calhoun, August 14, 1820, ibid.; Keating
                            (comp.), Narrative…1823, I, 80–81.
                  
                     20 McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions,
                            84–85; Hays to Calhoun, March 13, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                            Rec'd.
                  
                     21 William Turner to Cass, May 12, July 8, 1820, NA, Int. Dept, Ind.
                            Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Hays, statement of accounts, March 31,
                            1821, 
                                Tipton
                             Papers.
               
                     things done under this system required the foresight of a
                    prophet and the patience of Job.22
            
            Hays had his feelings hurt in his first struggle with the payroll. Expecting to be paid from the date
                    of his appointment in May, he felt abused when the department ruled that his salary should begin on
                    July 16, the date on which he had dispatched his bond to 
                        Washington
                    . He protested in every report to headquarters, until reminded that his letter of July
                    16 was his first notification to the department that he intended to accept the agency, and that he
                    had not left Cahokia until several days later.23
            
            Late in November, 1820, Hays journeyed to Cahokia to see his family. He was not happy at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . His health had suffered in the five months since he left home, and he begrudged the
                    months away from his family and his business affairs. He was alarmed by the uncontrollable temper of
                    the Miami and their mad passion for whisky and revolted by the grasping attitude of the traders who
                    furnished the liquor.
            Before his departure he informed Cass that he was contemplating resigning; and to Major Benjamin F.
                    Stickney, who was summoned to act as subagent, he intimated that he would not return.24 Whether or not Calhoun had heard of Hays' dissatisfaction, he allowed his
                    appointment to go before the Senate for approval in January, 1821, and it was confirmed on March
                        3.25
            
            
               
                  22 On August 28, 1820, Hays sent to Governor Cass a draft for
                        $2,500, part of the amount included by Turner in his estimate of expenses for the
                        quarter ending June 30, 1820. Cass was not in 
                            Detroit
                        , and William Woodbridge, acting governor, having no notification of Hays'
                        appointment, refused to honor the draft without approval from 
                            Washington
                        . Hays to Cass, August 28, 1820, C. Vandeventer to Wood-bridge, September 2(5, 1820,
                        NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Woodbridge to
                        Calhoun, September 4, 1820, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd. This is but one
                        example of many delays in handling agency accounts.
               
                  23 Hays, estimate of expenses, October 5, 1820, 
                            Tipton
                         Papers; Hays to Cass, September 23, October 1, 17, November 1, 1820, NA, Int Dept.,
                        Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd, 1820; Hays to Calhoun, March 13, July
                        8, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd; Calhoun to Hays, August 3, 1821, NA,
                        Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec. War Letter Book E.
               
                  24 Hays to Cass, November 1, 19, 26, 1820, Benjamin F. Stickney to Cass,
                        December 9, 1820, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.;
                        Stickney applied for the 
                            Fort Wayne
                         agency.
               
                  25 Calhoun to the President, January 10, 1821, 
                            Newton
                         D. Mereness Calendar of Papers from the National Archives; U. S. Senate, Executive Journal, III, 235, 255.
            
            
            Stickney was meanwhile appointed to another post, and in April he turned the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     agency over to the ever-useful Kercheval.26 Hays, ill at Cahokia,
                    learned with dismay of Stickney's intended departure and implored the appointment of a
                    subagent and the establishment of a military force at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . "It is neither [at] Chicagoe, Green Bay, 
                        Prairie
                     du Chein, Falls of St. Antoney, Rock river, or any part of the 
                        Mississippi
                     or even Michilimakanac…that in my opinion a Military force would be more
                    necessary," he wrote to Secretary Calhoun.27
            
            Under the circumstances, Hays felt obliged to return to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , but it was May before he dared attempt the journey. He collapsed after the first
                    fifteen miles. Several weeks later he started out again, with one of his daughters to look after
                        him.28
            
            While he was on the way, Governor Cass stopped at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on his way to conduct a treaty at 
                        Chicago
                    . Kercheval gave him the hospitality of the fort and next day accompanied him to the
                    Miami mills. Although neglected and unused, the mills seemed honestly built; and Cass conceded that
                    the builder should be paid.29
            
            One purpose of Cass's journey was to collect information on Indian history and customs. He
                    was interested in a man-eating society of the Miami, a small hereditary association whose members
                    were said to devour prisoners of war. On this subject he found the chiefs smoothly evasive, for the
                    society had been in disrepute for years. The next summer he pursued his investigation through the
                    agents of his superintendency. Hays made some inquiries but lost all interest when informed that to
                    learn the society's inner mysteries he must become a member.30
            
            
               
                  26 Hays to Calhoun, March 13, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd; Stickney to Cass, April 20, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  27 Hays to Calhoun, March 13, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd.
               
                  28 Hays to Calhoun, May 12 [22?], 1821, April 22, 1822, NA, War Dept.,
                        Sec. War, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  29 Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the
                        
                            Mississippi
                        
                        Valley, 113–14; Cass to Calhoun, October 26, 1821, NA, War Dept.,
                        Sec. War, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  30 Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the
                                Mississippi Valley
                  , 104–05; Keating (comp.), Narrative…1823, I, 101–07; Hays to Cass, October 20,
                        1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Ontwa, the Son of the Forest (
                            New York
                        , 1822), 129–36; Kercheval
            
            
            During his second summer at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Hays was obliged to curtail agency expenses from $5,000 to less than
                    $3,000 in line with a general reduction of funds for the Indian Department. He had always
                    cut corners economically and felt that further retrenchment would seriously disaffect the Indians.
                    The amount assigned him would not pay for the occasional pound of tobacco or loaf of bread which
                    every Indian considered his due. Hays' vigorous protest was echoed by other agents, and
                    Calhoun was obliged to allow them a little leeway.31
            
            Hays wanted money also to repair the agency quarters, now in a "perfect decaying
                    state," as he reported to Calhoun, and particularly in need of shingles. And what was to be
                    done about McCoy's Indian pupils, who were tearing the public buildings to pieces?
                    Government property outside the stockade was suffering, too, for everyone made free use of the
                    government timber.32
            
            Asking for instructions on these matters, the agent made a special plea for some government order,
                    perhaps from the President, to end the sale of liquor to the Indians.33 Of all
                    the troubles an agent had to contend with, this was the first and last and most insoluble. The
                    Indians would part with anything they had to secure whisky. By supplying it, the traders obtained
                    for themselves the annual take in furs and most of the annuity money. Although trespass and liquor
                    violations were punishable under the Trade and Intercourse Act, the courts were so far from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as to make prosecutions impracticable. Taking every advantage of this fact, Indians and
                    traders united against the government to make its regulations worth just so many bits of paper.34
            
            
               also made some inquiries among the Miami. Kercheval to Cass, February 27, 1822, NA, Int.
                        Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  31 Hays to Calhoun, July 8, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd; Calhoun to Cass, August 3, 1821, NA, Int. Dept, Ind. Aff., Sec. War Letter Book
                        E.
               
                  32 Hays to Calhoun, July 8, 19, 25, 1821, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters
                        Rec'd.
               
                  33 Hays to Cass, September 2, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Calhoun to Hays, November 13, 1821, NA, Int.
                        Dept.,'Ind. Aff., Sec. War Letter Book E.
               
                  34 Schoolcraft, Travels in the Central Portions of the
                                Mississippi Valley
                  , 92–93, 118–23; John
                        Johnston to Cass, March 24, 1821, Kercheval to Cass, June 8, 1822, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff.,
                        Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Hays to Calhoun, March 13, 1821, NA, War Dept.,
                        Sec. War, Letters Rec'd; McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions,
                        143–44.
            
            
            In the northern part of Indiana the Potawatomi were more numerous than the Miami. They had ceded
                    little of their land, however, and their annuities were small. It had suited the government to pay
                    them at 
                        Detroit
                    , but the Potawatomi objected to traveling a hundred miles for their annual stipend
                    while the Miami were paid at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Starting out hungry on the long journey, the young men provisioned themselves off the
                    cattle and hogs of the settlers. This resulted in claims for depredations which had to be paid out
                    of the annuity, and the net result was a wearisome trip and no reward for their trouble. Hays
                    earnestly recommended that the payment be transferred to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .35
            
            The government took no notice of the request, but the following spring, with fine inconsistency, sent
                    out a letter reproaching the Indians for crossing from 
                        Detroit
                     into 
                        Canada
                     and accepting presents from the British. An outstanding warrior and orator named Metea
                    replied for the tribe, with a biting reference to the pleas they had made to be paid at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and an unblushing confession that he himself annually received a present from the
                    British. He would willingly relinquish the custom, he said, if the 
                        United States
                     would give him as much at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Cass thought Metea a lying trickster, influenced by traders who wanted a chance at
                    more annuity money; and for two years longer the Potawatomi were obliged to receive their payments
                    at 
                        Detroit
                    .36
            
            Hays had some success during the summer in an attempt to interest the Miami in farming. One band
                    asked for plows and harness and rails enough to fence a communal field, agreeing to pay for tools
                    and labor out of their annuity.37 This request, coming from the truculent Miami,
                    gave Hays almost his first feeling of accomplishment to balance against many frustrations.
            In October, for the second time, he paid the Miami annuity. The occasion had a less explosive quality
                    in 1821 
                  
                     35 Hays to Calhoun, July 19, 1821, NA, Int. Dept, Ind. Aff., Mich.
                            Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     36 Kercheval to Cass, June 13, 1822, Hays to Cass, July 8, 1822,
                            Calhoun to Cass, August 16, 1822, ibid.; Metea to the President, July 12,
                            1822, Cass to Calhoun, September 11, 1822, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     37 Hays to Cass, October 10, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                            Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Calhoun to Hays, November 13, 1821, NA, Int.
                            Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec. War Letter Book E.
               
                     than in 1820, partly because the Indians trusted Hays to make a
                    fair division and partly because sickness kept many of them from attending.38
                    With the payment over, Hays intended to take his daughter home and leave the agency in
                    Kercheval's hands. The thought of resigning again occupied his mind,39
                    but new orders from 
                        Washington
                     thwarted him. The Wea and Kickapoo on the 
                        Wabash
                     above 
                        Vincennes
                     had recently ceded their lands and most of them had moved beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The agency which served them was discontinued, and Hays was ordered to take over the
                    records. When he reached 
                        Vincennes
                    , the retiring agent, William Prince, was not ready to make the transfer. Hays went on
                    to Cahokia and there was stricken with an illness that kept him bedfast through the winter.40
            
            In May, 1822, he returned to 
                        Vincennes
                    . There were still 170 Wea and 523 Kickapoo on the 
                        Wabash
                    , all determined to remain until removed by force, and all determined to forego their
                    annuities rather than receive them on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Could they be paid at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , or at Fort Harrison near 
                        Terre Haute
                    ? To refuse meant that they, like the Potawatomi, would visit the British whenever
                    opportunity offered; to grant their request would complicate the machinery of payments. Disliking
                    both alternatives, Calhoun gave Hays the hopeless task of cajoling the Indians into going west.41
            
            Back at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Hays found the agency funds in a deplorable state. The government was two full
                    quarters behind with its allowance and the clamor of creditors was loud and angry. Among them was
                    Benjamin Levell, unfortunate builder of the Miami mills, who had been summoned to make new repairs.
                    Hays settled his long-standing account after an examination which indicated that what the mills
                    needed most was someone to look after them.42
            
            
               
                  38 Hays to Cass, October 20, 1821, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  39 Hays to Cass, September, 2, 15, October 20, 1821, ibid.
               
                  40 Hays to Cass, April 16, 1822, ibid.; Hays to Calhoun,
                        April 22, 1822, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  41 Hays to Calhoun, May 15, 1822, ibid.; Hays to Cass,
                        July 8, 23, August 11, 1822, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters
                        Rec'd; Calhoun to Hays, July 18, 1822, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec. War Letter Book
                        E.
               
                  42 Kercheval to Cass, April 1, June 8, 1822, Hays to Cass, July 8, 1822,
                        NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich. Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
            
            
            Isaac McCoy proposed a solution. His church board wanted to establish a new mission among the Miami.
                    Why not locate it at the mills and let a missionary serve as miller? Hays and Cass liked the idea,
                    but McCoy could not find a qualified person willing to accept the position; and having been
                    appointed superintendent of a school for the Potawatomi at 
                        St. Joseph
                    's, 
                        Michigan
                    , he could not take it. The failure of this scheme left the mills as before, unguarded
                    and unused.43
            
            In July, Hays learned that the agency allowance would be $3,600—better than
                    last year's but still short of what he needed. "Stricter economy can not be used,
                    than what I have heretofore used," he wrote to Cass. "I refuse the Indians almost
                    every article they ask for, the Indians are much surprised at the sudden change….they
                    say, they were formerly accustomed to obtain what they asked for. it is very
                        unpleasant…."44
            
            Cass could only advise continued economy. He suggested that Hays reduce expenses by allowing each
                    chief to receive and distribute the annuity money for his village. But the Indians had tried this
                    method, and their chiefs had "entrapped" them.45 They
                    assembled at the fort late in September and stayed for ten days. Early in the summer McCoy had
                    induced most of the settlers to join a temperance society, but it was never effective. Some of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     traders and all the outsiders who came to the payment brought their usual stock of
                    liquor. There were six murders.46
            
            A more cheerful aspect of the payment was the willingness with which the Miami paid their debts for
                    farming equipment and asked for more. "I have succeeded in getting that Tribe…to
                    cultivate the Earth," Hays wrote with satisfaction, and listed the villages where fencing
                    had been begun and a few log houses built—Turtle Town, on Eel River; the Forks of the 
                        Wabash
                    ; and White Raccoon's village. 
                  
                     43 McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions,
                            123–24, 145–51; Cass to McCoy, July 16, 1822, Cass to Hays, July 16,
                            1822, NA, War Dept., Sec. War, Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     44 Hays to Cass, July 20, 1822, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                            Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
                  
                     45 Hays to Cass, August 11, 1822, ibid.
                  
                  
                     46 Hays to Cass, July 20, 1822, ibid.; McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions, 164.
               
                     "At this village," said Hays, "they
                    have twenty head of Cattle, and some Hogs, and they raise corn sufficient to accommodate Travellers
                    that may pass the road, they can give a good breakfast or Dinner, they make butter &c. and
                    raise numbers of chickens. I expect ere long many will follow their example, and be Industrious.47
            
            Hays stayed the winter through at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and then resigned. Rheumatism and fevers had depleted his strength; he could no longer
                    endure the fatiguing journeys to and from Cahokia, and he hoped for an appointment nearer home. He
                    sent his resignation to 
                        Washington
                     by Benjamin Kercheval, whom he confidently expected to succeed him. But he had
                    indiscreetly let word get about that he intended to resign, and the Indiana delegates in Congress
                    moved swiftly to put their own appointee into office. Hays learned with bitter disappointment of
                    their success. Not his friend Kercheval, who knew the agency and could be trusted to carry out his
                    policies, but a stranger named John 
                        Tipton
                     was to succeed him.48
            
            In a friendly letter expressing regret at Hays' resignation, Calhoun asked him to stay until
                    after the Miami annuity payment.49 This was an added disappointment, for he was
                    anxious to be off as soon as possible. He instructed the chiefs to come to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in May for their money. Cass disapproved, for the early payment would take the Indians
                    from the fields at corn planting time and might cost them their crop. He urged the agent to remain
                    until autumn and make the payment at the usual time.50
            
            But Hays was in a frankly rebellious mood: "it certainly would be one of the hardest cases
                    in a free government like ours was I compelled to remain at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     untill August, through the most oppressive heat of Summer, and most sickly season. I
                    certainly might bid a final adieu to ever seeing my family…as the last summer I
                    Experienced severe Indisposition, and…should I attempt to remain 
                  
                     47 Hays to Calhoun, February 24, 1823, John 
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 296–98. See also McCoy, History of
                                Baptist Indian Missions, 129–30.
                  
                     48 Hays to Calhoun, February 24, 1823, Hays to Cass, April 17, 1823,
                                John 
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 298–300, 303–04.
                  
                     49 Calhoun to Hays, March 28, 1823, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec.
                            War Letter Book E.
                  
                     50 Cass to Hays, April 23, 1823, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec. War,
                            Letters Rec'd; Hays to Cass, May 7, 182.3, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                            Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
               
                     at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     the present summer….I should not be able to get Home."51
            
            John 
                        Tipton
                     reached 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by May 16 and waited impatiently for Hays to complete his duties.52
                    As Cass had surmised would be the case, the Indians were busy in the cornfields and took their own
                    time about coming to the fort. Stragglers hung about for days, whisky flowed potently, and the usual
                    number of tomahawkings made Hays glad that his connection with the agency was nearly over. In the
                    first week of June he completed the payment and relinquished his office to 
                        Tipton
                    .53
            
            For three years he had lived in an atmosphere of squalor and trickery and sudden death. He had
                    conducted the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     agency with notable integrity in a period reeking with scandals of misappropriated
                    funds and ugly deals between agents and traders. His superiors lamented the resignation of a man who
                    had served them "honourably, faithfully and disinterestedly."54 What had he accomplished toward the solution of the Indian problem? Almost every incident
                    of his life at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was colored by the drama of danger or privation, but the sum total was significant only
                    as the efforts of one battalion are significant in the course of a total war.
            He turned his face homeward to Cahokia the day after transferring the agency to 
                        Tipton
                    , and there he spent his remaining years in the cultivation of his extensive lands and
                    in the quiet happiness of association with his family and friends.55
            
            
               
                  51 Hays to Cass, May 7, 1823, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd.
               
                  52 Hays to 
                            Tipton
                        , April 21, 1823, 
                            Tipton
                         to Cass, May 16, 1823, Hays to 
                            Tipton
                        , May 19, 1823, John 
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 304–05, 306–07, 308–09.
               
                  53 Keating (comp.), Narrative…1823, I,
                        81–82, 124–27; Hays to Cass, May 31, 1823, NA, Int. Dept, Ind. Aff., Mich.
                        Supt'cy, Letters Rec'd; Hays, receipt for salary to June 5, 1823, 
                            Tipton
                         Papers.
               
                  54 Cass to Hays, March 7, 1823, NA, Int. Dept., Ind. Aff., Sec. War,
                        Letters Rec'd.
               
                  55 The date of John Hays' death has not been found, nor was his
                        will discovered in the records of the 
                            St. Clair County
                         Probate Court. Papers relating to the administration of his estate indicate that he
                        died in or before 1836. See letter of E. C. Schobert, deputy clerk, Belleville, 
                            Illinois
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Territorial Expenditures, 1800–1816
            BY DONALD F. CARMONY
            At the close of the American Revolution, Great Britain ceded to the 
                        United States
                     the area which, roughly speaking, lay between the Allegheny Mountains and the
                        Mississippi River. As a result of this cession, the problem of evolving a
                    colonial policy for this extensive region was transferred from 
                        London
                     across the Atlantic to the American capital at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . In this, as in many other problems, the infant American Republic based its policy upon
                    British precedents.
            Four years after the formal completion of this cession, on July 13, 1787, the Confederation Congress
                    approved an ordinance for the organization and government of the Territory of the 
                        United States
                     Northwest of the River 
                        Ohio
                    .1 Although this ordinance applied solely to the Northwest
                    Territory, its basic principles were subsequently applied to all American territory westward to the
                        Pacific.2
            
            This original Northwest Territory included the present states of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and a part of 
                        Minnesota
                    .3 According to the ordinance, this area and its subsequent
                    divisions were to evolve from a first or non-representative stage of government into a second or
                    representative stage in which some residents would have a part in the election of members of the
                    lower house of the Territorial Assembly. Although this second stage of government was similar to
                    that which existed in the royal and proprietary colonies on the eve of the American Revolution, it
                    was merely the last step preparatory to statehood. It was provided that the territory should
                    eventually be divided into not less than three nor more than five states. It was this promise of
                    statehood which most distinguished the new American colonial policy from the previous British
                    policy.
            
               
                  1 The 1787 ordinance is in: Francis N. Thorpe (ed.), The
                            Federal and State Constitution…(7 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1909), II, 957–62; and Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in Indiana (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, I, II, XVII, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916, 1930), I, 26–33.
               
                  2 Andrew C. McLaughlin, The Confederation and the
                            Constitution, 1784–1789 (American Nation Series, X, 
                            New York
                        , 1905), 120–22.
               
                  3 For a map of this area see George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State and County (Indiana Historical Collections, XIX, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1933), 137.
            
            
            Soon after the approval of the ordinance, Congress appointed Governor Arthur St. Clair and Judges
                    Samuel H. Parsons, James M. Varnum, and John Cleves Symmes to inaugurate the first stage of
                    government for the Old Northwest.4 For a decade these men and their successors
                    had almost complete charge of territorial affairs. During this period the American settlements,
                    within the territory, were made principally in the eastern area which soon became the state of 
                        Ohio
                    . Conditions of transportation and communication and the location of the early
                    settlements were such that the more remote inhabitants were unable to share equally in the benefits
                    of the new regime.
            Not long after the arrival of the governor and judges, there had developed some agitation for a
                    division of the territory.5 In 1798 Governor St. Clair decided that there were
                    enough freemen to justify his proclaiming the transition to the second stage of government.6 This change resulted in increased taxes to pay for the additional cost of the
                    Assembly, public printing, and miscellaneous items.7 The increased taxes
                    provided another incentive to the demand for division, since residents of the more remote areas did
                    not wish to pay taxes to support a government which seemed to give little, if any, benefit to them.
            In March, 1800, Congress received two memorials from the western part of the Northwest Territory.
                    Both complained of enormous taxes and asked for a division of the territory which would return their
                    area to the less expensive first stage of government. The first petition came from George Tevebaugh
                    and two hundred residents8 of 
                        Knox
                    
                    
                  
                     4 Clarence E. Carter (ed.), Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934-), I, 25–26.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Randolph
                             C. Dowries, Frontier 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1788–180.-1 (
                                Ohio
                             Historical Collections, III, 
                                Columbus
                            , 1935), 147–76.
                  
                     6 The proclamation is in "Journal of Executive Proceedings in
                            the Territory Northwest of the River 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Carter, Territorial Papers, III,
                            514–15.
                  
                     7 Jacob Burnet, Notes on the Early Settlement of the
                                Northwestern Territory (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1847), 301, 313; Clarence W. Alyord, The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country, 1773–1818 (The Centennial History of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , I, 
                                Springfield
                            , 1920), 406–07; William A. Rawles, Centralizing
                                Tendencies in the Administration of Indiana (
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in Political Science, XVII, No. 1, 
                                New York
                            , 1903), 250. For the tax laws see Theodore C. Pease (ed.), The
                                Laws of the Northwest Territory, 1788–1800 (
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, XVII, 
                                Springfield
                            , 1925), 467–78, 478–94.
                  
                     8 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 3n.
               
                     County.9 These memorialists stated that
                    they "experience all the hardships resulting from an enormous territorial tax, to the
                    discharge of which, they are perfectly inadequate…." They, therefore, prayed
                    that Congress would make a judicious division of the territory and not only relieve them of
                    "the heavy territorial taxes" but also bring justice closer to the door of each
                        individual.10 This petition was read in the lower house of Congress on March
                    14 and then laid upon the table.11
            
            The second petition came from seventy-two inhabitants of the 
                        Illinois
                     Country. It stated that their region had been rich and happy from its first settlement
                    until the American conquest in 1778, that from then until 1790 the area had been neglected and left
                    without either laws or government, nor had the anticipated relief been experienced with the
                    establishment of the territorial government in 1790.12 It was claimed that only
                    a few years previous the petitioners had been more wealthy and prosperous than their Spanish
                    neighbors, who lived across the Mississippi River; but now the situation was
                    reversed, for their once prosperous colony had become poor and miserable. The 
                        Illinois
                     memorialists knew of the increased fiscal burdens, caused by the adoption of the second
                    grade, for they protested: 
                        That spirit of Industry which actuated them while under the immediate Care of the officers
                            appointed to govern them and which gave spring to their Efforts, is no more. Agriculture is
                            but feebly carried on and the Indian Trade may be said to be entirely decayed; They have no
                            circulating medium among them and therefore feel themselves unable to pay the Taxes lately
                            imposed by the Legislature of the Territory, neither in fact is there a sufficiency of
                            specie in the whole Country to pay even one years Taxes—….
                     The petitioners considered a return of their area to the first stage of government as
                    necessary to rescue them from their miserable situation. They suggested that the 
                  
                     9 In 1800 
                                Knox County
                             included most of the present Indiana area and also most of the eastern half of
                            the present state of 
                                Illinois
                            . See map in Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, 519.
                  
                     10 The 
                                Knox County
                             memorial is in Carter, Territorial Papers, VII,
                            3–4. It was dated January 1, 1800.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 4n.
                  
                     12 Although the Northwest Territorial government was inaugurated in
                            the spring of 1788, its substance was slow in reaching the more remote western
                        settlements.
               
                     parent territory be divided by a meridian drawn through the
                    mouth of the Great Miami River.13
            
            This memorial was received by the House of Representatives about two weeks after the 
                        Knox County
                     petition had been laid upon the table.14 William Henry Harrison,
                    then Territorial Delegate of the Northwest Territory, presented the 
                        Illinois
                     memorial to the house, where it was referred to a committee of which he was made a
                    member. The subsequent discussion in Congress, concerning division, made use of material contained
                    in this memorial.15 Both the 
                        Knox
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     petitions, no doubt, represented the viewpoint of the French who constituted most of
                    the population of the territory west of the Miami meridian.16
            
            Another factor involving financial considerations which contributed to a division of the area was the
                    need for an increase in the number of judges for the Northwest Territory. The judicial system had
                    been the subject of much complaint from the very beginning of the territorial government.17 The situation was explained in a letter which St. Clair wrote to a fellow
                    Federalist late in 1799. The governor recommended that the territory be divided, since it would be
                    necessary in either case to increase the number of federal judges for the region. St. Clair
                    explained, although not quite accurately, that the additional cost arising from a division would be
                    a mere trifle, "the salary of one governor."18 At the same
                    time, Harrison was also working for a reform of the judiciary. One of his first acts, as territorial
                    delegate, was the introduction of a resolution calling for the appointment of a committee to study
                    this problem. Such 
                  
                     13 Carter, Territorial Papers, III,
                            76–78, gives the memorial with names attached. The petition was dated
                            "ILLINOIS 7th February 1800."
                  
                     14
                            Annuls, 6 Cong., 1 Sess., 645; Carter, Territorial
                            Papers, VII, 4n.
                  
                     15 The following citations trace the discussion over the passage of
                            the bill creating Indiana Territory: Annals, 6 Cong., 1 Sess., House: 194,
                            198, 245, 507, 583, 632–33, 649, 676, 679, 684, 691, 698–700 and
                            Senate: 147–48, 161, 163–64, 167–69, 173 and appendix
                            1320–21.
                  
                     16 Alvord, The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country, 407–08.
                  
                     17 Downes, Frontier 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 163–76.
                  
                     18 St. Clair to James Ross, December, 1799, in William H. Smith (ed.),
                                The St. Clair Papers (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1882), II, 481–84. According to Downes, Frontier 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 82, 172, Ross was one of the founders of Steubenville, 
                                Ohio
                            . It would have cost no more to have had six judges, with or without a division,
                            but the division resulted in congressional appropriations for another governor, secretary,
                            and contingent fund.
               
                     a committee was appointed with Harrison as a member, and it
                    evolved into the committee on a division of the Northwest Territory.19
            
            On May 7, 1800, President John Adams approved an act which created the Indiana Territory. By the
                    first section of this act the new territory was made to include all of that part of the parent
                    territory which lay west of a line beginning at the 
                        Ohio
                    , opposite the mouth of the Kentucky River, running thence direct
                    to Fort Recovery and from there due north to 
                        Canada
                    .20 The newly established territory was to be governed according to
                    the provisions of the Ordinance of 1787, and the inhabitants therein were promised all the benefits
                    and privileges granted in this fundamental document. The structure of the new government was to be
                    identical with that of the original area. Indiana was exempted from the requirement that there must
                    be five thousand free male inhabitants before the second stage could be adopted. This stage should
                    be assumed whenever the governor had satisfactory evidence that a majority of the freeholders wished
                    to make such a change. 
                        Vincennes
                    , on the 
                        Wabash
                    , was to remain the capital until it was ordered otherwise by the local legislature. The
                    organization of the territory was to become effective on July 4 following, which was the
                    twenty-fourth anniversary of American independence.21 By this act the residents
                    of the Indiana Territory were returned to the less expensive first stage of government; and the
                    judicial system was also improved, since the new arrangement called for three judges in each
                    territory.
            Secretary John Gibson, who inaugurated the first stage of government for Indiana, recorded in the
                    first sentence of of the Executive Journal of the Territory under date of July 4: 
                        This day the Government of the Indiana Territory commenced, William Henry Harrison having
                            been appointed Governor, John Gibson Secretary, William Clarke, Henry 
                                Vanderburgh
                             and John Griffin Judges in and over [the] said territory.22
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     19 See citations listed in footnote 15 above.
                  
                     20 See Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, 139,
                            for a map of Indiana in 1800.
                  
                     21 For a copy of the act creating Indiana Territory, see: U.S. Statutes at Large, II, 58–59; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 41–43.
                  
                     22 "Journal of the Proceedings of the Executive Government of
                            the Indiana Territory," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, edited by William Wesley Woollen, Daniel W. Howe, and Jacob P. Dunn (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 91.
               
                     Despite the date of this entry, it is probable that Gibson did
                    not arrive at 
                        Vincennes
                     until later in July.23 The officials enumerated in
                    Gibson's entry were the most important officers of this non-representative stage, and all
                    were appointees of the federal government. The governor, as chief executive and superintendent of
                    Indian affairs, exercised very great authority. He and the judges constituted the legislature, and
                    according to the 1787 ordinance, this legislature was required to adopt its laws from the codes of
                    the original states. Serving in their judicial capacity, the judges were at times called upon to
                    review laws which they had helped frame. The secretary kept the record of the executive
                        proceedings24 and at times served as acting governor. A treasurer25 and an attorney general,26 appointed by Governor Harrison
                    early in 1801,27 were apparently the only other officials at this stage. This
                    government was entirely non-representative, but it was well suited to the situation within the
                    territory for its population was sparse and scattered.28 The simplicity of the
                    governmental structure at this stage is suggestive of the very limited financial expenditures which
                    were required for its maintenance.
            The expenditures of this stage were even more limited than would be anticipated from the above
                    survey. The governor received $2,000, the secretary, $750, and each of the
                    three judges, $800 annually.29 Congress made appropriations for these
                    salaries and also appropriated $350 yearly as a contingent fund for the infant
                        territory.30 It is reasonable 
                  
                     23 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 17n.
                  
                     24 Gibson served as secretary during all of the territorial period.
                            For his appointments see Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 17n. The
                            Executive Journal, kept by Gibson, is very incomplete. Frequently the record for several
                            months is included within a few lines, while entries were at times made long after the
                            passing of the events recorded. The original is in the State Archives at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     25 "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," in
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 101.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 95.
                  
                     27 Harrison's appointment as governor was confirmed on May
                            12, 1800, but he did not arrive at 
                                Vincennes
                             until January 10, 1801. For the details concerning this appointment, see
                            Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 13n–16n.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 24–25; Logan Esarey, History of
                            Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924), I, 175–76.
                  
                     29
                            U. S. Statutes at Large, I, 67–68.
                  
                     30
                            bid., II, 83–84, 117–21, 184–88,
                            210–15, 264–69. A summary table of these appropriations is in Donald
                            F. Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826 (Ph.D. Thesis, Indiana University,
                            1940), 61.
               
                     to assume that most, if not all, of these appropriations were
                    expended. Hence, it may be concluded that the federal government contributed about $5,500
                    yearly for the above-suggested salaries and contingent fund. There is no doubt that the salary
                    compensation to the governor and judges would have been very much less had such been provided from
                    the territorial treasury.
            Although the expenditures just noted seem exceedingly small, they were large when contrasted to the
                    appropriations which were supplied by the territory from its own revenues. The salary of the
                    territorial treasurer and attorney general were so small as to be almost negligible. A law of 1801
                    allowed the treasurer six per cent of his collections, but six per cent of a very small sum is a
                    very much smaller sum.31 Late in 1802 a resolution adopted by the 
                        Vincennes
                     pro-slavery convention stated that the attorney general had not yet received any
                    compensation for his services, nor could the territory assure him any remuneration for his future
                        services.32 The combined "salaries" of these two officials
                    were very meager; however, they probably benefited from the very common practice of pluralism,33 and it may be assumed that they had private sources of income.
            The governor and judges sat four times as a legislative body, but they did not adopt many laws.34 Thus the cost of printing these laws was not very great. The laws of the
                    first session, held in 1801, were printed at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , the
                    following year.35 Those of the remaining sessions, held in 1802 and 1803, were
                    printed at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804 by Editor Elihu Stout.36 Stout's volume was
                    probably 
                  
                     31 Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801–1809 (
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, XXI, 
                                Springfield
                            , 1931), 16–17. According to its title, this law was
                            "adopted" from the 
                                Kentucky
                             code and "published" at 
                                Vincennes
                            , January 26, 1801. The revenues of this period are discussed in detail in
                            Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 57–98.
                  
                     32 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII, IX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), I, 66–67.
                  
                     33 Examples of pluralism may be found in "Executive Journal
                            of Indiana Territory," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, passim. See also Esarey, History of
                                Indiana, I, 176.
                  
                     34 John G. Rauch and Nellie C. Armstrong, A Bibliography
                                of the Laws of Indiana, 1788–1927 (Indiana Historical Collections, XVI, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1928), 8. The laws may all be found in Philbrick, Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1–87.
                  
                     35 Rauch and Armstrong, Bibliography: Laws of
                            Indiana, 8.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 8. It was at this time that Stout commenced publication of the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, Indiana's first newspaper.
               
                     the first book printed in Indiana Territory.37 Most of this printing cost was apparently cared for from the contingent fund, supplied by
                    the federal government; however, part of the expense may have been paid for out of the territorial
                        treasury.38
            
            Miscellaneous expenditures were required for various items. The first legislature appropriated four
                    dollars per day to Henry Hurst, the clerk, and allowed him a reasonable amount for stationery
                    purchased for his services as clerk.39 Hurst served in this capacity at other
                    times and probably received the same or similar pay.40 One of the last laws
                    approved by the governor and judges authorized the governor to pay for public postage out of the
                    territorial treasury.41 In 1802 Harrison issued a proclamation offering a reward
                    of $300 for the apprehension of one who had escaped from the 
                        Knox County
                     jail, or $100 for information about an accomplicc.42 If
                    any reward was paid, pursuant to this proclamation, the meager means of the Indiana treasury suggest
                    that it was probably paid from the contingent fund supplied by Congress. Another law authorized the
                    chief executive to draw upon the local treasury for the cost of having secured a fugitive from
                    justice from the state of 
                        Tennessee
                    .43 Other miscellaneous items of expense for supplies, rent,
                    postage, and so forth were perhaps largely paid for from the federally supplied contingent fund.44 From the meager information available, it appears that the total annual
                    expenditure from the Indiana treasury did not average 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 8. "This was the first book printed in the Territory of
                            Indiana."
                  
                     38
                            
                                Madison
                             to Harrison, Department of State, December 21, 1803, in Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 160; 
                                Madison
                             to Harrison, Department of State, April 16, 1804, in ibid.,
                            189–90; Harrison to Secretary of State 
                                Madison
                            , July 7, 1802, in Esarey, Harrison Papers, I,
                            49–50; 
                                Madison
                             to Harrison, Department of State, June 14, 1804, in ibid.,
                            95–96; Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 85.
                  
                     39 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 20.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, September 11, 1804, contains a statement of Hurst that he
                            had lost a warrant, drawn by the governor for the former's services as legislative
                            clerk in January of 1802 and September of 1803.
                  
                     41 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 87.
                  
                     42 "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," in
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 108–09.
                  
                     43 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            83–84.
                  
                     44 See citations to Harrison-
                                Madison
                             correspondence in footnote 38 above.
               
                     more than $200 at this stage. Even this estimate may
                    be too high. Since the federal government contributed about $5,500 yearly to the
                    territorial expenses of this period, it may then be estimated that the total territorial expenses
                    averaged about $5,700 during the years of the first stage of Indiana's
                    territorial government.45
            
            The fiscal question was much involved in the movement which led from the first to the second stage of
                    territorial government. Opposition to increased taxation was apparently the only important objection
                    to the adoption of the second stage. Most of the information about this transition comes from the
                    columns of Indiana's first newspaper, the Indiana Gazette, which Elihu
                    Stout commenced at 
                        Vincennes
                     in the summer of 1804.46 This newspaper published letters pro and
                    con on the question, but it appears reasonably certain that Editor Stout favored the adoption of the
                    representative level.47
            
            As early as 1802 there had been some agitation for establishment of the second stage. This abortive
                    agitation was probably the result of personal politics within the territory and it was apparently
                    supported by the pro-slavery element.48 At this time Harrison opposed the
                    change, writing a letter stressing the increases in taxes which would result from such a
                        transition.49 The fact that the governor did not then proclaim the adoption
                    of the second stage suggests that he was personally opposed to the movement.50
            
            
               
                  45 Although these estimates are not exactly accurate, it is believed that
                        they are approximately correct. See Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 57–98.
               
                  46 Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 1096; typed MSS of
                        Logan Esarey on early Indiana newspapers. Stout had worked for the editor of the 
                            Frankfort
                        
                        
                     
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette. The Indiana State Library has an almost complete file of The Western Sun, as the Gazette soon came to be called, for
                        the territorial period.
               
                  47 It was probably more than a mere coincidence that Stout began the
                        publication of his paper just before the territory was advanced to the second stage. In this
                        same year Stout published a volume of territorial laws (see footnote 36 above).
               
                  48 Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana, a Redemption from Slavery (
                            Boston
                        , 1888), 299–302; Solon J. Buck, 
                     
                                Illinois
                             in 1818 (
                            Springfield
                        , 1917), 184–86; Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                        xx–xxiii.
               
                  49 Dorothy B. Goebel, William Henry Harrison (Indiana
                        Historical Collections, XIV, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1926), 76; Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 81n–82n.
               
                  50 Under the 1800 law, creating Indiana Territory, the governor was
                        empowered to proclaim the representative stage "whenever satisfactory evidence shall be
                        given the Governor thereof that such is the
            
            
            The Executive Journal of the territory, under date of August 4, 1804, recorded the issuance of a
                    proclamation by Governor Harrison, which called for a referendum on September 11 to ascertain the
                    attitude of the freeholders concerning the assumption of the second stage.51 The
                    first issue of the Indiana Gazette, following the recording of this proclamation, contained an
                    article by "Freeholder" criticizing the governor for usurpation of power in
                    calling for the referendum.52 "Freeholder" identified himself
                    as William McIntosh,53 whom the governor had appointed as the first territorial
                        treasurer.54 McIntosh was soon answered by "Gerald," who
                    was probably Benjamin Parke, the recently appointed attorney general of the territory.55 "Gerald" replied: 
                        It is said that the expence of the second stage of government will be inevitable ruin to the
                            territory; to this objection there is some weight; but it vanishes when the subject is
                            properly investigated. We have one million of acres of land from which we may raise a fund
                            to support the establishment…. it will be taxed as first, second, and third rate;
                            and I may safely calculate upon fifty cents per acre as the average product [valuation not
                            yield]; this will not be a burdensome tax as few farmers will have more than from two to
                            three dollars to pay…[and] we shall obtain an immediate revenue of five thousand
                            dollars, this surely will defray all expences that will necessarily be incurred by the
                            measure. But our country is 
                        wish of a majority of the freeholders, notwithstanding that there may not be
                                    therein five thousand free male inhabitants of the age of twenty-one years and
                                    upwards…." Had Harrison favored the movement, he could have
                                    found a majority in its favor.
                        
                           51 "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory,"
                                    in Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 124. It was recorded that this was
                                    done in response to sundry petitions from persons styling themselves freeholders.
                        
                           52
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                     Indiana Gazette, August 7, 1804.
                        
                           53 Sometimes spelled William Mackintosh.
                        
                           54
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Indiana Gazette, September 11, 1804. McIntosh was territorial
                                    treasurer from 1801 until 1805.
                        
                           55 In ibid., September 11, 1804, McIntosh
                                    charged that Parke was "Gerald." This accusation was probably true
                                    although "Gerald" seems to have concealed his identity from the
                                    readers of the Gazette. Parke was appointed attorney general on
                                    August 4; see "Executive Journal of the Indiana Territory," in
                                    Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 124, for this
                                    appointment. William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                        Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1883), 3–9, has a copy of an unfinished and unsigned
                                    letter, dated at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , September 5, 1808, which was probably written by Parke. This letter
                                    strongly defended the transition to the second stage. During the fall of 1804 there
                                    was discussion about a proposed "affair of honor" between Parke
                                    and McIntosh, but apparently a duel was avoided. See 
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Indiana Gazette for this period about the talked-of duel.
                     
                             rapidly increasing in population and wealth, and this
                            ratio of taxation may soon be diminished.
                    
            
            "Gerald" favored the principle of liberal salaries but warned that existing
                    circumstances would not admit of generosity and that no "upstart seeking an office, need
                    flatter himself with acquiring property by gaining an appointment…." The annual
                    cost of the second grade was estimated as not more than $3,500. Members of the Assembly
                    would receive but one dollar per day; while the treasurer and auditor would divide $200
                    annually between them, and the attorney general would receive $200 for the same period of
                        time.56 "Gerald" estimated that the annual printing bill
                    would not exceed $1,000 for several years and that an equal sum would provide for the
                    yearly cost of such items as rent, fuel, and pay to Assembly officers. This would leave
                    "upwards" of $1,000 as an annual contingent fund. He was confident that
                    there were those who would serve the territory at the salaries suggested. The criticism of his
                    opponents was anticipated: 
                        But I shall be told that I know nothing of the matter; that this system of economy can never
                            be practiced; the north western territory will be cited as an example!! I assert that many
                            of the members of the first legislature of that territory still deserve the contempt and
                            execration of the people. A junto of inflated, bombastic fools, they appropriated and
                            squandered the public money with the most profligate prodigality; Look at the acts of
                            appropriation of 1799 !!57
                  
                     Lastly, he recommended that the debt due 
                        Ohio
                     could be paid when Indiana's treasury became overflowing. In any case 
                        Ohio
                     could not compel payment.58 Such was
                    "Gerald's" 
                  
                     56 If "Gerald" was Parke, he may well have been
                            influenced by personal considerations in recommending a compensation to the attorney general
                            equal to the combined pay of the treasurer and auditor.
                  
                     57 Pease, Laws of the Northwest Territory,
                            511–16. The appropriation act of this legislature granted a sum not to exceed
                            $2,000, plus 50c per copy, for printing the laws and journals; $500 to
                            the governor for extraordinary services; $400 each to the attorney general and
                            treasurer; $450 to the auditor; $200 to Arthur St. Clair for house
                            rent; not exceeding $12,000 to members of the Assembly; and a sum not exceeding
                            $2,000 for the collection of the land tax, plus several miscellaneous items,
                            mostly less than $100 in amount. These sums are considerable when contrasted to
                            Indiana appropriations of either the first or second stage.
                  
                     58 No hint was given concerning the nature of this debt, but it may
                            have resulted from a failure of the Indiana area to pay taxes levied by the Northwest
                            Territory prior to the separation in 1800.
               
                     defense of the proposed second stage of government.59 No doubt the increase in both offices and salaries, associated with the
                    advance to the new level, influenced many leaders to favor the transition.
            One week after the appearance of "Gerald's" article the Gazette reported
                    that a well-attended meeting of 
                        Knox County
                     inhabitants had agreed upon an address to the freeholders, advocating entrance to the
                    second stage, with only one dissenting vote. Colonel Francis Vigo, who had given financial aid to
                    Clark during the latter's western campaign of 1778–1779, was the chairman of
                    this meeting; and the address adopted was very similar in content to the article by
                    "Gerald." The 
                        Knox County
                     address cited some advantages of the proposed second grade and explained certain
                    financial aspects of the transition. It emphasized that the governor and judges were unable to adopt
                    a well-regulated system of finance under the existing system, as codes of the other states were
                    unsatisfactory in most respects. It was claimed that the rates were too high in some of these codes,
                    that the manner of collection was improper in others, while some of them lacked desirable
                        exemptions.60 It was suggested that a representative legislature could
                    remedy these evils and also the unequal mode of taxation "by which a man who does not own a
                    foot of land, pays as much and often more taxes, than his neighbor who has several thousand acres of
                    land in the territory, for which he does not pay a cent."61
            
            The 
                        Knox County
                     address estimated that the second grade would cost about $3,500 annually,
                    the same estimate as had been made by "Gerald." It also supported the principle of
                    liberal salaries, but added that circumstances would not then allow such to be paid. The detailed
                    estimates of the address were strikingly similar to those indicated by "Gerald."
                    Legislators were to be allowed one dollar per day; but even if they sat seventy days annually, this
                    expense would be less than $1,000 per year. The salaries proposed for the treasurer,
                    auditor, and attorney general were identical 
                  
                     59
                            
                                Vincennes
                             Indiana Gazette, August 21, 1804.
                  
                     60 It will be recalled that the authority of the governor and judges
                            was limited to the adoption of laws from the codes of original states, although in practice
                            this restriction was sometimes ignored.
                  
                     61 Land was not taxed for territorial purposes during the first stage.
                            This part of the address was probably an appeal to the prejudice against land
                        speculators.
               
                     with those suggested by "Gerald." The
                    printing expense was considered uncertain, but it would not exceed $1,000 yearly for four
                    or five years and probably only about one-half of this amount. The pay of officers to the
                    legislature was calculated at $.300 per year; and an equal amount was allowed for rent,
                    fuel, and stationery, leaving $500 yearly to provide for tax collections and
                    contingencies. These figures were considered fair, practical, and candid.
            To discharge these obligations it was calculated that there were about one million acres of land
                    which could be taxed at fifty cents per one hundred acres (or one-half cent per acre), yielding a
                    yearly sum of $5,000. Furthermore, as the population and resources of the territory
                    increased, this ratio of taxation could either be diminished or else a much larger sum could be
                    raised. A revenue of this amount would not be burdensome for: "The rich will pay it; the
                    poor need not complain." Lastly, all lands sold by the federal government would immediately
                    become subject to taxation "and not exempt as has been perfidiously stated by designing
                        individuals."62 In view of these various factors, the address urged
                    the immediate adoption of the second stage.63
            
            "Citizen" wrote an article for the Gazette in which it was
                    claimed that the governor did not believe it wise or expedient "to assume the second grade
                    of government at the present time when their resources are so inadequate to the expence with which
                    it will necessarily be attended."64 Although Harrison does not appear
                    to have taken any public part in this agitation, he apparently favored the proposed change.65 There is some evidence indicating that land speculators opposed the entrance
                    to the representative grade. At 
                  
                     62 In 1803 
                                Ohio
                             became a state and, by terms of a compact with the federal government, agreed
                            to a five-year tax exemption clause for lands sold within 
                                Ohio
                            . A similar policy was inaugurated in Indiana when statehood was achieved.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, August 28, 1804, has minutes of the 
                                Knox County
                             meeting and the address to the freeholders.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., August 28, 1804.
                  
                     65 See Parke (?) letter in Woollen, Biographical and
                                Historical Sketches of Early Indiana, 7, stating that Harrison favored the
                            transition. 
                                Knox County
                             would not have given 163 affirmative votes to only 12 negative votes had the
                            governor been opposed to the movement. Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 182,
                            agrees with this view.
               
                     least after the transition had been made, Harrison wrote
                    Jefferson, alleging that some of them had spread falsehoods to defeat the measure.66 A subsequent editorial in The Western Sun, as the Indiana Gazette had
                    come to be called, supported this view of the governor. The Sun contended that a majority of the
                    people were in favor of the second grade and felt no inconvenience from it, while it was the
                    "land jobbers" and speculators who were apprehensive of the fate of "poor
                    deluded Indiana."67 General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, an important territorial leader, later claimed that the second grade was
                    adopted to escape from the system of taxation without representation which had existed under the
                    first or non-representative stage;68 but neither the article by
                    "Gerald" nor the 
                        Knox County
                     address suggested this idea, which was probably not actively discussed at the time.
            The referendum vote of the freeholders was taken on September 11, but only about 400 votes were cast
                    in the entire territory. In the present 
                        Illinois
                     area 
                        Randolph
                     County gave 40 votes for the change and 21 against, while 
                        St. Clair County
                     gave 22 for and 59 against. 
                        Dearborn County
                    , including the "gore" which had been forced into Indiana against its
                    wishes, gave all of its 26 votes against the change. 
                        Clark County
                    , where landholdings may have been larger than average, voted 35 to 13 in favor of the
                    transition. 
                        Knox County
                    , where most of Indiana's political leaders resided (including the governor),
                    gave 163 votes for and only 12 votes against the proposed change. Secretary Gibson indicated that
                    the proclamation calling for the referendum did not reach 
                        Wayne County
                     , of which 
                        Detroit
                     was the political center, in time for a vote to be taken in this section of the
                        territory.69 It is also probable that none of the freeholders in the area
                    now included in Northern 
                        Michigan
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and the eastern 
                  
                     66 Harrison to Jefferson, 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 20, 1805, in Esarey, Harrison Papers, I,
                            174–75.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, September 19, 1807.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., May 12, 1812. This is contained in a statement announcing himself
                            as a candidate for territorial delegate.
                  
                     69 "Executive Journal of the Indiana Territory," in
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 125.
               
                     part of 
                        Minnesota
                     took part in the voting. Outside of 
                        Knox County
                     the vote was about evenly balanced but was in opposition to the change. An analysis of
                    the vote by counties indicates that the more distant ones voted against, while those nearer voted in
                    favor of the transition.70 About two months after the referendum, Governor
                    Harrison proclaimed the formal inauguration of the second stage on December 5, 1804;71 but the substance of the new level was not achieved until almost one year later.72
            
            Apparently most of the residents of 
                        Knox County
                     made little or no objection to the new government. The change, however, was denounced
                    at a meeting of the French inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     in August of 1807. Resolutions were adopted complaining that their burdens had been
                    increased and that they would not support any one for the office of territorial delegate who had
                    favored the adoption of the representative stage. William McIntosh was secretary of this meeting
                    which he may have maneuvered for personal motives.73
            
            The advance of Indiana to the representative level hastened the organization of the 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     territories in 1805 and 1809 respectively. Because of various factors largely
                    associated with geographical conditions, the more remote parts of Indiana Territory were unable to
                    share equally in the benefits of the representative level, although they were apparently asked to
                    share proportionately in its support. The desire of these two regions for their own separate
                    government was no doubt encouraged by local leaders anxious for political plums. It is interesting
                    to note how the agitation about fiscal affairs was in substance repeated as successive territorial
                    divisions and changes in government were made within what had been the original area of the Old
                    Northwest.
            
               
                  70 Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, 141, has a
                        map of Indiana as of 1804. Maps of county boundaries may be located by consulting the index to
                        the same.
               
                  71 The proclamation recorded in "Executive Journal of the Indiana
                        Territory," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 125. For
                        the referendum vote, see Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 182–83.
               
                  72 The first representative legislature did not convene until July 29,
                        1805. Meanwhile, laws of the previous stage remained in effect.
               
                  73
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, August 22, 1807.
            
            
            In 1803 the residents of the 
                        Michigan
                     section sent two memorials to Congress, praying that their area be made a separate
                        territory.74 Congress received these memorials, but a bill to detach the 
                        Michigan
                     area was lost in the lower house early in 1804.75 A house committee
                    had already reported that it would be inexpedient to divide the territory and cause the federal
                    government to take upon itself at this time "the expenses of a separate territorial
                        government…."76
            
            At the next session of Congress, the movement to secure a separate territory for the 
                        Michigan
                     area was successful. On December 5, 1804, the day Harrison proclaimed Indiana a
                    second-grade territory, Representative Thomas Worthington of 
                        Ohio
                     presented a petition from James May and others of the 
                        Detroit
                     area to the lower house of Congress, praying for the establishment of a separate
                    government for their region. This memorial stated that measures were already under way for advancing
                    Indiana to the representative stage" and that this movement, if successful, would greatly
                    add to the tax burdens of the petitioners without adding any proportionate benefits.78 About the same time, the Senate received a similar petition from the
                    Democratic-Republicans of 
                        Wayne County
                     , Indiana Territory.79 Early in January of 1805, President Thomas
                    Jefferson approved a bill, effective June 30 following, which granted the wishes of these
                        memorialists.80 By this act the area north of an east and west line through
                    the southern tip of Lake Michigan and east of this lake was detached from
                    Indiana and designated as 
                        Michigan
                     Territory. Incidentally, the new territory was or- 
                  
                     74 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII,
                            99–106, 118–23.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., 101n.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., 163–64.
                  
                     77 The referendum which resulted in the adoption of the second stage
                            was taken on September 11, 1804. This memorial was dated: "DETROIT the 24th October 1804."
                  
                     78
                            Memorial of the Citizens and Inhabitants of the Indiana Territory, Praying for
                                the Interposition of Congress, to Relieve Them From Certain Oppressions and
                                Embarrassments (
                                Washington
                             City: William Duane & Son, 1804), 6pp. The William H. Smith Memorial
                            Library at 
                                Indianapolis
                             has a copy of this petition. It is also in Carter, Territorial
                                Papers, VII, 227–31.
                  
                     79 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII,
                                240–42.80
                            U. S. Statutes at Large, II, 309–10.
               
                     ganized before taxes were levied to support the representative
                    stage of government in Indiana.
            Since the establishment of Indiana Territory in 1800, residents of the 
                        Illinois
                     Country had been in constant rivalry with those residing east of the 
                        Wabash
                     in what is now southern Indiana.81 Most of the 
                        Illinois
                     inhabitants lived in the fertile American Bottom, which was separated from the eastern
                    settlers by a broad expanse of wilderness country. In 1803 
                        Illinois
                     residents memoralized Congress, pointing out certain inconveniences consequent to their
                    connection with the parent section and asking to be made a part of Upper 
                        Louisiana
                     whenever such a territory should be organized.82 At the first
                    session of Indiana's representative Assembly in 1805, the lower house petitioned Congress
                    against the proposed separation.83
            
            The same Congress received another petition from St. Clair and 
                        Randolph
                     counties, the western area, beseeching a division.84 In response to
                    these memorials a congressional committee reported: 
                        The people of the two sections have lately entered into the second grade of government, the
                            whole expense of which would fall upon the people of one section, if a division were now to
                            be made. This would be neither politic nor just.85
                  
                     Again in the spring of 1808 a committee of the House of Representatives, pursuant to
                    further petitions from the two 
                        Illinois
                     counties, reported division inexpedient. The petitioners, from St. Clair and 
                        Randolph
                     counties, had stated that they were oppressed with taxes which they claimed were spent
                    to the advantage of those who lived in the eastern section of Indiana.86
            
            Late in 1808, despite opposition, the work to divide the territory began to yield results. In October
                    the speaker of the Indiana House presented a petition from John Johnson 
                  
                     81 Alvord, The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country, 422–47; Dunn, Indiana,
                            294–324.
                  
                     82
                            Annals, 8 Cong., 1 Sess., 489; Carter, Territorial
                            Papers, VII, 140–45. See also Isaac Darneille, a signer, to John
                            Breckinridge, Upper 
                        Louisiana,
                                    St. Louis
                     , October 22, 1803, in ibid., 129–40.
                  
                     83
                            Annals, 9 Cong., 1 Sess., 297.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid., 466–68.
                  
                     85
                            Ibid., 466–68.
                  
                     86
                            American State Papers, Miscellaneous, I, 922.
               
                     and others praying that slavery be admitted and the territory
                    remain undivided.87 During this same month, however, the Indiana House adopted a
                    resolution advocating a division by a three to two vote.88 The preamble of this
                    resolution stated that the western area contributed considerably more to the public treasury than
                    the expense of the government which they desired. About one hundred and seventy-five residents of 
                        Knox County
                     memoralized Congress against detachment of the 
                        Illinois
                     area, stating: 
                        It would be unjust,—In the year 1804 the people assumed the second grade of
                            Government—The Question was left to the decision of the people—The
                            inhabitants of the 
                                Mississippi
                             settlements participated in the decision—Those of the County of 
                                Randolph
                             gave a majority of votes in favor—those of St. Clair in opposition
                            to the measure—The taxes incident to the second grade of Government are as great
                            as the people can bear, altho the finances of the Territory have been conducted with the
                            greatest economy—Various circumstances have retarded emigration to the Territory
                            and at present but few people remove to it; and if it should be divided, the people settled
                            east of the Wabash River will have the same burthen to sustain that is
                            now borne by the whole Territory.89
                  
                     About this time approximately two hundred 
                        Knox County
                     citizens sent another petition to President Jefferson, indicating their opposition to
                    the proposed separation. Jefferson was advised that neither division would be able alone to support
                    the second stage.90 The residents of 
                        Randolph
                     and St. Clair counties appear to have been at least as much in favor of the division as
                    the 
                        Knox County
                     petitioners were against it.91
            
            On the last day of the year 1808 a committee of the lower house of Congress reported: 
                        there exists but one objection to the establishment of a separate Territorial Government west
                            of the 
                                Wabash
                            , and that objection is based 
                        
                           87 House Journal, 1808, October 5. Typed copies of territorial
                                    house and council journals, thus far discovered, are in the office of the Historical
                                    Bureau at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . The paging is not uniform so citations are made to the date involved.
                        
                           88
                                    Ibid., October 11. Also in Carter,Territorial
                                    Papers, VII, 601–02.
                        
                           89 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII,
                                    619–22.
                        
                           90
                                    Ibid., 627–30.
                        
                           91
                                    Ibid., 544–45, 545–50, 551–54 for
                                    three memorials from this area urging division.
                     
                             on the additional expense which would in consequence
                            thereof be incurred by the 
                                United States
                            .
                     Despite this objection, a division was recommended, and it was suggested that the
                    additional expense would be more than balanced by the increased value and sale of public land which
                    would be occasioned thereby.92 In February, 1809, President Jefferson approved
                    an act effective March 1 following, which established the 
                        Illinois
                     Territory.93 This territorial subtraction decreased the revenue
                    flowing into the Indiana treasury, but the loss was soon more than compensated by the increased
                    resources and population within Indiana. With the detachment of the 
                        Illinois
                     region, Indiana was reduced to substantially her present boundaries, except for an
                    irregular slice along the western shore of Lake Michigan.94
            
            Indiana was formally in the second stage from December 5, 1804, when Harrison proclaimed the new
                    level, until December 11, 1816, when admitted as a state. The inauguration of the second stage added
                    to but did not destroy any of the structure of the preceding level. The governor, a secretary, and
                    judges continued as appointees of the federal government. The authority and role of the governor
                    were virtually unchanged save that he ceased to be a member of the legislature, although he had an
                    absolute veto over legislation. The secretary continued his dual role as secretary and acting
                    governor in event of an emergency. The three judges ceased to be members of the territorial
                    legislature but still exercised very important judicial duties. The offices of treasurer and
                    attorney general, established in 1801, were continued, but the latter office was abolished in
                        1814.95 From 1805 until 1814 there was a territorial auditor,96 and 
                  
                     92
                            Annals, 10 Cong., 2 Sess., 971–73.
                  
                     93
                            U. S. Statutes at Large, II, 514–16.
                  
                     94 Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries,
                            143–45, for maps showing boundary changes resulting from the divisions of 1805
                            and 1809.
                  
                     95 Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker, The Lawn of
                                Indiana Territory, 1809–1816 (Indiana Historical Collections, XX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 820 and 449–50.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., 821. For a detailed discussion of the men who served the territory
                            as treasurer and auditor, see Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 130–48.
               
                     during most of the period there was also a territorial
                        chancellor.97
            
            The establishment of a representative Assembly was the most important addition to the governmental
                    machinery in the second stage. This body was bicameral with an elected lower house and an upper
                    house appointed by the President of the 
                        United States
                     from nominations made by the lower house.98 When this stage of
                    government was inaugurated, the members of the lower house of the Assembly were the only popularly
                    elected officials of the territorial government. The governor and judges were appointed by the
                    President, and the treasurer, auditor, attorney general, and chancellor were appointed by the
                    governor. The new level resulted in a considerable increase in the amount of legislation,99 making necessary additional legislative officers. At this time the territory
                    also gained the privilege of having a territorial delegate, elected by the Assembly, to represent it
                    in Congress. This delegate had a status about midway between that of a colonial agent and a
                    representative and was compensated by the federal government.100 As a
                    representative of the territory, he could take part in the discussions of the lower house of
                    Congress, serve on its committees, and do about anything a representative could do—except
                    vote. The structure of this second stage of government and even its distribution of authority were
                    very similar to the government of 
                        Virginia
                     while a royal colony.
            The increase in administrative and legislative machinery, pursuant to the adoption of the second
                    stage, was reflected in augmented territorial expenditures, but most of the expenditures were
                    consumed in salary payments. When this 
                  
                     97 Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana, Territory,
                            820.
                  
                     98 In 1809 Congress gave Indiana voters the privilege of electing this
                            upper house or Council, Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                            56–57.
                  
                     99 The laws adopted by the governor and judges are in Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 1–87; those enacted during the
                            second stage are in ibid., 90–681 and Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 89–816. This indicates the contrast
                            in the amount of legislation during the respective periods.
                  
                     100 For his compensation, see U. S. Statutes at
                            Large, II, 88, 130–31, ibid., III, 257–58. For
                            a law of 1809 making this office subject to popular election, see Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 56–57.
               
                     period began, the governor received $2,000, the
                    secretary, $750, and each of the judges, $800 yearly. Beginning January 1,
                    1807, the annual compensation of the judges was increased to $1,200,101 and exactly one year later that of the secretary was raised to $l,000.102 The governor's salary remained unchanged throughout the remainder
                    of Indiana's territorial period, while the federal government continued to appropriate
                    $350 as an annual contingent fund until the second stage was ended. Assuming that these
                    allowances and appropriations were expended, and the assumption is a reasonable one, then, during
                    the years of the second stage the governor received a total of $24,000; the judges,
                    $40,800; the secretary, $11,250; and the contingent fund, $4,200.
                    The above-listed items represent a total estimated expenditure of $80,250 for the
                    twelve-year period, or an annual average of $6,687.50;103 while the
                    same items had cost but $5,500 yearly during the first stage. Salary increases account
                    for the difference in the annual average for the two stages. All of the preceding expenditures were
                    paid for by the federal treasury.104
            
            The expenditures supplied by the territorial treasury totaled only about one-half of the amount
                    arising from the objects just noted. Although the records of territorial finance during this stage
                    are less incomplete than for the preceding stage, only the broad outlines of second-stage finance
                    can be sketched, as official reports and summaries are either missing 
                  
                     101 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana,
                            I, 47. In 1805 the governor, secretary, and judges of Indiana Territory petitioned Congress
                            for additional compensation because of extra services occasioned by their temporary
                            administration of Upper 
                                Louisiana
                             Territory, as may be seen in Esarey, Harrison Papers, I,
                            170–71. See also letter of Judge Thomas T. Davis to Secretary of State
                                    
                        Madison, Danville, Kentucky
                     , April 15, 1804, in Carter, Territorial
                            Papers, VII, 188–89.
                  
                     102 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana,
                            I, 47–48. In 1813 Secretary Gibson unsuccessfully asked Congress for additional
                            compensation because of his services as Acting Governor. His memorial is in Carter, Territorial Papers, VIII, 261.
                  
                     103 For appropriations to the governor, secretary, judges, and
                            contingent fund 1805–1816: U. S. Statutes at Large, II,
                            316–21, 384–89, 432–36, 462–66,
                            520–25, 557–62, 643–48, 686–91,
                            823–29; ibid., III, 106–11, 206–11,
                            277–83. A summary table of these appropriations is in Carmony, Indiana Public
                            Finance, 73.
                  
                     104 It is believed that these figures are accurate except in respect
                            to minor details.
               
                     or scanty. The original record books of the territorial
                    treasurers and auditors, now in the State Archives, are incomplete and very difficult to
                        interpret.105 Most of the journals of the lower house of the Assembly have
                    been preserved, although only a few of those of the upper house have as yet been discovered.106 The available journals contain but little information concerning public
                        finance.107 A careful search of an almost complete file of The
                        Western Sun, from its beginning in 1804 until the early 1820's, uncovered some
                    financial data but none of the annual reports of either the territorial treasurer or auditor.108 The territorial appropriation acts provide most of the usable material about
                    second-stage finances, but these acts are neither complete nor uniform in content.109 The student of territorial finance gains consolation but no knowledge from the discovery
                    that committees of the first and second state Assemblies found it impossible to analyze accurately
                    territorial finance.110
            
            Since the government continued to limit its activities to the exercise of very formal and limited
                    duties, expenditures for such items as internal improvements, education, charities, corrections, and
                    regulatory purposes are conspicuous by their absence. Although the compensation to executive and
                    legislative officials, whose pay came from the territorial treasury, was very meager, these
                    expenditures constituted 
                  
                     105 There are two such volumes in the State Archives and the content
                            appears to have been largely the work of the territorial treasurer.
                  
                     106 Typed copies of those which have been found are in the office of
                            the Historical Bureau at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     107 None of the available House or Council Journals contain any of the
                            annual financial reports of either the treasurer or auditor, although the record indicates
                            that some of these were received.
                  
                     108 The file referred to was used at the Indiana State Library,
                            Indiana Division. Some scattered issues of the 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , Liberty Hall and the 
                                    Frankfort
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette were also consulted; but none of these reports were found. A
                            few miscellaneous issues of the 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Western Eagle, for the late territorial period,
                            were also examined. The writer found nothing in the English Collection of the Harper,
                            Memorial Library at 
                                Chicago
                             University that was not available elsewhere.
                  
                     109 The principal appropriation acts: Philbrick, Laws of
                                Indiana Territory, 143–44, 206–08, 208–10,
                            603–04, 604–05, 605–08, 656–57,
                            668–69, 671–72; Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 112–14, 163–64, 174–75,
                            187–88, 249–50, 252–54, 334–35,
                            358–61, 496–98, 498–500, 546–48,
                            565–66, 653–55.
                  
                     110
                            House Journal, 1816–1817, pp. 72–74; ibid., 1817–1818, pp. 62–63.
               
                     much the greater portion of territorial obligations. The annual
                    salary of the territorial treasurer was established at $100 in 1805, increased to
                    $175 in 1811 and then to $250 in 1814, when the offices of auditor and
                    treasurer were combined. The auditor was allowed $150 per annum for several years and
                    then his salary was increased to $325 for the years 1811 to 1813.111
                    The annual pay of the attorney general seems to have varied from $100 to
                        $150.112 The compensation of the territorial chancellor was even
                    smaller than that given to any of these officials.113 Pay to Assembly members
                    varied from a minimum of one dollar per day of service to a maximum of three dollars, plus mileage
                    for the trip to the capital.114 The first representative Assembly appropriated
                    $950 to pay its members and officials, while the next session appropriated a sum not to
                    exceed $1,400 for the same.115 Possibly the average for each
                    legislative session was between $1,200 and $1,500, although the annual average
                    was less since only ten sessions were held during the twelve-year period.116 The
                    cost of public printing was a relatively important item of public expense. Elihu Stout, editor of
                        The Western Sun, apparently enjoyed a monopoly of this business until about
                    the end of the year 1813 when the editors of The Western Eagle, Indiana's
                    second newspaper, appear to have become the favored printers.117 The need for
                    economy caused the Assembly and its committees to dispense with the printing of the session
                        journals.118 The session laws, save for 
                  
                     111 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 143, 207,
                            606, 669; Ewbank and Riker, Lawn of Indiana Territory, 174, 175, 219, 472.
                  
                     112 Philbrick, Lawn of Indiana Territory, 144, 207,
                            669; Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 175, 219, 450.
                  
                     113 An 1810 law allowed "Waller Taylor, for his services as
                            Chancellor of this territory, one hundred and fifty dollars…." See
                            Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 175. This was not an annual
                            salary and reference to citations in footnote 111 above will indicate that a regular salary
                            was not provided for this official.
                  
                     114 Philbrick, Lawn of Indiana Territory, 209,
                            603–04, 671; Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 187,
                            249, 334, 497, 547. Compensation to legislative officers varied from $1.50 to
                            $4.00 per day.
                  
                     115 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 143, 207.
                  
                     116 Rauch and Armstrong, Bibliography: Laws of
                            Indiana, 68, has a list of these sessions. For discussion of a quasi-session in 1809,
                            see ibid., 67.
                  
                     117
                            Ibid., 9–13, for information concerning printers of the laws.
                            The time and place of printing are also given.
                  
                     118 At least no copies have yet been found of any Journals which were
                            printed. House Journal, 1808, September 28, contains a committee report explaining that 200
                            copies of the journals of both houses of the
               
                     some private and local laws, were printed subsequent to the
                    termination of each session.119 The first and second representative sessions
                    each allowed a sum not to exceed $300 for the cost of printing the laws.120 It cost over $1,000 to prepare and publish the five hundred copies of the
                    revised code of 1807.121 The printing bill increased considerably during the
                    latter part of the territorial period, and the vearly average was probably between $750
                    and $1,000.
            The administration of the revenue system was combined with that of the local administrative system,
                    and tax collectors were allowed an average of about nine per cent of their collections.122 The annual compensation to these collectors probably averaged about
                    $300 per annum. Then there were numerous items of miscellaneous expense such as small
                    appropriations for firewood, candles, rent, stationery, containers for public records, postage,
                    contested elections, supplies, and other items.123 Part of this expense was paid
                    from the contingent fund, supplied by the territorial Assembly, although this fund was often a
                    contingent fund in 
                  1807 Assembly were not printed as intended by that Assembly because: (1) The printers had
                            only a small supply of paper on hand and it would have taken some time to have secured a
                            sufficiency; (2) under the terms suggested by the printers, a very long delay of at least a
                            year would have been necessary; (3) it was more important that the laws be printed first,
                            since their constituents could not do without the Revised Code [of 1807]; (4) it would have
                            cost $400 or $500 to have the Journals printed. In referring to the
                            cost the committee added: "This would as the immortal Doctor B. Franklin observes
                            have been buying the Whistle." Also see ibid., 1811, November 22,
                            for another report suggesting that the expense involved was a reason for not printing the
                            1811 Journals. Parts of the Journals were published in the 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun.
                  
                  
                     119 Ewbank and Hiker, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            703–63, for the private and local laws which were printed separately. See
                            explanation about these laws in ibid., 703.
                  
                     120 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 143, 207.
                  
                     121
                            Ibid., 607, 656–57, appropriating $250 to John Rice
                            Jones and John Johnson for revising the laws, $695 to Elihu Stout and George
                            Smoot for printing and binding the same, while General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston received $50 and John Rice Jones $30 for their
                            services in indexing, collating, and otherwise aiding in the distribution of the code. These
                            appropriations total $1,025.
                  
                     122 Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 99–148.
                  
                     123 Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            143–44, 154, 206–08, 606–08, 669; Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 173–75, 287, 289, 358–61,
                            466, 498–500, 507, 565–66, 653–55, 690–91. These
                            citations are not only representative but are fairly complete.
               
                     name only as the governor was frequently required to make
                    relatively large payments therefrom.124
            
            The available facts led to the conclusion that the estimates which "Gerald" and the 
                        Knox County
                     address made concerning the cost of the second stage, in 1804 when urging its adoption,
                    were approximately correct. It will be recalled that each estimated the cost of the proposed stage
                    at about $3,500 yearly.125 This figure is so near the sum indicated
                    by the above survey that it may be considered the estimated annual cost of the second stage to the
                    residents and landowners of the territory. Adding this sum to the annual average of federal
                    appropriations, the grand total of all territorial expenditures amount to about $10,000
                    yearly for the period 1805 to 1816 inclusive. The total expenditures during the second stage were
                    almost double the same for the first stage.
            Viewing the years 1800 to 1816 as a whole, some summary observations may be made concerning
                    territorial expenditures. The residents of the area which became the Indiana Territory favored the
                    establishment of a first-stage territory partly because they desired to avoid the increased taxes
                    which had resulted from the adoption of the second stage for the Northwest Territory in 1798. Since
                    it was desirable to increase the number of judges in the Northwest Territory, with or without a
                    division, Congress was able to establish a new territory, in 1800, without doubling the expense of
                    governing the area.
            The most serious objection to the adoption of the second stage was the additional cost involved. The
                    increased cost of this stage was principally due to the inauguration of an Assembly and higher
                    salaries to the judges and secretary. The transition to the second stage gave an impetus to the
                    agitation of the more remote settlements for new territorial governments, hastening the formation of
                    separate territories for the 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     regions.
            The first grade of government cost, all told, approximately $5,700. About
                    $5,500 of this amount was provided by 
                  
                     124 For examples see Philbrick, Laws of Indiana
                            Territory, 143, 207, 605–06; Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 361.
                  
                     125 This figure is exclusive of the cost of federal
                        appropriations.
               
                     the federal treasury, with perhaps $200 coming from
                    the territorial treasury. The second or representative stage cost a grand total of near
                    $10,000 as an annual average, about two-thirds being supplied by federal appropriations
                    and one-third by the treasury of Indiana. Salary payments constituted much the most important object
                    of expenditure during both stages, although the cost of public printing was a relatively important
                    item during the second stage.
            The figures quoted in this article may appear incredible to readers who are accustomed to fiscal
                    figures extending upward into the millions and billions of dollars; but the very limited nature of
                    territorial expenditures is only an index of the simple beginnings of the economic, social, and
                    political life of Indiana during its period of infancy.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Kentucky
                    's Influence Upon Indiana in the Crisis of 1861
            BY KENNETH M. STAMPP
            When 
                        Kentucky
                     gave her electoral votes to the Bell-Everett ticket in the critical election of 1860,
                    her action was unmistakably a repudiation of the extremists in both sections. That a majority of her
                    Hoosier neighbors across the Ohio River had no contrary intentions when voting
                    for 
                        Lincoln
                     was perhaps less apparent but equally true.1 Nor is it open to
                    doubt that the people of Indiana, keenly sensitive to the ties of blood, trade, and mutual
                    dependence upon the river outlet, had a wary eye upon 
                        Kentucky
                     when they cast their ballots that year.2 And in the critical months
                    that followed, the position of 
                        Kentucky
                     was a decisive factor in shaping the attitude of Indiana toward secession and civil
                    war.
            During the secession crisis which swiftly followed the news of 
                        Lincoln
                    's election, an overwhelming majority of the people in both 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana pinned their hopes for saving the Union upon the time-tested palliative of
                    compromise. Had the decision rested in their hands alone, coercion would have remained an
                    unthinkable remedy. Even among Republicans, many conservative businessmen and most of the party
                    followers in southern Indiana blenched at the 
                  
                     1 With few exceptions the Republican press and party orators took
                            pains to assure Indiana voters that 
                                Lincoln
                            's election would be a triumph for conservative principles. Thus the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana American, June 20, 1860, denied that the Republicans contemplated
                            an attack upon slavery anywhere. The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal of September 7, 1860, predicted that 
                                Lincoln
                            's policy would be one calculated to "restore and strengthen
                            kind and fraternal feelings between all the patriotic citizens of the several
                            states." A 
                                Spencer County
                             Republican convention condemned the "fanaticism of
                            abolitionists"; the Republicans of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             recognized the right of any new state to be admitted to the Union with or
                            without slavery as it might elect; and a meeting of the party faithful in 
                                Dearborn County
                             solemnly resolved that the principle of popular sovereignty was "as
                            old as our government and that the Republican party, now, as ever, is ready to stand and
                            abide by it." Ibid., January 19, February 15, 21, 1860.
                  
                     2 For a discussion of the interdependence and common interests of 
                                Kentucky
                            , Indiana, and other portions of the "Borderland," see Edward
                            C. Smith, The Borderland in the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 1–8, 23–25. During the campaign Henry S. Lane,
                            Republican candidate for governor of Indiana, frequently referred to his 
                                Kentucky
                             origins and insisted that the name of Henry 
                                Clay
                             had been inscribed upon his banner ever since he had entered Indiana politics.
                            In a speech at 
                                Rockport
                             his tribute to 
                                Clay
                             "was truly sublime, causing tears to start in the eyes of many an old
                            Whig." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 5, 1860.
               
                     very thought of coercing the South. The effects of such a
                    policy upon the river towns, whose prosperity hinged upon continued friendly relations with 
                        Kentucky
                    , and upon the down-state farmers who produced for the southern market were all too
                    apparent. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, long a spokesman for the conservative wing of the Republican party, was
                    the earliest and most influential mouthpiece of the anti-coercion group. Almost daily its editorial
                    columns dwelt upon the frightful implications of an internecine war and dismissed it as
                    "suicidal and senseless."3
            
            In southern Indiana, even among those who had voted for 
                        Lincoln
                    , a strong political reaction set in as soon as it became clear that the Ohio
                        River might mark the boundary between two hostile nations. Few believed that
                    compromise could hold the deep South in the Union, but many still hoped to placate the border states
                    and thus preserve the unity of the Ohio Valley.4 The future
                    course of 
                        Kentucky
                     was a matter of special solicitude. Governor-elect Henry S. Lane, among others, wrote
                    urgently to his many friends there and assured them that the Republican administration had no
                    intention of interfering with slavery.5 During a visit to 
                        Kentucky
                     in January, he expressed the belief that the North would be willing to accept the
                    extension of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line to 
                        California
                    .6 His public utterances in the weeks that followed were uniformly
                    conciliatory and filled with references to the ties binding Indiana to 
                        Kentucky
                    .7 Other moderates pursued a similar course. Speaking before a
                    public meeting at 
                  Brandenburg, Kentucky
               , Walter Q. Gresham, a Republican member of the
                    Indiana legislature, promised that the rights of individual states would be sacredly respected. At
                    the same time Gresham assured his party friends that he would never fight in a servile or domestic
                        war.8
            
            
               
                  3
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, August 17, October 31, November 10, 19. 28, December 21, 22,
                        1860, January 9, 1861. Among other Republican papers originally opposed to coercion were the
                        Marshall, Indiana, Republican;
                        
                            Attica
                        , Indiana, Ledger; and the 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Broad Axe.
               
               
                  4
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, December 5, 7, 8, 1860.
               
                  5
                        Ibid., December 18, 1860.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., January 11, 1861.
               
                  7 See Lane's speech delivered at 
                            Indianapolis
                         on November 20, 1860, ibid., November 27, 1860.
               
                  8 Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Q. Gresham (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1919), I, 125, 136.
            
            
            With the exhortations of a united Democracy ringing in their ears, some few Republicans were even
                    ready to support the proposition of Senator John J. Crittenden—not only to extend the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line, but also to provide a congressional slave code to protect slavery
                    south of that line.9 With near unanimity border newspapers endorsed
                    Crittenden's proposals and challenged Republicans in Congress to submit them to a vote of
                    the people. Scores of Union meetings, in which a considerable number of Republicans participated,
                    specifically approved this proposed compromise.10 The same demand was couched in
                    countless resolutions introduced in the Indiana legislature, which assembled in January.11
            
            Every consideration of self-interest urged southern Indiana toward some course of common action with 
                        Kentucky
                     and the rest of the Union-conscious Borderland to stave off the crisis. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger warned the Border States that, in the event of civil war, "it
                    would be their soil that would be drenched in blood;…it would be their towns and villages that would be laid in ashes." Are you ready, it
                    asked, to make "war on the people of 
                        Kentucky
                    , your friends, neighbors, and brethren. Are you ready for this?"
               12 "Why not meet the issue promptly,"
                    urged the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, "and yield whatever is reasonable to satisfy the Union
                    conservative men of the South, and thereby build up a National Union party which will neutralize and
                    destroy the extremists, the disunionists of both sections."13 On
                    February 16, citizens from 
                        Boone
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana, assembled to hear pleas that 
                        Kentucky
                     remain in the Union and not "abandon the opponents to 
                        Lincoln
                     in the North."14 At the same time the Republican Madi-
                        
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 31, 1861.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 28, 1861; New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, January 23, 1861. A competent
                            observer in southern Indiana affirmed that a majority of Republicans from his district
                            favored the Crittenden proposals. James A. Cravens to William H. English, January 20, 1861,
                            William H. English MSS (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     11 W. H. and Ariel Drapier (comps.), Brevier Legislative
                                Reports of Indiana. 1858–1887 (22 vols. in 20, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1858–1888), Regular Session, 1861, IV, 7–8,
                            9–12, 44–45, 47–48, 56.
                  
                     12 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, November 21, 1860, February 6, 1861.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, March 30, 1861.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Aurora
                            , Indiana, Commercial, February 21, 1861.
               
                     son Courier proposed a joint meeting of the 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana legislatures to discuss grievances and to search for a possible basis of
                        settlement.15
            
            Meanwhile, some men in southern Indiana had begun at an early date to perceive the dour possibility
                    that all efforts to save the Union by peaceful methods might fail. The serious implications in that
                    circumstance caused them to ponder their future course in the event of permanent division. Again
                    there was a general agreement that 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and other border states should act as a unit in such a contingency.
                    "There is a great and fertile and prosperous region of country," explained the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger, 
                        embracing 
                                Kentucky
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , and a large portion of 
                                Ohio
                            , Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            , whose people are not to any considerable extent affected by the ultraism of
                            either of the extremes, who would in the event of the convulsion of the Republic, be drawn
                            together by the ties of commerce, neighborhood, and general coincidence of views and
                                interests.16
                  
                    
            
            Should war result from the failure of compromise, many in Indiana's border counties hoped
                    that their people might declare their neutrality and pursue an independent course. "We who
                    have no cause of quarrel," urged the Ledger, "should hold
                    ourselves in a position where we can act, if need be, as arbiters and peacemakers between the
                    contending factions…. And no two states are better prepared to assume this important
                    office than Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    ."17 As early as November 29 a Union meeting at New 
                        Albany
                     resolved that, if civil war came, "we as citizens of
                    Indiana,…knowing that we have no cause of quarrel with our immediate neighbors,
                    should…so act as to prevent our soil becoming the theater of bloody
                        strife…."18 Again in January a Democratic state
                    convention proclaimed it "the duty of Indiana…to act with other conservative
                    States, as a mediator between contending factions."19
            
            Other men, however, dreading the prospect of seeing their 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbors in another nation, were prepared for more drastic action. As a last resort
                    they would have joined their Southern friends in a reconstructed Union or 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 28, 1861.
                  
                     16 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, November 28, 1860.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., November 21, 1860.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., December 5, 1860.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 9, 1861.
               
                     formed a Northwest Confederacy in alliance with the South. More
                    than once the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel gave veiled hints at such an outcome,20 but other
                    papers in southern Indiana spoke more boldly. The Paoli Eagle, for example,
                    blandly asserted that the interests of the southern portion of the state "point to the
                    South, as the natural place for her to go."21 In the privacy of a
                    personal letter James A. Cravens, congressman-elect from the second district, proposed a division of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana to create from the southern portion of each a new state to be named
                    "Jackson." "I cannot obliviate the fact that our interest is with the
                    South," he explained, "and I cannot reconcile the
                        separation…."22
            
            Similar views found endorsement at public meetings in several of the river counties. One such
                    gathering at Paoli urged the legislature to call a state convention to determine the future course
                    of Indiana in the event of a final dissolution of the Union.23 Other meetings at
                            
                  Rockport, Cannelton
               , and 
                        Salem
                     resolved that, if the North and South divided, the line of division would have to run
                    north of them.24 The men who framed these resolutions, however, always insisted
                    that they wanted no lines drawn at all, and that such action was contemplated only as a last resort.
            In April, however, when the batteries of 
                        Charleston
                     transferred the issue from the forum to the field of battle, southern Indiana favored a
                    vigorous prosecution of the war as strongly as any other part of the state. Democratic congressmen
                    Cravens and William S. Holman gave the Administration's war measures their firm support;
                    and the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger became a war paper. Indeed, Governor Oliver 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., December 12, 22, 1860.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., January 21, 1861; New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, March 3, 1861.
                  
                     22 James; A. Cravens to William H. English, April 9, 1861, William H.
                            English MSS.
                  
                     23 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, January 23, 1861.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., January 9, February 27, 1861; Gresham, Life of Walter
                                Q. Gresham. I, 122. A correspondent of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 9, 1861, declared that the men behind this movement
                            in 
                                Cannelton
                             were those who were interested in its coal mines and cotton mills, and who
                            believed that such action would build the prosperity of 
                                Cannelton
                             and southern Indiana generally. Simultaneously wild rumors found circulation to
                            the effect that 
                                Perry County
                             would be out of the Union within thirty days, that the line of separation was
                            already being drawn, and that commissioners had been appointed to visit 
                                South Carolina
                             to arrange for its admission to the Confederacy. Ibid.,
                            January 15, 1861.
               
                     P. Morton insisted that the river counties were the most loyal
                    in Indiana.25 This remarkable shift in the policy of the border implied no
                    inconsistency in objectives, for the waging of war was simply another method of making certain that
                    the Ohio River did not divide the nation.
            With the launching of the Civil War, Indiana's ardent state officials turned their attention
                    immediately to the anomalous position of their 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbors. To no small degree their concern about conditions in that state was the
                    predominant influence in shaping their ideas regarding the proper conduct of the war. That national
                    policy did not always conform with the plans of these local strategists was not due to any failure
                    on their part to acquaint 
                        Lincoln
                     and the War Department with their opinions. After a sweeping survey of the potential
                    battle lines, Governor Morton, from his sanctum in the West, expounded his war views to the
                    President, the secretary of war, and the generals in the field and defended them with characteristic
                    vigor. In 
                        Kentucky
                     he and his political associates found fertile ground for the cultivation of numerous
                    political and military imbroglios.
            When 
                        Lincoln
                     issued his first call for troops in April, 
                        Kentucky
                    's Governor Beriah Magoffin, whose Southern sympathies were thinly disguised,
                    refused to respond. 
                        Kentucky
                     secessionists worked assiduously, and most Hoosiers seemed to expect that their
                    neighbors would soon join the Confederacy. In May Magoffin and the legislature announced a policy of
                    neutrality which was designed to exclude both Union and Confederate troops from their borders.26 The President cautiously acquiesced in 
                        Kentucky
                    's neutrality and hoped thus to strengthen the position of the local Unionists,
                    which was none too secure. With 
                        Lincoln
                    's approval General George B. McClellan agreed to hold off the Union forces as
                    long as the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia could bar the Confederates.27
            
            The neutrality policy was not without sympathy in Indiana. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel gave it complete endorsement, 
                  
                     25 Morton to General Rosecrans, February 28, 1863, Morton Dispatch
                            Books (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     26
                            War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and
                                Confederate Armies (
                                Washington
                            , 1880–1901), Series III, Vol. I, 70; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana, State Sentinel, April 20, May 21, 23, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 2, 1861; Smith, Borderland in the Civil
                                War, 263 et seq.
                  
                  
                     27 Smith, Borderland in the Civil War, 273, 277,
                            281.
               
                     and the Journal doubted that more could be expected from 
                        Kentucky
                     Unionists than to keep their state out of the Confederacy.28 The
                    Indiana legislature, convened in special session, debated the question thoroughly. Some members made
                    severe strictures against 
                        Kentucky
                    's course, but others gave it a greater or less degree of approval. Several
                    delegates proposed the creation of a committee to visit the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature or the invitation of that body to visit 
                        Indianapolis
                    . John A. Polk, despite harsh criticism, prayed that 
                        Kentucky
                     might remain neutral and thus be ready to act as an arbiter when the people awoke
                    "to the dread consequences of embruing our hands in brother's blood."29
            
            To the warlike Morton who envisioned a swift and terrible retribution upon Southern traitors,
                    however, 
                        Lincoln
                    's "timid" policy in 
                        Kentucky
                     was anathema. Moreover, the governor's concept of war strategy was bolstered
                    by reports of frenzied panic along the Indiana border. The river counties were terrified at the
                    prospect of 
                        Kentucky
                     secession which would bring the war to their doors, expose them to recurrent rebel
                    raids, and threaten the destruction of lives and property. To stave off such a situation, groups
                    from both sides of the river held joint meetings where they reaffirmed their friendship and agreed
                    to protect each other's rights and property. The fighting, they avowed, should be left to
                    the rival armies.30 To these border communities, the Ohio
                    River "front" was clearly the most vital battle line of the war.
                    Petitioning for arms and advice regarding the disposal of 
                        Kentucky
                    , their committees and delegations descended upon Morton in an endless stream.31
            
            With the full weight of this border trepidation upon him, the governor looked to the War Department
                    for immediate 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, May 6, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 21, 1861.
                  
                     29
                            Brevier Legislative Reports, Extra Session, 1861, V, 46–49,
                            62–67, 105–06.
                  
                     30 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, May 8, 1861.
                  
                     31 J. H. Barkam to Morton, April 18, 1861, Civil War Telegrams
                            (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Morton to Simon Cameron, April 23, 24, 1861; Morton to Caleb Smith, May 13,
                            1861, Morton Letter Books (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 10, 1861. Other men from the border, however, took the
                            opposite position and protested that sending arms to their section would aggrevate the
                            situation and invite retaliation from 
                                Kentucky
                            . Brevier Legislative Reports, Extra Session, 1861, V,
                            36–37; New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, May 29, June 5, 1861.
               
                     aid. He demanded twenty-four—later
                    fifty—cannon to protect the river towns, 20,000 stands of arms, and equipment for one
                    thousand cavalrymen to patrol the shores of the 
                        Ohio
                    .32 When he failed to arouse the federal government to the danger,
                    he made private contracts for cannon and encouraged the border people to organize "home
                    guards" armed with squirrel rifles and fowling-pieces.33 Displaying his
                    own alarm, Morton wrote urgently to General McClellan at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and explained the defenselessness of the river towns in the face of the alleged rampant
                    disloyalty in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Among other proposals, he urged the placing of strong batteries around 
                        Louisville
                     to hold her as hostage for the good behavior of the rest of the state. McClellan was
                    not impressed, however, and rejected the suggestion as incompatable with his established 
                        Kentucky
                     policy.34
            
            Undismayed, Morton went ahead with the development and pursuit of his own 
                        Kentucky
                     policy which was designed primarily to ensure the security of Indiana's
                    border. Believing that the best defense was to keep the war as far as possible from the
                        Ohio River, he would have occupied 
                        Kentucky
                     at once, repudiated her neutrality, and ignored the cautious advice of 
                        Kentucky
                     Unionists in whose loyalty he had little confidence. If the dissemination of such
                    opinions embarrassed the President, Morton apparently gave it little thought.
            On April 25, Governor Magoffin invited the executives of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana to cooperate with him in securing a truce to enable the border states to
                    mediate for peace. Morton had no sympathy for the proposal but agreed to meet Magoffin and discuss
                    any plan which was "constitutional and honorable to Indiana and the Federal
                    Government." Governor William Dennison of 
                        Ohio
                     was equally hostile to the project, but Morton suggested to him that at least Magoffin
                    "cannot fail to develope [sic] his policy."
            
               
                  32 The Morton Letter Books and Dispatch Books contain much correspondence
                        on this subject. See also Official Records, Series III, Vol. I, 93,
                        102–03, 116, 125–26, 149; W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the
                            Adjutant General of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866–1869), I, 429–31.
               
                  33 Morton to A. E. Vinton, May 5, 1861, Morton Letter Books; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 6, 1861; Terrell, Report, I, 8.
               
                  34 Morton to General McClellan, May 9, 1861, Morton Letter Books; Official Records, Series I, Vol. LI, Part 1, pp. 374–75; Terrell,
                            Report, I, 432–33.
            
            
            After some delay the two governors went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where they met Colonel T. L. Crittenden who had been sent to represent the 
                        Kentucky
                     executive. Indignantly, Morton and Dennison demanded to see Magoffin; and after waiting
                    a few hours, they returned to their homes. Subsequently, Magoffin appeared in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and protested that the governors had not waited for him. Morton, however, had already
                    expounded his position to Magoffin in a letter which declined further cooperation. He denied the
                    legality of 
                        Kentucky
                    's neutrality or the right of a state to act as mediator during a rebellion and
                    invoked her people to take their stand promptly on the side of the Union. Morton had clearly
                    out-maneuvered Magoffin and seized at the same time an opportunity to express his antipathy for the
                    policy of neutrality.35
            
            Throughout the spring and summer the Indiana executive and his subordinates continued to criticize 
                        Lincoln
                    's border-state policy and to meddle in 
                        Kentucky
                     affairs. The governor's secret agents crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     to ferret out the plans of the secessionists; he aided in the distribution of arms to 
                        Kentucky
                     Unionists; and he encouraged efforts to recruit for the Union army at "Camp
                    Dick Robinson" near 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               , and at 
                  Cincinnati, Jeffersonville
               , and other points north of the river.36
            
            On May 24, Morton, Dennison, and Governor Richard Yates of 
                        Illinois
                     prepared at 
                        Indianapolis
                     a memorial to General Winfield Scott which urged the immediate occupation of various
                    strategic points in 
                        Kentucky
                    . They suggested that loyal 
                        Kentucky
                     troops might be used for that purpose, but, that failing, troops from other states
                    should be employed. The loyalty of 
                        Kentucky
                     would have to be secured, they insisted, before the Union armies could be moved further
                    south. Scott's report to Secretary of War Simon Cameron concerning the memorial of
                    "these high functionaries" was exceedingly cold and critical. He noted that 
                        Kentucky
                     Unionists had advised against such a course and suggested that "probably the
                    danger can be 
                  
                     35 The correspondence between Morton, Dennison, and Magoffin is
                            recorded in the Morton Letter Books and Dispatch Books. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal and Indiana State Sentinel, May 2, 1861; Terrell, Report, I, 215–17; Smith, Borderland in the Civil
                                War, 269–70.
                  
                     36 Terrell, Report, I, 213–15, 221,
                            223–24; William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 140, 147–48; Smith, Borderland in the Civil
                                War, 268, 278.
               
                     better estimated at home than by friends abroad."
                    McClellan also voiced his disapproval, and the petition was ignored.37
            
            Undaunted, Governor Morton still pressed his own policy and won for it the support of some Unionists
                    across the 
                        Ohio
                    .38 While the border people railed at the conspiracy "to
                    place 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana in different nations" and to bring the war to their doors,39 the governor continued to advise the Administration to prepare for the
                    inevitable crisis and to take a stronger stand. He reminded federal authorities that the border
                    still remained undefended and forwarded the reports of his 
                        Kentucky
                     agents which disclosed numerous plots among the secessionists. Morton rebuked the War
                    Department for ignoring the imminent danger and warned that affairs must not be left to drift until
                    it was too late. "If we lose 
                        Kentucky
                     now, God help us," was his plea.40
            
            
               
                        Kentucky
                    's neutrality terminated abruptly in September, 1861, when the Confederates
                    seized 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Bowling Green
                    . General Ulysses S. Grant countered at once with the occupation of Paducah. The 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature demanded the immediate withdrawal of the Southern troops and prepared to
                    employ the state militia to drive them out.
            The success of 
                        Lincoln
                    's strategy in forcing the Confederates to make the first move apparently
                    escaped Governor Morton completely. Instead, he saw in the southern invasion of 
                        Kentucky
                     a complete vindication of his own position and a manifestation of Administration
                    stupidity for allowing the Confederates to take the initiative. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal exploded with anger at the government's lack of circumspection
                    and at the nation's humiliation in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Had Morton's admonitions "so uselessly given to the
                    Administration" been heeded, it wailed, the rebel invasion 
                  
                     37 The memorial is in the Morton Letter Books. See also Official Records, Series I, Vol. LII, Part 1, pp. 146–48,
                            160–61.
                  
                     38 David McDonald to Morton, July 13, 1861; J. T. Boyle and J. J.
                            Speed to Morton, September 2, 1861; General Scott to Morton, September 3, 1861, Morton
                            Letter Books; Leslie Coombs to Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , May 14, 1861, Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             MSS (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, May 22, 1861.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 4, 1861; New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, August 21, 1861.
                  
                     40 Morton to 
                                Lincoln
                            , August 3, 1861; Morton to Asst. Sec. of War Scott, August 29, 30, September 2,
                            7, 1861, Morton Letter Books; Official Records, Series I, Vol. IV,
                            255–56; Vol. LII, Part 1, p. 187; Series III, Vol. I, 473–75,
                            489–90.
               
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                     could have been averted41 Subsequently the President and governor
                    exchanged icy letters of mutual criticism. Neither could comprehend the other's position,
                    for the perspectives attained at 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were hopelessly at variance. "As to 
                        Kentucky
                    ," wrote 
                        Lincoln
                    , "you do not estimate that state as more important than I do, but I am
                    compelled to watch all points."42 Morton coldly responded with a
                    defense of his own state's interests: 
                        Indiana from geographical position is more deeply interested in 
                                Kentucky
                             than any other State, and you cannot understand without being here, the anxiety
                            felt and expressed in regard to 
                                Kentucky
                             affairs…. In this contest the Government is compelled to lean upon
                            the States for its armies, and in my opinion the hands of the men who labor without ceasing
                            to sustain the Government should be held up and not deposed by indifference to their
                            recommendations and demands.43
                  
                    
            
            With the movement of Confederate forces into 
                        Kentucky
                    , however small, that sector became for Indiana at once the main theater of the war.
                    More agitated than ever, the border counties redoubled their demands for adequate defense, and
                    Morton joined in the general hue and cry.44 For a time this governor, fearing to
                    weaken the state's defenses, refused to send additional troops to General John C. Fremont
                    in 
                        Missouri
                     despite the latter's protests.45 He issued an emergency
                    appeal for volunteers,46 and new regiments were quickly formed and forwarded to 
                        Kentucky
                    . "Remember, the defense of 
                        Kentucky
                     is your own surest defense," was the border's anxious plea to the
                    interior. Presumably the fate of the West hung in the balance, for, should 
                        Kentucky
                     be lost, "the war is indefinitely postponed, and converted from one for 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 24, 26, 28, 1861.
                  
                     42 John G. Nicolay and John Hay (eds.), Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , Complete Works (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1894), II, 82–83.
                  
                     43 Morton to 
                                Lincoln
                            , October 7, 1861, Morton Letter Books.
                  
                     44 Morton to Simon Cameron, September 12, 1861; Morton to William H.
                            Seward, September 12, 1861; Morton to 
                                Lincoln
                            , September 21, 1861, Morton Letter Books; Official Records,
                            Series I, Vol. IV, 257, 276; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 20, October 8, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, October 3, 1861; 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Gazette, quoted in ibid., October
                            7, 1861.
                  
                     45 D. G. Rose to Morton, September 22, 1861; Morton to General 
                                Fremont
                            , September 23, 1861, Morton Dispatch Books; Official Records,
                            Series I, Vol. IV, 258–61, 266.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, October 2, 1861.
               
                     suppressing the rebellion to one of defense of our own
                        territory."47
            
            The details of the ensuing 
                        Kentucky
                     campaigns came no less under the critical scrutiny of the Hoosiers. A thousand
                    conflicting rumors poured in upon Governor Morton from the interior of 
                        Kentucky
                    , from 
                        Louisville
                    , and from the river border. Morton passed them on to federal authorities in daily
                    reports of rebel movements, to which he attached pertinent advice regarding Union strategy. Late in
                    September he nervously advised 
                        Lincoln
                     that the Confederates were forty miles from 
                        Louisville
                     and also at 
                        Bowling Green
                    , eighty miles from 
                        Evansville
                     on the navigable Green River. He warned that General
                    Sherman's position was extremely dangerous and proposed that 
                        Fremont
                     make a strong diversion toward 
                        Nashville
                     and 
                        Memphis
                    .48 A few days later the governor reported frantically to the
                    President that enemy pickets were in sight of Muldrough's Hill where they would be able to
                    communicate by rail with all points in the Confederacy. If they seized that position, he cautioned,
                    "it will be a second Manassas, and will require 100,000 men to dislodge them."
                    General Robert Anderson would have to be reinforced quickly or 
                        Kentucky
                     would be lost "as completely as 
                        South Carolina
                    ."49
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's facetious and patronizing replies to these admonishments were well
                    calculated to drive the unhumored Morton to fury. On September 26 
                        Lincoln
                     telegraphed to Morton: 
                        I think there is no concentration of railroads at Muldrough's Hill. A week ago we
                            heard that the enemy was encamped on Muldrough's Hill, and now our friends are
                            encamped upon it and the enemies [sic] pickets are in sight. That is an improvement.50
                  
                    
            
            The governor replied: 
                        From the spirit of your despatch and from other information I am satisfied my despatches in
                            regard to 
                                Kentucky
                             are not highly honored. I have said what I thought it my duty to say. A few
                            days will tell the story in 
                                Kentucky
                            .51
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  47 New 
                            Albany
                        , Indiana, Weekly Ledger, September 18, October 9, 1861.
               
                  48 On September 21, 
                            Lincoln
                         replied comfortingly: "
                            Bowling Green
                         is 93 miles from 
                            Evansville
                         and Green River is not now navigable I should think."
                        Morton Dispatch Books.
               
                  49 Morton to 
                            Lincoln
                        , September 25, 1861, ibid.
               
               
                  50
                        
                            Lincoln
                         to Morton, September 26, 1861, ibid.
               
               
                  51 Morton to 
                            Lincoln
                        , September 26, 1861, ibid.
               
            
            
            Meanwhile the Indiana press was demanding a vigorous campaign to drive the Confederates out of 
                        Kentucky
                    , a move which was regarded as far more vital than the military operations on the
                    Potomac. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal urged the diversion of 50,000 troops from the East for a drive through 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Nashville
                     and complained that 
                        Washington
                     thought of nothing but its own defense.52 In December the Journal still fretted at the failure to utilize the troops that had been provided
                    and at the generals who were afraid to move. Appalled by this "most contemptible
                    weakness" and "hopeless stupidity," it longed for
                    "Napoleon's old boots to lead our army."53
            
            As soon as the Union armies entered 
                        Kentucky
                    , Governor Morton determined to secure the transfer of the Indiana regiments in western 
                        Virginia
                     to the new sphere of military operations. Criticizing their alleged neglect in the
                    East, the Journal suggested that the generals there be left "to paddle
                    their own canoe," while 
                        Washington
                     "may go to the only place its swindling selfish society is fit for."
                    Now, it asserted, there was work for the state troops nearer home "where everyone will lend
                    a helping hand instead of attempting to steal the clothing off their backs."54 Morton addressed a strong memorial to the President and journeyed to 
                        Washington
                     to press his demand. Complications arose when 
                        Ohio
                     made a similar effort to transfer her troops, but Morton ultimately obtained the
                    removal of several Indiana regiments to 
                        Kentucky
                    .55
            
            Indiana's solicitude about 
                        Kentucky
                     affairs and the security of the border never abated. Every rumor of rebel movements
                    brought a flurry of excited reports to the governor from the river counties. Morton's
                    continued anxiety over 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, October 2, 15, 31, 1861.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., December 16, 1861.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., October 8, 15, November 4, 1861. The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, October 14, 1861, reported that state officials
                            had threatened to march the Indiana troops out of western 
                                Virginia
                            , and asked where Morton obtained authority over 
                                United States
                             troops. It professed to see in such action something akin to Southern
                            secessionism. "Is it not setting up State authority higher than that of the General
                            Government?"
                  
                     55 Morton to General Reynolds, October 9, 22, November 8, 1861; W. R.
                            Holloway to General 
                                Milroy
                            , November 2, 1861; Morton to 
                                Lincoln
                            , November 14, 15, 1861; Morton to Caleb Smith, November 14, 1861; Morton to
                            David Kilgore, November 15, 1861; David Kilgore to Morton, November 18, 1861, Morton Letter
                            Books.
               
                     border defense was manifested in his strenuous attempts to
                    strengthen the Indiana Legion, to secure a gunboat flotilla for the 
                        Ohio
                    , and to organize cavalry to patrol the three hundred mile river front.56 His self-assumed guardianship over 
                        Kentucky
                     was the source of no little flattering comment. Indeed, wrote a 
                        Kentucky
                     admirer, "as the expression goes, you are the governor of both Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    ;…the Indianians…[are] the protectors and defenders of 
                        Kentucky
                    ."57
            
            Despite the general concern, however, military operations in 
                        Kentucky
                     were on a small scale until the brief invasion by Kirby Smith and Braxton Bragg in the
                    late summer of 1862. Nevertheless, the reaction of the Hoosiers to the crisis of 1861 finds no
                    adequate explanation without weighing the influence upon them of their 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbors. And the clash of state and federal interests in the 
                        Kentucky
                     arena throws revealing light upon the intransigent obstacles which deterred the
                    formulation of a synchronous national war policy. That the needs of the nation were so often
                    confused with local interests bore striking testimony to the fact that, in Indiana at least, none
                    waged the war to obliterate the states.
            
               
                  56 The Morton Letter Books and Dispatch Books contain numerous
                        communications upon this subject. See also Official Records, Series III, Vol.
                        II, HO, 234, 240; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, August 5, 1862.
               
                  57 J. V. Anderson to Morton, October 7, 1862, Morton MSS.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            A reviewer in the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review
                    recently criticized an author in these words: "His local history is, however, so erroneous
                    as greatly to impair an otherwise scholarly work." By "local history" the
                    reviewer seems to mean the historical geography of the locality with which he was concerned. His
                    additional statement that the work of many historians shows similar weakness is an indication of the
                    importance to the study of local history of investigators who know the locality and its relation to
                    larger units. Academic historians, even when dealing with large areas and general movements, run
                    into errors if they proceed without spade work of local historians. This is true, not only of their
                    geographical references, but also of many other details upon which sound historical work depends.
            How unsafe it is to write history solely on the basis of state and national documents and books
                    covering large fields is illustrated by a recent development in this state. Several years ago the
                    Indiana Historical Records Survey, a WPA project, made and published inventories of county archives
                    of Indiana. Each of the inventories which was completed included a short history of the county and a
                    list of the duties of the county officers, as well as a detailed list of the county records. The
                    account of duties and responsibilities of officers was compiled at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from state legislation dealing with these offices from the beginning down to date. This
                    account was practically the same for all of the counties. Consequently, special and particular
                    duties imposed by special and local legislation and by local circumstances upon officials in certain
                    counties, duties peculiar to one county, were overlooked.
            Thus the Inventory of 
                        Marshall County
                     Archives made no mention of the responsibility of the county authorities at 
                        Plymouth
                    , assumed under the Act making a state appropriation for the erection of the Menominee
                    Village monument, to maintain the monument after it was erected and to keep it is good order. Even
                    if the county officials looked to the Inventory for information on their
                    responsibilities, they would not know of this particular duty laid upon them. In this respect the
                    historical sketch and other parts of the Inventory
                     were of no particular application. This item is not cited as a
                    reflection on the workers in the WPA project (of which indeed the Indiana Historical Bureau was
                    sponsor), but as an illustration of a defect common to a great deal of historical work—a
                    defect which is a partial explanation of the lack of interest in historical writings among men of
                    affairs and of their failure to use them.
            An instance of the help which local historians may give to those working in a larger field has come
                    up in connection with the publication by the Bureau of the three-volume collection of The John 
                            Tipton
                         Papers. From the inception of this work many years ago, the search for
                    writings and speeches of John 
                        Tipton
                     led from the large collection of Tip-ton papers in the Indiana State Library into many
                    other fields. Many items not in this collection were found in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     newspapers. It was impossible for the Bureau, however, to make a search of all Indiana
                    newspapers dating beyond the death of 
                        Tipton
                     in 1839. Recently one of the 
                        Logansport
                     members of the Indiana Historical Society, Robert B. Whitsett, Jr., found in one such
                    unexplored newspaper, the 
                  
                            Logansport
                         Star, a series of unsigned articles published in the 1870's (the
                    first was July 25, 1874) containing quite a lengthy account of 
                        Tipton
                    's career. While the articles add little that is new to the story of 
                        Tipton
                    's life, they are valuable as corroborative material on several points about
                    which information was meager and unsatisfactory. They deserve a place in any 
                        Tipton
                     bibliography, and it is unfortunate that they were discovered too late to be mentioned
                    in the Bureau publication.
            Emphasis is needed both on historians generally paying more attention to local history and on the
                    call for local historians who feel the dignty of such work. Local historical societies, for the most
                    part, find it hard to get people to participate in their activities, even people of ability and good
                    historical education in the schools who ought to realize the significance of such work. If these
                    people could sense the fascination and the value of accurate and complete information about the
                    history of their communities, it would mean much, both for the local historical society and for the
                    general welfare.
         
         
         
            Documents
            SOME ADDITIONAL JENNINGS LETTERS
            Jonathan Jennings was a very important character in the early days of Indiana. He represented Indiana
                    Territory in the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     from 1809 to 1816, and in this capacity he was the agent who directed the passage of
                    the Enabling Act which authorized statehood for Indiana. He was elected a delegate to the first
                    Indiana Constitutional Convention in 1816 and was chosen president of that convention. He became
                    Indiana's first governor and served two terms, 1816 to 1822. A third consecutive term not
                    being constitutional, he became a candidate for Congressman and was elected as Indiana's
                    member of the lower house of Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of William
                    Hendricks. He was then elected for four terms as the representative of the second Indiana
                    congressional district before retiring from politics. This long period of political activity and the
                    prominent positions which he held make his literary remains important to the student of Indiana
                    history.
            The following letters of Jennings are, in the main, published here for the first time. Only three
                    have been previously published and these in newspapers which now are not too readily accessible.
            Mrs. W. H. McDonald of North Platte, 
                        Nebraska
                    , contributed fifteen letters which are now in her possession. They constitute letters
                    written by Jennings to John K. Graham. Mrs. Minnie Graham Zapp of New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, also possesses copies of two letters which are included in the following
                    group. These letters were also written to John K. Graham. Miss Margaret H. Wagenhals of 
                        New York
                     City loaned from the Wagenhals Collection five letters, which were written by Jennings
                    to Jesse L. Holman. Miss Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has sent three letters—one from Jonathan Jennings to John F. Ross, the
                    original of which is in the possession of Margaret Ross 
                        Brown
                     of 
                        Seymour
                    , Indiana, and two letters from Jennings to Samuel 
                        Milroy
                    , the originals of which are in the possession of Mrs. Mary S. Clauser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Miss Riker also sent copies of two letters which were published in the 
                    
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , Liberty Hall, and one in the 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, Western Eagle.
            
            These letters throw further light upon the character and attainments of Jennings. They contribute
                    some additional information in respect to Jennings' antagonistic attitude toward Governor
                    William Henry Harrison during the territorial period. The reference in the letter of November 9,
                    1811, to the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     as the "Massacre on the 
                        Wabash
                    " is interesting. The reference on April 8, 1812, to the likelihood of war with 
                        England
                     unless the "Orders in Council at least, shall be rescinded or so modified [as]
                    to cease to injure our Neutral rights on the Ocean" is an illustration of a Western
                    representative writing about neutral rights when, we have been led to believe, he must have been
                    thinking more about Western causes of the War of 1812.
            The letters reveal Jennings' careful attention to local matters such as public lands, pay of
                    the militia, post offices and post roads, and patronage. Unfortunately, the letters give very little
                    information about the constitutional convention. Later letters give some information regarding
                    internal improvements.
            As these letters were ready for the press, information was received of some additional Jennings
                    letters which, it is expected, will be printed in a later issue of the Magazine.
            
            The chief sources of information about Jonathan Jennings are Logan Esarey, Governors' Messages and Letters, III, Indiana Historical
                    Collections, XII, 1–269; Dorothy Riker, "Unedited Letters of Jonathan
                    Jennings," Indiana Historical Society Publications, X,
                    147–278; and Dorothy Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," Indiana
                        Magazine of History, XXVIII (1932), 223–39.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        St. Louis
                                    , 
                                        Louisiana
                                    , attention of James Maxwell.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Jeffersonville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    26th of April 1809
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My very dear Sir.
                        Much was my disappointment, when I returned to this place and found you
                                    gone—gone for four years—gone without even leaving me one line
                                    to remind me of the past—the past which promised me (I thought) a lasting
                                    friendship—a friendship which I prised as being founded on the firmest
                                    basis—a basis which alone is capable of supporting real friendship, I
                                    mean the basis of an honest heart—a free and generous mind guarded by the
                                    strongest barriers of well settled principles of morality & rectitude.
                                    Graham, to you could I have deposited the greatest secrets of my heart & in
                                    your friendship I anticipated 
                                    much.—I hope you will not forget me, we may see each other I fondly hope
                                    it.
                        I could write much but Maxwell insists upon going—Believe that you[r]
                                    welfare is the most ardent wish of your friend very sincerely
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                        I am a Candidate for Congress & think I shall succeed, in Clark
                                    & Harrison Counties I shall not loose 50 votes—
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              City 
                                    Washington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    24th Decem 1809
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My dear Friend
                        In a few days I shall be with you to give an account of my Stewardship—I
                                    shall bring with me printed statements of the whole affair; you will then be able
                                    after examing [sic] the most curious scene to form an opinion of what our Territory
                                    is in reality.
                        The Committee of Elections have reported, that the Govenor [sic] made an
                                    apportionment without any law to authorise him, and also that he ordered election to
                                    be held on a day not appointed by law.
                        I shall be with you and become a Candidate unless my friends are tired of me already,
                                    but I hope they will until I render an account of what I have done.
                        To support my election I had to advocate the Govenor's conduct and 
                                        Randolph
                                     on the other hand was trying to prove it illegal by producing the laws
                                    of the Territory and of the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                        I made a long argument before the Committee of Elections to prove Harrison had acted
                                    legally—whilst 
                                        Randolph
                                     produced laws enough to prove that his conduct was not legal, but still
                                    alledged, that the Govenor was not to blame because he could do no otherwise.
                        This was playing off Camelion in earnest.
                        Now my friend I shall have printed about 1000 Copies of the points upon which the
                                    election has turned as made before the Committee my defence and the Report of the
                                    Committee.
                        Your friendship I shall expect until I shall cease to be what I have ever been yours
                                    sincerely with friendship and Esteem
                        
                                    J. Jennings
                                
                        (Excuse great haste) Tell Mr. Espy that I shall see his Brother in 
                                        Bedford
                                     in my return.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    11th Deer. 1810
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My dear Graham
                        Why have you not written me ere now. I have not had one sentence upon Territorial
                                    measures since I arrived save a few hints by Mr. Lemon—
                        Persevere my dear friend the day will shortly be ours—Our Govenor has
                                    depreciated at least 50 per Cent since last Spring and if he keeps pace for a few
                                    months in his sinking way, he will have to put into the sinking fund to prevent his
                                    value from being entirely lost—
                        
                        A quaker gentleman informed me that he had conversed with the Secretary of War, who
                                    told him that he doubted very much of the integrity of Harrison Then conversation
                                    commenced upon the subject of the last treaty—We have no news as yet,
                        Accept the assurances of your friend eternally
                        
                                    J. Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    16th of January 1811
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        Since my departure from 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     I have not had the pleasure of one single line from you. Mr. Lemon
                                    informed me that you did not succeed in the Clerkship—I have had but
                                    little account of the proceedings of our Legislature, though in the last letter I
                                    received I had the promise of some considerable shortly which I have not
                                    received—What do the people of 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     think of the removal of the seat of Justice—They relied upon
                                    the Govenor to save them—Depositions have been sent to [me] concerning
                                    the conduct of Harrison—I have laid them before the President and if he
                                    does not remove him I shall move against him in the House next month—Keep
                                    this to yourself for the present—I am yours very
                        
                                    Sincerely
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    29th of Novemr. 1811
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        Since my arrival here I have heard nothing from you. Are you dead, tell me so. If you
                                    are alive do for God sake let me hear from you.
                        Yesterday the Massacre on the 
                                        Wabash
                                     was made known to me a horrid scene truly. Genl. Worthing[ton] in the
                                    Senate from 
                                        Ohio
                                     has instituted an inquiry by raising a Committee in the Senate for that
                                    purpose. The inquiry is progressing.
                        We shall have war with 
                                        England
                                     if she does not revoke her orders in Council, violating our neutral
                                    commerce. I have had but very little news from the Territory since I started. Do be
                                    so good as to let me hear from you some times if it be in any measure convenient.
                        
                                    I am dear Sir yours
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                        Present my respects to Mrs. Graham
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    21st of Decb. 1811
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        Your letter from Cincinnatti of the 7th instant I have received With respect to the
                                    conduct of the Govenor I have had many letters giving very different accounts.
                        I am very glad that your embarasments are in some measure removed,  and it will at all times give me pleasure to afford you
                                    any act of friendship that at any time may be in my power, consistent with the
                                    charge which I am bound to discharge by every tie physical or moral—
                        As to the 160 dollars, I have for some time held myself, and do now hold myself,
                                    bound to advance you.
                        I am aware that the payment which is to be made by Gwathmey, requires one to be made
                                    by you in the first place. I cannot at the present send the draft, but, will in a
                                    few weeks, give you a draft upon abijah Bayliss of 
                                        Louisville
                                    , for a sum, at least, sufficient to make one payment, which will
                                    authorise you to call on Gwathmey for the one due you by him and you may rest
                                    satisfied that I will in due time, and as soon as I possibly can, furnish you 80
                                    dollars, over and above, for the purpose of defraying the fourth and last
                                    instalment—
                        We shall war with 
                                        England
                                    , unless she modifies her Orders in council, so as not to affect the
                                    commercial rights of the U. S. as a Neutral Nation and every preparation is now
                                    making for that purpose—
                        I have generally enjoyed good health since my arrival here and am with much esteem
                                    yours sincerely.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    16th January 1812
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dr. Sir
                        Your favour of the 20 ult I have received. A Statement of what you owe is of no use
                                    to me while we both live, but to prevent any thing unpleasant if one of us should
                                    die My wishes to get you to live with me is to oblige you and myself both. On that
                                    farm we shall have every convenience of life by industry. You will have no rent to
                                    pay, and every thing that is raised shall contribute to your support and convenience
                                    with out costing you one cent. I shall furnish one man to work the whole year and
                                    you with bestowing your attention shall have the one half of all the clear gain
                                    after deducting the expences of necessary farming utensils. I will erect a good
                                    saw-mill or a good Distillery, perhaps both, one of them certainly within eighteen
                                    months, half the neat [net] proceeds of which shall, after I erect them at my own
                                    expence, for your care & oversight, be yours. To the amount of what you owe
                                    me, I will then take at the market price in corn or other grain when it is harvested
                                    or whiskey so soon as it is distilled—
                        Say no more about it go and take possession the first of April if I be not a home.
                                    You never had reason to complain of me I trust, nor never shall We will settle it to
                                    the satisfaction of both, you need not doubt it—
                        In tolerable health I am your friend sincerely
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                        Harrison will no longer govern us Triumphed at last has virtuous perservance J.
                                    J
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    8th of April 1812
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My dear Sir
                        Your letter of the 22d of last month I received last evening. I am very glad that you
                                    have a prospect of making at least as much as will support you—You
                                    acknowledge the receipt of my draft by a former letter and you may in the course of
                                    two weeks after the arrival of this letter at the farthest apply to Mr. Bayliss for
                                    80 dollars more and for that purpose I will enclose you a draft in this letter,
                                    which I do not wish you to present before the first of May unless your last
                                    instalment shall become due to the 
                                        United States
                                     before that time.
                        I shall talk to Dr. Seybert as you have requested and either give you the result by
                                    letter or personal communication when I shall return—We shall certainly
                                    have war with 
                                        England
                                     unless the Orders in Council at least, shall be rescinded or so
                                    modified to cease to injure our Neutral rights on the Ocean neither of which is to
                                    be expected from her now—
                        I am glad that the people stand firm to the cause—Not that I am so anxious
                                    to be re-elected, but for the sake more particularly of those who have embarked with
                                    me—This however will be a secret between you and I—Ewing
                                    writes me from 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , that I have gained much ground in 
                                        Knox County
                                     and I have not heard any contrary account from any quarter of the
                                    Territory—I am my dear Sir your friend sincerely
                        
                                    & Humble St.
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the editors of Liberty Hall.
                           1
                        
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City,
                           
                                    4th June, 1812.
                                
                        Having lately understood, that some individuals of the Territory of Indiana,
                                    entertain an idea, that col. Samuel M'Kee of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , made an "invidious distincton"
                                    between the militia and volunteers of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     and those of the Territory, in his speech in Congress, in favor of
                                    allowing one month's extra pay to the officers and privates who served in
                                    the late campaign on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    : I have requested the colonel to give me a concise statement of the
                                    observations made by him on the occasion, which he did in the subjoined letter.2 This letter calls for no comment of mine, but in justice to
                                    the author as well as myself, I must declare, that I have too often witnessed his
                                    talents exerted in favor of the wishes of the people of the Territory, to believe
                                    that he intended to make, or did make, any invidious distinction between those brave
                                    men. I was present when the speech alluded to was made, and if any remarks had been
                                    offered, prejudicial to the militia or volunteers of the Territory, I should have
                                    corrected them.
                        
                                    I am respectfully,
                                    Jonathan Jennings.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Cincinnati
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , Liberty Hall, June 23, 1812.
               
                  2 This letter in reply was printed in ibid., June 23,
                        1812.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Hon. Jonathan Jennings.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City,
                           
                                    1st June, 1812.
                                
                        Sir—
                        In the remarks made by me in the House of Representatives, in support of the claim of
                                    the officers and soldiers who served in the 
                                        Wabash
                                     campaign, to one month's extra pay. I made no
                                    "invidious distinction" between the 
                                        Kentucky
                                     militia and volunteers and those of Indiana, altho the contrary might
                                    be inferred from a short and imperfect report of my remarks, published in the
                                    Intelligencer. I did say, and continue to say, that the militia did their duty in a
                                    manner highly honorable to themselves and fully equal to the occasion, and as to the 
                                        Kentucky
                                     militia, both gov. Harrison and col. Boyd bore evidence of the able
                                    manner in which they did their duty. The remark was only introduced in reply to a
                                    statement deduced from some letter of col. Boyd, which statement certainly could not
                                    have intended any reflection on the 
                                        Kentucky
                                     militia, and if conceived in the spirit of censure at all, that censure
                                    was not intended to fall on the militia of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    .
                        I regret that any blame should be attributed to me, more especially as I am
                                    unconscious of deserving any. Of this fact, you sir must bear evidence; and if any
                                    injurious distinction had been taken, you, I am sure, would not have failed at the
                                    proper time to correct it. I am sir, respectfully yours obediently,
                        
                                    Samuel M'Kee.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jeremiah Morrow, Chairman of the Committee on the Public Lands3
                        
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City,
                           
                                    June 30, 1812.
                                
                        Sir,
                        I have just been informed by letter, that some persons in the Territory which I
                                    represent, charge me with having so framed the law extending the time of payment to
                                    the purchasers of Public Lands, as to exclude all the large purchasers from the
                                    benefit of the indulgence and thereby ruined the assignees.
                        To correct such misrepresentations, permit me to request that you will answer me the
                                    following inquiries, viz; whether or not I endeavored to have the time of payment of
                                    the Public Lands extended as long as possible and to every purchaser without
                                    discrimination? Whether or not I endeavored to have the back interest remitted, and
                                    whether Congress during the present session, has not done more for the purchasers of
                                    the public lands, than has been done for them at any former period.
                        With great esteem I am your's very respectfully.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Hon. Jonathan Jennings.4
                        
                        
                                    
                              Committee Room,
                           
                                    July 1st. 1812.
                                
                        Sir,
                        I received your letter of yesterday. I am very sorry that any explanation of mine has
                                    in your opinion become necessary to obviate 
                              
                                 3
                                            Ibid., July 25, 1812.
                              
                                 4 This letter in reply was also printed in ibid., July 25, 1812.
                           
                                     a charge, or remove the impression made by any
                                    misrepresentation of your conduct—I can in the most unequivocal terms,
                                    state, that you did endeavor, both before the Committee of Public Lands and the
                                    House of Representatives, to have the greatest possible extension of the time of
                                    payment allowed to the purchasers of public lands without discrimination, and also
                                    to have the back interest remitted; and that you had no agency in framing either the
                                    report or bill on that subject.
                        The extension of time to purchasers, is more ample by the late act, than by any
                                    former one on the subject.
                        
                                    Your's very respectfully.
                                    Jeremiah Morrow.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    8th of December 1813
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        Your letter which I received shortly before the adjournment of the last Session I
                                    carried in person to the General Post Office. The Post Master Genl. expressed doubts
                                    of the expediency of the proposed establishment and observed he would take it into
                                    consideration. I believe I shall be able to succeed however, but the Post Master
                                    Genl. is now absent from the City, lying sick in new jersey and the Assistant P. M.
                                    General cannot find your former letter. These circumstances render it necessary that
                                    I should ask you to give me the name of the gentleman who should be appointed Post
                                    Master at New 
                                        Albany
                                    . Write me without delay and give me also the news of the Territory so
                                    far as your are acquainted with them.
                        Mrs. Jennings has been unwell nearly all the past Summer and fall. I hope and intend
                                    to be with you soon after the present Session shall terminate.
                        We have nothing from Russia or 
                                        France
                                     or 
                                        England
                                     on the score of diplomacy. Make my respects to Mrs. Graham and believe
                                    me to be unfeignedly your friend sincerely with much esteem—
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  city
                           
                                    27th January, 1814.5
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        I have the satisfaction to inform you and through your publication the citizens of
                                    the Territory, that the committee on Military affairs, who had under the
                                    consideration the Petitions and Memorial of the Territorial Legislature in behalf of
                                    Capt's Hargrove and Peyton and their companies, have agreed unanimously to pay them for the whole time they have been in service.
                        The Paymaster Gen. will instruct the District Paymaster to pay the officers and men
                                    of captains Andre's Bigger's Dunn's and Shoulz's
                                    companies from the time of their entering into the service of the U. S. A law was
                                    passed last session to authorize the payment of the 
                              
                                 5 Extract of a letter from the Hon. J. Jennings to one
                                            of the editors and printed in the 
                                                Madison
                                            , Indiana, Western Eagle, February 18,
                                        1814.
                           
                                     whole number of the officers and privates, who
                                    belong to those companies of Rangers, and instructions, together with the law, have
                                    been sent to the District Paymaster, to pay them accordingly, some considerable time
                                        since.6
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, 
                                        Clark County
                                    , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    November 21st 1814
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My dear friends
                        In the hurry of business, with which I have been pressed since my last arrival at
                                    this place, I have hardly had time to write a line on any other subject than
                                    relative to my representative duty. I have never learned whether you are at New 
                                        Albany
                                     or not, but address you as if there. I should be very glad to hear from
                                    you often and if you have not fixed a plan for your next summers, and after
                                    residence, prior to your settlement on your own domain, think of fixing yourself on
                                    my place for a while. It may be necessary however for you to come to a determination
                                    on this if you have not, before the Spring arrives, otherwise I may be induced to
                                    enter into arrangements which would not afterwards admit of the plan proposed
                                    you—
                        We have no news here that might not be confined to a nutshell
                                        "no good news" Lord Hill had not embarked on the 13th of
                                    last month for our coasts. The prospect of Peace, is very remote, at least obscured
                                    and discovered by the wise acres of this place, only through the delusive medium of
                                    European Continental wars—
                        In making my arrangements for the ensuing summer, I have determined not to conclude
                                    finally, what they shall be, until I ask of you whether or not it will be convenient
                                    for you to pay me, any time next spring, any part, and how much of the sum which is
                                    between us—In putting this interrogatory to you, I trust you know me too
                                    well, to construe it into a demand. I should not have asked you the question but for
                                    your own observations that you expected to make it convenient—If it will
                                    be convenient, I wish to know it soon, and if it will not for the same reason I wish
                                    to be informed—If it will not be entirely convenient, or in other words,
                                    if it was not your expectation to be prepared for any reimbursement, before this
                                    letter reached you, I beg of you not to let my enquiry urge you the least, to any
                                    earlier payment—I have enjoyed but indifferent health since I last left 
                                        Charleston
                                    —Taxes will be very heavy after the end of the present
                                    Session of Congress—
                        I am dear Sir, your unfeigned friend and Humble St.—
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Indiana Territory, via 
                                        Louisville
                                    , Ky.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    26th of Decr 1814
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My dear friend
                        Your letter of the 9th inst: I have received. You say it will not be in your power to
                                    return the loan made you. That declaration would 
                              
                                 6 Another very brief letter from Jennings to the same
                                            editor dated January 31, 1814, in ibid., February 18,
                                            1814, contains lengthy enclosures dealing with this matter.
                           
                                     have been sufficient without any explanation. I
                                    am fully satisfied that you will return it as soon as you can and I hope, nay, you
                                    will not oblige me if you sacrifice any interest of yours to the object of
                                    repayment. I write as I feel. It was my friendship that induced me to loan, and that
                                    friendship undiminished, would be wounded if you were, because of my letter on this
                                    subject of a former date, to act as if I had required payment. Enough on this point.
                        If nothing else more advantageous presents itself to your view, my little property on
                                    Silver creek, will be always ready to yield to your comfort or advantage while you
                                    may be disposed to reside upon it. If you have any ideas of that kind, communicate
                                    to me as soon as possible and you shall be accommodated. It will if no more enable
                                    you to "about in equilibria, so that if you do not rise you
                                        will not, be Kinking," as you state you have been—Since
                                    I received your letter which I now answer, I have written to the Surveyor General at 
                                        Chillicothe
                                     (Doct. Edward 
                                        Tiffin
                                    ) with whom I am personally acquainted a pressing letter in your behalf,
                                    requesting to know, whether it will be in his power to employ you. If not
                                    immediately, I have reason to believe, that ere long it will enable you to enter
                                    upon certain engagements which will enable you to command funds which will place you
                                    beyond the grasp of immediate necessity. I am only in tolerable health.
                        My respects to Mrs. Graham I am unchangeably your friend affectionately.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Indiana Territory, via 
                              Louisville, Kentucky
                           .
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    14th January 1815
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        My Dear Sir.
                        I enclose to you a letter for your safe and confidential keeping. Therein you will
                                    find a pledge in your favour, which, according to my recollection of the profits of
                                    surveying, will be sufficient to lay the ground work of your future competency, at
                                    no distant period, and believe me, it yields me no small satisfaction.
                        If my life is spared, be assured, that there is nothing fallacious in this, and those
                                    bounty lands will soon be operated upon, must be, by the faith of the government.
                        I have directed Govr. Tiffen to direct to you at 
                                        Charleston
                                    , I. T and I will see that any communications he may make you, shall
                                    reach you. I feared that a direction to 
                                        N. Albany
                                     might be more liable to a miscarriage. Of this subject say nothing to
                                    any person, only do not bind yourself by any contract, until you again hear from me,
                                    by which you would place it beyond your power to avail yourself of the advantage
                                    which the enclosed presents.
                        When I see you I shall explain on the subject of your invention. I really have hardly
                                    time to drop my best friend a line—
                        I am sincerely yours; with my respects to Mrs. Graham. The balence of your family I
                                    am a stranger to.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, New 
                              Albany,
                                            Clark County
                           , Indiana Territory,
                                    via 
                              Louisville, Kentucky
                           .
                        
                                    
                              New 
                                    Lancaster
                                 
                                 
                                    Ohio
                                 
                              
                           
                                    20th Nov. 1815
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dear Graham
                        I have mustered as much paper as will carry you a line. The Surveyor General has
                                    reserved for you, ten Townships to Survey in the Territory of 
                                        Illinois
                                    . The conduct of the Indians he assures me was the reason of his not
                                    calling on you by letter ere now, by letter and he assured me last evening when at
                                    his house, that he would communicate to you as soon as he conceived you could
                                    proceed with safety—
                        Let me hear from you, and know as soon as possible whether you wish to do the
                                    survying of Ten Townships, or whether you would rather undertake a less
                                    quantity—My object is, if it be not your desire, to oblige another man,
                                    with the ballance if you should not wish to survey the ten Townships
                                    yourself—I am ever yours with unlimitted esteem.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                        in haste)
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jesse L. Holeman, Lawrenceburgh, via 
                                        Marietta
                                    , 
                                        Ohio
                                    , and Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    8th of Decem. 1815
                                
                        [Margaret H. Wagenhals, 
                                        New York
                                     City]
                        Dear Sir.
                        Once more I have reached the metropolis of our country where gaiety, formality and
                                    the rounds of fashionable folly are the order of the day with the people of high
                                    life. Here the cheerful simplicity of rural maners are unknown as well as the
                                    pleasures they afford to the circles of domestic life. It really seems to me that
                                    these swarms of fashionable empherons, neither think nor speak, without consulting
                                    whether or not it be the mode. Here every face wears a smile
                                    either feigned or real, though poverty unveiled, retrenches the necessities of life
                                    to give means to make a figure. How disgusting?
                        With my little stock of skill in human [nature], I have never thought myself safe to
                                    attempt forming one friend, more than, what we may call, civil folks
                        The City presents a very different aspect, compared with last autumn. The publick
                                    edifices, destroyed by the British Vandals, are repairing, and will be in a great
                                    measure, again compled [sic] in the course of another year.
                        Personal enterprize in every art is exhibiting itself on a large scale since the last
                                    Session of Congress. We have but little European news or domestic either save what
                                    is contained in the message of the President of the 
                                        United States
                                    —I am not very well, but able to write you a short letter.
                                    How much the taxes may be reduced I am yet unable to say. I am dear Sir, with great
                                    esteem your friend.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John F. Ross, 
                              Charleston,
                                            Clark County
                           , Indiana Territory
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    Feby. 7th. 1816
                                
                        [Margaret Ross 
                              Brown, Seymour
                           , Indiana]
                        Dr. Sir,
                        I was pleased at the reception of your letter and the history you give me of the late
                                    proceedings of Corydon. I must admit that 
                                        Charleston
                                     would be more convenient than Corydon to accommodate a Convention. But
                                    it seems a majority of the Legislature did not think so, and I cannot take upon
                                    myself a responsibly, where nothing but convenience is at stake, and which would
                                    only involve myself. I would willingly have voted it in the Legislature, but here it
                                    is not my business since the Legislature has prescribed the seat of Government as
                                    the spot where the convention shall meet. Besides I have an interest in and near 
                                        Charleston
                                    , which would give additional pretexts for clamour, and charges of
                                    personal interestedness in Legislation.
                        You will perceive by publications that I have at length and with much pressing got
                                    the militia services of our Territory recognized, and they will be paid, though they
                                    will have to wait a while as money is yet not too plenty with the Government. There
                                    is no need as yet for the officers to do any thing in relation to their claims. Ere
                                    long and in due time for them, I shall make a further communication if it shall be
                                    necessary. I should be gratified to be in the convention as I have no doubt the law
                                    under which it will be formed will be strictly examined. As to being a candidate for
                                    Govenor, I cannot yet positively say, it will be full time enough you know,
                                    hereafter. It may be. With respect and esteem I am your friend & Humble St.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jesse L. Holeman, Lawrenceburgh, Indiana Territory.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    Feby 19th 1816
                                
                        [Margaret H. Wagenhals, 
                                        New York
                                     City]
                        My dear Sir.
                        I have been favoured with your letter of the 1st inst: by Saturday evenings mail. I
                                    had been long expecting to hear from you, and would have written you before now, but
                                    for the croud of letters and addresses recieved from Indiana, produced by the late
                                    Proclamation of the President ordering the settlers off the Publick
                                    Lands—
                        The news here that could interest you, of a general character, can be communicated,
                                    only by laborious detail. I must therefore decline such attempt, as the Publick
                                    journals convey every particular.
                        In relation to Indiana, and its probable change of its form of government, I have no
                                    doubt a law will pass at some period of the present Session of Congress, for the
                                    purpose, on terms as favourable, if not much more so, than have been acceaded to any
                                    other of the Territories of the U. States—
                        You have no doubt a heavy charge to perform in your judicial capacity, and have to
                                    taste the fruits of much absence from your
                                    chosen residence, from your home and family, from your beloved retirement, from your
                                    groves and gardens and dreams of rural felicity,—
                        Not long since I recieved a letter from our worthy friend Mr. Hendricks. He informed
                                    me that, in his opinion, no country ever 
                                    presented more candidates for its population, than does Indiana, to lay the
                                    foundation of our proposed State fabrick.
                        Will you or will you not, become a Candidate with the many to meet in convention, if
                                    the law to authorize it shall be enacted by Congress?—If long absence
                                    would allow me, I should be gratified in passing two or three days with you on my
                                    return. I shall hardly do more than obtain a nights lod[g]ing with you. With much
                                    esteem and regard yours
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, Attention of Capt. Carr
                        
                                    July 26th 1816
                                
                        [Minnie Graham Zapp, New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Indiana]
                        D. Sir
                        I take the liberty of introducing to you Capt. John Carr, who is a candidate for the
                                    office of sheriff at the ensuing election. Although I have not taken, any part in
                                    the election, believing it not my best course, I have in this instance to request of
                                    you, to introduce him to such of your acquaintances and friends as may be convenient
                                    for you. You may rest assured that he is a young gentleman worthy of your attention
                                    and mine.
                        How goes on the electioneering campaign in your quarter of the County. Perhaps you
                                    could inform on the Capt. return—
                        
                                    Yours with esteemed regard
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [To Jesse L. Holman]
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Charleston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feby 15th 1817
                                
                        [Margaret H. Wagenhals, 
                                        New York
                                     City]
                        My dear Sir.
                        The Constitution nor laws of this State provides that any officer shall give a legal
                                    opinion to the Executive. A question has been made, whether the Executive can
                                    withold the Commission of a Clerk elect, upon notice of an intended contest, until
                                    such contest can be decided. Without any reference to objections which may be made
                                    to any of the late elections, allow me to request of you the favour, to inform me by
                                    letter shortly, of your opinion on the subject, viz. Can the Executive withold
                                    commissions of clerks on notice or evidence of contest, under the Constitution and
                                    law.
                        In asking this favour, I will add that I ask the same of your colleagues on the
                                    Supreme Bench, and as it presents no question which can come Judicially before the
                                    Supreme Court, I have solicited your legal opinion, inasmuch as the Legislature, has
                                    not provided for a case of dissatisfaction which arise in relation to the election
                                    of Clerks, and there are more instances than one—I am with esteem yours
                                    truly.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                        P. S. Please address me at 
                                        Charleston
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jesse L. Holeman, 
                                        Decatur
                                     [Lawrenceburgh], Indiana.7
                        
                        
                                    
                              Corydon
                           
                                    Dec. 19th 1818
                                
                        [Margaret H. Wagenhals, 
                                        New York
                                     City]
                        Dear Sir.
                        I received your letter by Doc. Ferris and am obliged to you for the trouble you have
                                    taken in the monied concern which you had. It is all correct and satisfactory and
                                    herewith I return the receipt the receipt [sic] and pay the
                                    postage of this letter as it principally regards my own interest and business.
                        I will now give you some detail of political events. On the meeting of the
                                    Legislature, great exertion was made in the House of Representatives, to recognize
                                    Lt. Govr. as acting, upon the reports of the news papers of the day, or upon what
                                    Harrison considered as an official communication through the Paper edited by Mr.
                                    Nelson. I cannot enter upon a detail of all the various resolutions and motions,
                                    they would croud a sheet themselves, but when you see them your good sense will
                                    perceive the solecisms which several of them present.
                        The House after spending several days on the subject indefinitely postponed it. Since
                                    when several seem very anxious to fix on a candidate that may out poll me next
                                    august, and talk as if desirous of having a caucus for that
                                    purpose. The Senate had nothing to do in the whole transaction, at least by any act
                                    which appears on the record of their proceedings Those who are most desirous of
                                    affecting me urge the idea of bringing you forward as a candidate for the Office of
                                    Govenor at next election.
                        What I have given you is the substance of what has transpired here, except what the
                                    publick papers will give you. I have delay writing until the "Govenor
                                    question," was decided and delayed also until nearly the hour of the mail.
                        Excuse my short letter, and believe me yours with respect &
                                    esteem—
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Samuel 
                                        Milroy
                                    
                        
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    Dec: 28th. 1822
                                
                        [Mrs. Mary S. Clauser, 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , Indiana]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        Yours of the 3d instant, you must know, only reached me by the last Western mail,
                                    from which you will perceive how uncertain are our mails at this season of the year.
                        With regard to the Land Office appointment, there are many applicants, most of whom
                                    [are] my political friends and some of them very respectable. There names I must
                                    give (I mean those entitled to that attention) to the government with yours, and
                                    likewise their general character, and then shall designate those whom I wish to be
                                    appointed; viz yourself and one other. This course I have deemed
                                    in the first place, as proper with regard to all the applicants, and in the last
                                    place, as proper with regard to myself. This course I shall pursue and none other,
                                    and shall be gratified if you shall succeed. I had a 
                              
                                 7 This letter was sent via 
                                                Lawrenceburg
                                            . As a result of Holman's influence, the name of 
                                                Decatur
                                             was later charged to 
                                                Aurora
                                            .
                           
                                     conversation with Mr. Brown of Penna. who will
                                    aid you as far as he can.
                        We have here a great field of intrigue and arrangements, and Indiana may again be
                                    made the upping-block for others, but if any but citizens receive
                                    appointments in our state hereafter while I am here at least, I shall take some
                                    trouble to let the good people of the State know the fact and the circumstances
                                    leading to such transaction if it shall ever again take place.
                        Every thing here among certain men of certain views look with a very jealous eye upon
                                    any proposition which touches the Public Lands or the completion of our great
                                    Western national road; more so than I could have believed before I witnessed it.
                                    There is a system of management here to make a certain man President, which goes to
                                    great lengths; but I want to see Domestic manufacturers flourish and internal
                                    improvement progress as fast as these objects can be accomplished without a resort
                                    to internal tax; and as to taxing the manufacturing of whiskey without levying a tax
                                    or impost upon imported spirits, which would amount to a prohibition of its
                                    consumption in the U. States unless by the Overgrown in wealth, the idea is absurd.
                                    Narrow policy always takes narrow measures; for you know that a tax would be popular
                                    in your County with those who think it a moral evil either to make the whiskey let
                                    alone to drink it—
                        There is nothing here to interest you, but what the Newspapers contain.
                        
                                    I am very respectfully your obt. Humble St.
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Indiana
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                           
                                    Feby 7th 1823
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dear Sir.
                        Such is my situation, that I am entirely unable to oblige you. Coopers
                                    disappointments have given me much difficulty and I am expecting a draft upon me
                                    after a few days, that will be as much as I can meet & indeed before long
                                    and before summer I shall be on the borrowing list, unless Cooper shall do something
                                    for me. I am sorry it is not in my [power] to oblige you but so it is.
                        We have no news but such as the Newspapers detail, except managements &
                                    intrigues with regard to the next Presidency.
                        
                                    I am your friend sincerely
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To General Samuel 
                              Milroy,
                                            Salem
                           , Indiana
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Charleston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sepr. 6th. 1823
                                
                        [Mrs. Mary S. Clauser, 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , Indiana]
                        Dear Sir
                        Some difficulty has occurred between Jno. H. Thompson and myself in relation to a few
                                    facts with regard to the relief of purchasers of Publick lands Thompson says he
                                    first raised his voice in behalf of the purchasers, without a hint from any man but
                                    Genl. S. Milroy. I have understood that you intimated to Thompson, that your county
                                         was interested in a measure, which you
                                    intended to introduce the next day, which was a motion in behalf of Land purchasers,
                                    and that Thompson, took the advantage of you and introduced it without your consent
                                    or knowledge and with which you were displeased. This took place during the Session
                                    of 1819 & 1820—
                        Will you oblige me by giving the facts to me in a letter, with regard to this
                                    business, and be pleased to state what were the prayers of the Memorial sent to
                                    Congress pursuant to Thompson's resolution—
                        You will oblige me much by giving me an answer as soon as possible—I do
                                    not intend to publish your letter at any time unless with your express consent, but
                                    to have it as a document—
                        I am yours with esteem & regard
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To Jesse L. Holeman, 
                                        Aurora
                                    , Dearborne County, Indiana.
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Charleston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sep. 6th 1824
                                
                        [Margaret H. Wagenhals, 
                                        New York
                                     City]
                        Dr. Sir.
                        I was desirous to have seen you, when you were in this neighbourhood lately; but was
                                    prevented by the weather, on account of my health, from detaining longer on Monday
                                    evening after preaching, at the association.
                        I have been solicited to address you in behalf of Chauncy 
                                        Butler
                                     Esq. of Jennings Co who is desirous of being the bearer of the result
                                    of the election of President & Vice President of the U. States, to the City
                                    of 
                                        Washington
                                    —
                        He has a journey to make Eastward, and is a very respectable and deserving man and
                                    you perhaps may have a knowledge of him. If consistent with the duty you may have to
                                    discharge as an elector, he could succeed in his wishes, it would be gratifying to
                                    your friend & Humble St
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham, New 
                              Albany,
                                            Floyd County
                           , Indiana
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Charleston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 17th 1825
                                
                        [Minnie Graham Zapp, New 
                                        Albany
                                    , Indiana]
                        My dear Sir.
                        I have never learned whether you got a copy of the Report of the Engineers invitation
                                    to a "Western Armory"—After you and I last parted I
                                    called at the office of the "Indiana Intelligencer Co" but they
                                    were disappointed—The Report I sent was in the hands of Mr. Lingan and he
                                    not at home at the time but Dunkin told me he would have the pamphlet at Doc.r Hays
                                    on the succeeding day—There is a copy however in the hands of O. Raymond
                                    Esqr. at 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    . I should be extremely gratified, if you could investigate and make
                                    some comments on so much of it as relates to the opposite sides of the falls of 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Having been practically engaged in the surveys, you are able no doubt
                                    to give much in addition to what you gave me last winter in as much as, at that
                                    time, you had not the official report of the engineers before you—If I
                                    could get your comments on it by the first of January or 15th of December next, it
                                    would be very gratifying to me.
                        
                        Mrs. J. is still confined to bed has gained I think, a small accession of strength
                                    and her stomach is not so subject to sickness and cascading as it was two or three
                                    months since—
                        A friend of mind Mr. James M. Ross of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     contemplates being a candidate for a clerkship in the body to which you
                                    belong—He is well qualified and at his request I address you. He is quite
                                    a dilligent, obliging and if he shall succeed you will find him I have no doubt, a
                                    very faithful and punctual officer—I have no wish to injure any of the
                                    many, or few, who may like him be applicants, but he is my friend and I believe
                                    competent—I have then only to add confidentially, that
                                    if you should be under no propositions and should find yourself at liberty,
                                    consistent with your duty, to support his pretentions it would I am sure, be
                                    gratifying to me, and gratefully acknowledged by himself—I have been much
                                    confined from various causes, too tedious to mention but not the
                                    less your friend with un-diminished esteem and regard—
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To John K. Graham
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 4th 1826
                                
                        [Mrs. W. H. McDonald, North Platte, 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ]
                        Dear Sir.
                        I transmit you a copy of the Bill reported by the Committee on Roads and Canals in
                                    this House,—When it became the order of the day the Committee of the
                                    whole, took up the Bill on the same Subject, which had previously passed the Senate,
                                    and which Bill from the senate, (now having become a law) is substantially what the
                                    enclosed Bill, except the 3d Section, which the Senate's Bill did not
                                    contain—Now Hendricks is a member of the Committee of Roads and Canals of
                                    the Senate, which reported the Bill, which is not a law—This is
                                    remembering the hopes and wishes of the 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     Canal
                        I proposed the third Section of the enclosed Bill as an amendment, and as an
                                    additional section, to the Bill from the Senate, when before this House, and
                                    intimated to Mr. Haynes to offer as an amendment to my amendment the proposition to
                                    have a survey of both sides of the river before any payment should be made to the 
                                        Louisville
                                     Company and upon condition that the Engineers should report of the 
                                        Louisville
                                     side of the River, which amendment to my amendment I afterwards
                                    accepted—The whole however has been voted down and $100,000 is
                                    appropriated to to [sic] the 
                                        Louisville
                                     company, to be paid as the enclosed Bill designates, without the third
                                    section—
                        The relief Bill is passed more favourably to the Debtors than the Bill which passed
                                    two years ago—
                        In haste your friend, etc.
                        
                                    Jonathan Jennings
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Origin and Development of the Missionary Baptist Church of Indiana. By John
                    A. Cady. (
                  Franklin: Franklin
                College, 1942. Pp. 354. $3.00.)
            This well-written, fully documented volume is an excellent example of recent encouraging developments
                    in denominational history-writing in the 
                        United States
                    . The author is a trained historian; and the volume is based upon an impressive list of
                    primary sources, many of them manuscripts. Though a loyal Baptist, Mr. Cady opproaches his task as
                    an objective historian. He is not blind to the faults and failures of the church of his inheritance,
                    nor is he lacking in understanding and appreciation of its contributions. The book is also
                    undergirded by an unusual number of recent special studies, most of them University of 
                        Chicago
                     Master's and Doctor's theses. It is heartening to have this evidence
                    of their worth. Indeed, it is the increase of such studies which renders the rewriting of church
                    history in America a welcome necessity, and Mr. Cady is to be commended for helping to set a high
                    standard for such rewriting.
            As everywhere in the early West, the Baptist gospel was first propagated in Indiana by
                    farmer-preachers, most of whom had crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Southern Indiana was therefore the region of greatest Baptist strength in the early
                    years and has remained so to the present time. To a greater degree than in any other early religious
                    body, the first Indiana Baptist leadership sprang from the soil, which helps account for the fact
                    that in a majority of cases the Baptists were the first to form churches in new communities. The
                    ease with which local leaders could find a following and form new Baptist congregations led, not
                    only to the rapid multiplication of Baptist churches, but also rendered difficult the achievement of
                    any large degree of unity among them. Indeed, the slightest differences often led to the division of
                    churches, and the whole of Indiana Baptist history is distressingly full of accounts of bitter
                    controversy. Indiana was an early stronghold of anti-mission sentiment, and for years the churches
                    wasted their energies in purposeless strife over that issue. In fact Indiana Baptist history is a
                    glaring example of the weakness  of loose organization. The
                    complete independence of the congregation, a fundamental Baptist principle, was a constant
                    temptation for the Baptists to go off in all directions.
            The two most interesting names in connection with Baptist beginnings in Indiana are Isaac McCoy and
                    Judge Jesse L. Holman, both of whom have been accounted worthy of inclusion in the Dictionary of American Biography. McCoy gained distinction because of his devotion to the
                    cause of the Indians. As a young pastor of the Maria Creek Baptist Church, McCoy stood firmly for
                    the cause of missions against an overwhelming opposition sentiment. After-establishing several
                    Baptist Indian missions, McCoy was appointed in 1830 by John C. Calhoun, then Secretary of War, as a
                    special Indian agent in assisting Indians to migrate westward. His writings on the Indian situation
                    of his days have a large historical value.
            Judge Holman is an excellent example of the best type of frontier lay leadership and well illustrates
                    the widespread influences exerted by men of religious character on the rude American frontier.
                    Coming to Indiana in 1810 from 
                        Kentucky
                     where he had read law in the office of Henry 
                        Clay
                    , he identified himself at once with the Indiana Baptists and never permitted his
                    increasing responsibilities as legislator, circuit judge, and finally federal judge from crowding
                    out his interest in religion and education. One of the founders of Indiana University, he was also
                    prominnent in the founding of 
                        Franklin
                     College; and Mr. Cady credits him also with furnishing the principal influence in the
                    founding of the General Association of Indiana Baptists.
            The Indiana Missionary Baptists made worthy contributions to education and founded numerous academies
                    as well as several colleges within the bounds of the state. None of the academies were well
                    supported, due to the "badly dissapated" Baptist energies. Nor have the Indiana
                    Baptists been wholehearted in the support of 
                        Franklin
                     College, the strongest Baptist institution of collegiate rank in the state. Here again
                    lack of unity has been chiefly responsible rather than lack of interest in education.
            As a whole, Indiana Baptists have leaned strongly in the direction of conservatism. This is doubtless
                    chiefly due to the lack of an educated ministry and the rural character of the great majority of
                    their churches. Liberal tendencies,  however, have made some
                    progress since the beginning of the century. A few churches, located largely in the northern part of
                    the state, now receive members by letter from other evangelical bodies. During the fundamentalist
                    controversy of the nineteen-twenties, the Indiana Baptists were torn asunder; and a number of
                    churches withdrew all relationship from the state organizations. Others were split over the issues
                    involved. There seems to be no doubt but that the Baptists are the most conservative large
                    Protestant body within the state of Indiana. The Indiana Baptists, therefore, will not be found
                    among the "radicals," nor will they be in the vanguard of the army of reform; but
                    they will doubtless continue to stand staunchly by the old standards and the fundamental truths.
            William W. Sweet
         
         
            
               America's Natural Wealth, A Story of the Use and Abuse of Our
                    Resources. By Richard Lieber. (
                        New York
                     and 
                        London
                    : Harper and Brothers, 1942. Pp. xiv, 245. Illustrations. $2.50.)
            Richard Lieber is known throughout the 
                        United States
                     as the organizer, under Governor James P. Goodrich and the Act of the 1919 General
                    Assembly, of the Indiana Department of Conservation. As its director until 1933, he established the
                    principles and procedures which insured its successful operation. He developed also the system of
                    state parks which made him a national leader in the conservation movement. In a smaller circle,
                    Colonel Lieber has long been known as a profound student of the natural resources of the 
                        United States
                     and the proponent of sound principles for their conservation and utilization. Many
                    schemes of conservation, hastily conceived on the basis of a single observation or suggestion, have
                    produced conflicts among conservationists and have discredited the movement. (Colonel Lieber thinks
                    the double suffix in "conservationists" shows remoteness from reality; the genuine
                    workers are "conservators.") The author's approach to the discussion of
                    America's natural wealth combines both long practical experience and thorough historical
                    study; his treatment throughout is historical.
            Following his example, libraries and readers should add to his book the pamphlet on State Planning published  by the late National
                    Resources Planning Board in June, 1942 (for sale by the Superintendent of Documents in 
                        Washington
                     at thirty cents), in which Appendix B (pp. 94–134) gives an annotated list
                    of "State Conservation Legislation" prepared under Richard Lieber's
                    supervision and intended for this book but omitted owing to the exigencies of publication.
            The narrative of America's Natural Wealth combines a description of our
                    natural resources, a history of the treatment of our natural resources through the years of the
                    white man's occupation, a history of the conservation movement, a plea for unity among
                    conservators on a well-considered program, and suggestions for such a program.
            The foundation must be an efficient, unified—though not too
                    centralized—structure of government, national, state and local, and a sound policy of
                    conservation. Quite a contrast to the hundreds of semi-independent agencies and the "one
                    hundred and nine different plans of geographical subdivisions of the 
                        United States
                    " used by the various government agencies at the time of writing (probably more
                    now) ! "The administrative work of the executive branch should be carried on by a few
                    regional units, each set up to cover all the work contemplated for its region."
            The body of the book follows the pattern of description, history, and plea for improvement in each of
                    five chapters devoted respectively to Minerals, Water, Forests, Land, and Scenery. In the section
                    devoted to scenery, Chapter XVIII, "The Care and Feeding of Parks," recapitulating
                    Colonel Lieber's experience of many years, is really a priceless manual which should be
                    read and reread by every one in any way connected with parks. The last chapter, "Sowing and
                    Reaping," describes "Conservation on the March"; it closes with a
                    critical, i.e., an objective appreciation of the Civilian Conservation Corps, and short references
                    to the Public Works Administration and the National Resources Planning Board. An appendix of
                    fourteen pages gives a very convenient and valuable "Chronology of Events Affecting
                    Conservation of Natural Resources," beginning with "1626—
                        Plymouth
                     Colony regulated the sale of lumber," etc., and closing with
                    "1942—Civilian Conservation Corps liquidated." There is a good
                    five-page index.
            Christopher B. Coleman
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and the Patronage. By Harry J. Carman and Reinhard H. Luthin. (
                        New York
                     City: 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1943. Pp. x, 375. Illustrations. $4.50.)
            Those uncritical idolaters of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     who insist on regarding him as an impossible superman will not like this book.
                    Fortunately, they are few in number. Discriminating students of the Civil War President's
                    life will welcome it as a major contribution to Lincolniana. In reality, this fine work adds stature
                    to 
                        Lincoln
                    's greatness. As the authors well express it: "Many 
                        Lincoln
                     admirers find it distasteful—perhaps unbelievable—to recognize in
                    their hero the shrewd practical politician that he was. But to recognize how, as a politician, he
                    utilized the patronage in holding together diverse conflicting factions in common
                    purposes—the preservation of the Union, the success of his administration, and the
                    rewarding of the party faithful—is only to enhance the greatness of 
                        Lincoln
                    ."
            With scholarly thoroughness, the authors describe how 
                        Lincoln
                     handled the patronage from 1861 to 1865, how he awarded the government jobs, big and
                    small, to the eager horde of office-seekers who besieged him from the moment of his election to the
                    day of his death. Every aspect of the Federal patronage is discussed. Through the story move Cabinet
                    members, Supreme Court justices, generals, ambassadors and consuls, postmasters and paymasters, port
                    collectors and marshals. Great national figures appear, Seward, Chase, Stanton, Weed, and a host of
                    minor men whose importance was that they were the bone and sinew of the Republican machine. The
                    authors conclude that 
                        Lincoln
                     accepted the spoils system. So did every other political leader of the day. The
                    accession of the Republicans to power in 186] "was the occasion for the most sweeping
                    removal of federal officeholders up to that time in American history." No President was
                    ever confronted by a more difficult patronage situation, and 
                        Lincoln
                     handled it as wisely as any human could. His was the terribly difficult task of holding
                    together the most heterogenous party in our political history. An adroit patronage policy was one of
                    the factors that enabled him to keep his party intact. And by preserving the Republican
                    organization, the war party, he helped to preserve the Union.
            A tremendous amount of research was necessary to produce  this
                    book. The information the authors needed was scattered through an unusually wide number of sources,
                    some of them painfully obscure. It must have been particularly difficult to run down the careers of
                    the scores of minor figures who sought and obtained office from 
                        Lincoln
                    . That Professors Carman and Luthin did their task well is attested by a twenty-five
                    page bibliography.
            The authors have invested their story with significance. The information is massive, but the book
                    never becomes a mere catalogue of names and facts. The literary style is marred by frequent use of
                    such awkward phrases as "we now turn our attention to" and "as we have
                    just observed." There are a few typographical slips and factual errors which alert critics
                    will call to the attention of the authors. These minor flaws, however, detract in no way from the
                    excellence of the book.
            T. Harry Williams
         
         
            
               The Indiana Home. By Logan Esarey. Edited by R. Carlyle Buley. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    : R. E. Banta, 1943. Pp. 110. Frontispiece. $3.00.)
            Five essays plus two tall tales, which were not originally written for publication, compose this
                    little book on Indiana life prior to the Civil War by the late Logan Esarey of Indiana University.
                    The essays are "The First Inhabitants," "A Log Cabin in the
                    Clearing," "The Indiana Home," "Farm Life in the
                    Fifties," and "The Settler Becomes a Citizen." The two tales are
                    "The Bewitching of Blackstock" and "The Bull Frogs of Reily
                    Hole."
            The book is a blending of miscellaneous notes which were used in class lectures and in talks before
                    historical groups. Any of Dr. Esarey's former students can read the book and have
                    long-forgotten places, old familiar phrases and people brought back. The former student will be able
                    to review his acquaintance with Esarey and with Indiana history as only Esarey could interpret it.
            Here is history made palatable, history as intimate and disarming as the tales around the baseburner
                    on a winter evening at the village store, and yet as true as a long life of devoted and exacting
                    scholarship could make it. It is not a history in the accepted sense; it is something much  more. It is drama. Esarey has done what Hamlet told his players
                    to do—he has "held the mirror up to nature."
            The historian will not be disappointed, for historically, the book is accurate. The homely phrases of
                    the pioneer are preserved and, what is more rare, the Hoosier dialect is presented in its true form.
                    What he tells is not a formal story of how the settlers came and took up land, planted, built
                    churches and towns and roads, formed governments, and grew wealthy. All of this emerges from his
                    pages, but it is not the soul of his book. What he has captured and put into this slender volume is
                    a people and their epic—an epic salted with the authentic vernacular of the Border and
                    moving with the quiet power of men and women who were big in love and laughter, in work and in
                    faith.
            There is nothing anemic about his people (you know they are his) or about his
                    history. It sweeps you along with the lusty humor of the hills and the heart-catching
                    self-sufficiency of folk who fought, worked, and laughed as if they meant it. Such a book is like a
                    breath of fresh air in a stuffy night.
            Ralph Watson
         
         
            
               James Hall, Literary Pioneer of the Ohio Valley. By John T.
                    Flanagan. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1941. Pp. vii, 218. $2.50.)
            Judge James Hall was an important man in the history of the Middle West, 1820–1868; he was
                    also an interesting one—soldier, lawyer, judge (once a judge, always a judge in the
                    West), politician, editor, novelist, poet, banker, but above all, advocate of the West. The student
                    of the history of the region might well mark the progress of his work by the frequency of his
                    contacts with James Hall. Yet a century has relegated the man to an undeserved obscurity.
            In the average college course on the history of the West, Hall is conspicuous by his absence; in two
                    of the most widely used textbooks he is not even mentioned. The reason is that good libraries are
                    scarce; good scholars and teachers in the field are scarcer.
            James Hall came West from Pittsburg1 in 1820. At Shawneetown and Vandalia he
                    practiced law, served as judge, helped edit the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Intelligencer, founded the 
                        Illinois
                    
                    
                  
                     1 This is the reviewer's spelling.
               
                     Historical Society and in 1830, the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Monthly Magazine. In 1833 he moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he edited the Western Monthly Magazine for four more years. The
                    next thirty years of his life were devoted to banking and business, but his pen was never idle.
                    Among his more important works were Letters for the West (1828), Legends of the West (1832), Sketches of History, Life and Manners in the
                    West (1835), Statistics of the West (1836), Notes on the Western
                        States (1838) and, with Thomas McKenney, History of the Indian Tribes of North
                        America (1836–1844). In addition he wrote one novel, some fifty tales, and quite
                    a bit of poetry. Many of these works, as are the two periodicals, are fairly rare items today.
            Professor Flanagan attempts no complete narrative life of Hall. Twenty pages cover his youth; the
                    lawyer and journalist are sketched in fifteen more. Brief chapters cover the political and editing
                    periods. In all these the chronology of Hall's writings is clear. The meat of the book lies
                    in the chapters on Hall as "Romancer and Historian," as "Library
                    Critic," as "Storyteller," and in the chapter on "Characteristic
                    Ideas." Little of significance is missed. The vigorous editor lambasting at English
                    travellers who tried to give America a black eye; judging the merits of literary works on the basis
                    of their contributors to morality and patriotism; his frank and at times blatant pleading for the
                    West; his advocacy of a truly American literature; his interest in Indians, the public land
                    question, agriculture, trade, transportation, and finance; his second-rate novel and tales (first
                    rate only in the settings, lesser characters and fairly authentic dialect) and his third-rate poetry
                    (often used as filler in his magazine) are all clearly and fairly treated. Not to be overlooked is
                    the complete bibliography of Hall's writings. The documentation is adequate and correct in
                    form.
            The author modestly states his purpose as that of presenting an adequate picture of a man
                    "not a major figure in American history." Who knows for sure who the major figures
                    are? Certainly not always the historian. For a few minutes of physical bravery (very common in this
                    world) or a few weeks of hardship and the possession of a certain type of leadership, the George
                    Rogers Clarks, the Waynes, or the Harrisons become major figures. The men who help mold the
                    thinking, record the history, pioneer in  medicine, build the
                    schools, found the banks, and carry on the commerce too often get lost in the shuffle. In a
                    generation which saw Daniel Drake, Caleb Atwater, Timothy Flint, John James Audubon, Mann 
                        Butler
                    , Henry R. Schoolcraft, William D. Gallagher, to name a few, living and writing on the
                    West, Judge Hall occupied a position second to none.
            If he be a second-rate personage, Professor Flanagan has done a first-rate study of him. Sad, but
                    true, the modern historians of the Middle West have neglected the early historians (who also helped
                    make the history) of the region. It is to the students of literature—the Rusks, Dondores,
                    Hazards, and Flanagans—that their students must turn for help.
            Could the reviewer have this book rewritten to order, he would specify another hundred pages and more
                    emphasis upon Hall as historian and publicist. The men of this period has as broad a concept of
                    history as none but a few have today. The Turner viewpoint of half a century later, the
                    "New History" of James H. Robinson, Harry Elmer Barnes et al,
                    the social history and economic history but recently discovered was all old stuff to these men of a
                    century ago—to Flint and Hall particularly. He would also specify more liberal quotations
                    from Hall's writings. The hefty prose of that day can not be transferred by summary or
                    paraphrase; least of all, that of James Hall. Only first hand can the reader get the essence of the
                    man and his thought. But the reviewer is prejudiced in favor of Hall; in fact, he has long been a
                    Hall fan. Naturally he is prejudiced in favor of any historical job well done, so much so that he
                    passes the opportunity to call attention to a few doubtful statements on history not germane to the
                    study of James Hall.
            The book is attractively printed and well edited. It makes a neat as well as indispensable addition
                    to the library on Midwest history.
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               The Old South. The Founding of American Civilization. By Thomas Jefferson
                    Wertenbaker. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribiier's Sons, 1942. Pp. xvi, 364. Illustrations.
                    $3.50.)
            This significant volume on the civilization of the South by the eminent authority on colonial 
                        Virginia
                     should be read by every student of early American history. The author's  early writings have already marked him as one of the leading
                    historians of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Pointing out the riches bestowed by nature upon the South, Professor Wertenbaker declared them to
                    have become the curse of the region because they led to an extravagant wastage of soil and the
                    introduction of slavery. He described the Old South as made up of five sub-divisions: the tobacco
                    country, the mercantile section, the pine belt, the rice and indigo region, and the back country.
                    Much of the volume, however, is devoted to describing the civilization of the two staple-producing
                    regions and the back country and the conflict that developed between the two major types of
                    life—that of the planter and that of the farmer.
            In the Tidewater of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     there arose the earlier white civilization of the English colonies. Chapters on the
                    intellectual life of the tobacco aristocrat and his architectural activities indicate sources
                    utilized extensively by the author. The colonial aristocracy was not a transplanted one but a
                    product of the plantation, the accumulation of wealth, and the command of servants and slaves.
                    English influence in shaping the intellectual life of the planter was pronounced in education,
                    literature, architecture, arts, and religion; but it was modified by the plantation system and
                    isolation. A highly significant story is told of the development of architecture in the colonial
                    period.
            The settlement of the Piedmont produced a new society based upon that of the Tidewater but differing
                    because of isolation and the costs and difficulties of transportation. Soil exhaustion and virgin
                    western soils induced a further westward migration that also lessened the ties with 
                        England
                    . A significant clash of cultures occurred west of the Blue Ridge where Cohees, the
                    non-English immigrants coming down the valley, met the Tuckahoes, who were the Virginians from east
                    of the mountains. The Germans in the valley surrendered many customs but adhered tenaciously to
                    their own system of agriculture. The Scotch-Irish, too, gave up much but did not surrender their
                    Presbyterianism. Neither accepted completely the plantation system or its slave labor. The Tuckahoe
                    often gave up his more wasteful agricultural methods.
            The lack of a large artisan class was a deterrent to democracy in the South, while the rise of
                    "Mansions on the  Ashley" greatly strengthened
                    the aristocracy of the South and also increased the force of English influence. The land system of
                    the Southern colonies was unquestionably "second only to the slave system in building up
                    the aristocratic type of society"; but migration westward seriously interfered with
                    tenantry, one of the features of an unsound system.
            The work is attractively printed and bound, but the illustrations must be noted particularly because
                    of the fifty-six beautiful and instructive photographs. Readers may differ on certain controversial
                    points, but errors of fact seem to be unusually few. Samuel Doah (pp. 210, 312) should have been
                    Samuel Doak, but such exceptions are hardly worth noticing. In the earlier volume in this series,
                    the emphasis upon architecture seemed an overemphasis without adequate interpretative connection
                    with the history of the region, but surely this cannot be alleged against the present
                    work—a very significant work.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            OLD ISSUES WANTED
            
               Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, No. 1, March, 1922.
            The price of this number has recently been placed at $1.50 or $6.00 for the
                    entire volume. If the price does not seem adequate and you have a copy or a volume to sell, please
                    quote your price. Several older numbers are also needed.
            Address: Indiana Magazine of History Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana
            Periodicals of the camps of the armed forces and of the ordnance plants in Indiana.
            The War History Commission at Indiana University is endeavoring to collect complete files of the
                    newspapers and magazines published by these war institutions. In a number of cases there are gaps in
                    our files. If you have copies of these periodicals, will you not notify us or send them to us?
                    Perhaps some of the libraries in the state would care to exchange duplicates with us. In a number of
                    instances we have duplicate numbers which we will exchange.
            Address: War History Commission Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana
            
               
                  Plant or Training Camp
                  Number Wanted
               
               
                  
                            Name of Publication
                        
                  
                            Vol.
                        
                  
                            No.
                        
                  
                            Date
                        
               
               
                  Indiana Ordnance Works 
                                Charlestown
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Powder Horn
                        
                  I
                  1
                  July, 1941
               
               
                   
                   
                  2
                  August, 1941
               
               
                   
                   
                  3
                  Sept., 1941
               
               
                  
                     
                                Kingsbury
                             Ordnance Plant 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Pellet Press
                        
                  I
                  1–51
                  January to December, 1941
               
               
               
                  Maxon Construction Company Burns City, Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Safety Beacon
                        
                  I
                  All
                  January to December, 1941
               
               
                   
                  II
                  1
                  January, 1942
               
               
                   
                   
                  3
                  February, 1942
               
               
                   
                   
                  6
                  June, 1942
               
               
                   
                   
                  7
                  July, 1942
               
               
                  Jefferson Proving Ground 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Fragments
                        
                  11–324
                   
                  December 23, 1939 to February 4, 1943
               
               
                  Civilian Public Service Camp No. 6 Lagro, Indiana
               
               
                  Sa bamonie Peace Pipe
                  All since July 25, 1941
               
               
                  Civilian Puvlic Service Camp No. 14 Merom, Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Plowshare
                        
                  1
                  1
                  August 22, 1941
               
               
                   
                   
                  3
                  October 16, 1941
               
               
                   
                   
                  6
                  January, 1942
               
               
                   
                  +
                  8
                  March, 1942
               
               
                   
                   
                  13
                  August, 1942
               
               
                   
                   
                  17
                  January, 1943
               
               
                  Freeman Field 
                                Seymour
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Twngine Times
                        
                  I
                  1–23
                  March 5 to August 6, 1943
               
               
                  Naval Flight Preparatory School 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            Hoosier Sky Writer
                        
                  I
                  3
                  Feb. 26, 1943
               
               
                  Stout Field 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana
               
               
                  
                            The Fielder
                        
                  I
                  1–19
                  December 24, 1942 to October 12, 1943
               
            
         
         
         
            GENEALOGICAL SECTION
            
                    Genealogical Material in the Indiana State Library
                
            BY ANNA POUCHER
            The collection of material in the Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library constitutes a
                    reference and research library from which nothing circulates. In order that the public may keep in
                    touch with its nature and growth, occasional lists of its additions have been published in the Indiana Magazine of History. The last previous list appeared in March, 1941.
                    Accessions since then have been so numerous that only a general outline, or summary, can be given at
                    this time.
            FAMILY HISTORIES
            Family histories, naturally, are in large proportion to other specific material. Within the last few
                    months, over two hundred of these have been received in book, pamphlet, manuscript, and chart form.
                    These range from manuscripts of only a few pages to large and extensive volumes, and have been
                    acquired through donation and through purchase. It has been found that the average compiler of a
                    genealogy is more than willing to place a copy of his work in a library where proper attention will
                    be given to its use and preservation. Through solicitation on the part of the order librarian of the
                    Indiana State Library, who is on the alert for new publications, a number of family histories, some
                    of which might otherwise have been prohibitive, have been added to the collection. These have come
                    from twenty-eight states, aside from Indiana. A constant request on the part of the Genealogy
                    Section is that all persons compiling histories of Indiana families place copies in this library.
            The library has obtained a number of outstanding genealogies through purchase; and by consulting book
                    catalogues and book sales, it has been able to secure many of these at reduced rates. Since the size
                    of a compilation is not always a gauge for its value, no attempt is made in this article to present
                    a discriminating list; but even the smallest manuscript is brought out under the family name in the
                    genealogy  catalogue. One interesting acquisition might be
                    mentioned, and that is the copy of the Genealogy of Samuel and Hannah Stebbins,
                    1707–1771, published at 
                        Hartford
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    , 1771, and purported to be the first genealogy brought out in printed form.
            LOCAL HISTORIES AND RECORDS
            Locality has been the basis for the cataloguing, shelving, and practical use of the Genealogy
                    collection. Since March, 1941, fully one hundred and seventy-five county and town histories (not
                    including the number of volumes in sets) and special records of a local nature, involving
                    twenty-four states, have been added. This is exclusive of pamphlet material. Special records include
                    vital records (births, marriages, deaths), cemetery and church records, probate records,
                    directories, and miscellaneous material. A number of gifts of local material have been received.
            FOREIGN MATERIAL
            Although it has seemed advisable for the present to concentrate on material dealing with the 
                        United States
                    , the foreign collection is growing perceptibly. The series of the Harleian Society
                    Visitations and Parish Registers, instituted some time ago, is proving valuable, and volumes are
                    being added as published. Some separate county or shire histories of 
                        England
                     have been acquired. A most noteworthy gift is that of five rare volumes published in 
                        England
                     and dealing with Leeds and Yorkshire. Another much prized gift is the copy of the Parish and Town of Enniskillen, 
                            Ireland
                        
                sent from 
                        Ireland
                     by a former staff member in service abroad. Other additions include: Philips' Handy Atlas of the Counties of 
                            England
                        ; a late edition of O'Hart's Irish
                    Pedigrees in two volumes; Lart's two volumes of Hugenot Pedigrees;
                    and additional material on Scottish clans.
            PATRIOTIC AND HISTORICAL SOCIETIES
            It is a source of satisfaction that the patriotic and historical societies of Indiana have shown a
                    constant interest in placing valuable publications and records in the Genealogy Section.
            The Society of Colonial Dames is maintaining its custom of contributing memorial volumes in honor of
                    its deceased members. Two of its recent additions are Church
                    
                    Records of
                    
                        Lawrenceville
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , 1941, published by the 
                        New Jersey
                     Society of Colonial Dames, and the East Haven, [
                        Connecticut
                    ] Register, 1644–1800, published in 1824. The Society of
                    Colonial Wars, which is depositing its entire library collection in the Genealogy Section, has added
                    some records of the General Council of the Society, some special state publications, and the new First Supplement to the 1922 Index of Ancestors and Roll of Members, published in
                    1941.
            The Indiana Chapter of the Daughters of Colonial Wars, organized in 1939, already has contributed its
                    volume, Membership List and Index to Ancestors, published in 1941.
            Through the Genealogy Committee of the Indiana Daughters of the American Revolution, with
                    subcommittees in its various chapters, a large number of genealogical compilations, including Bible,
                    cemetery, church, lineage, marriage, probate, and miscellaneous records, have been added. These have
                    been received from chapters in the following counties: 
                        Franklin
                    , Howard, Jefferson, Jennings, Johnson, 
                  Kosciusko, Madison, Marion
               , Noble, Porter, Rush, 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and Vigo. A few separate family histories compiled by members have been received in
                    addition to a volume of histories of Indiana chapters compiled in 1942. The Caroline Scott Harrison
                    Chapter, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is preparing a copy of its index to members and ancestors, which will be placed in
                    this library.
            Since 1941, the Indiana chapter of the Daughters of Founders and Patriots has added three volumes of
                    Bolton's Founders and Patriots and three volumes of Banks' History of Martha's Vineyard.
            
            The Sons of the American Revolution made a gift to the library of the book, Henry Adams
                        of Braintree, 
                            Massachusetts
                        
               , a genealogy which, it is said, should be in every reputable library. It has
                    also placed on deposit the lineage books of its members and other records.
            The Society of Mayflower Descendants, which has its library collection on deposit in the Genealogy
                    Section, has added two memorial volumes on the Alford and Alvord families, and also the genealogical
                    history of Edgar Hanks Evans.
            The Indiana Historical Society has been the largest contributor as to the number of records placed in
                    the Genealogy Section. Its Committee of Pioneer Cemeteries and 
                    Churches works in nearly every county in the state. Their reports are given according to calendar
                    year. In 1941 two hundred and nine cemeteries in twenty-three counties were reported on. In 1942
                    there were compilations from two hundred and fifty-five cemeteries in twenty-four counties. Itemized
                    lists appeared in the Indiana History Bulletin of March, 1942, and March, 1943.
            MISCELLANEOUS MATERIAL
            Two additional census volumes should receive attention. One, The First Census of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               , was compiled from a list of taxpayers by Charles B. Heinemann in 1940. This
                    takes the place, so far as possible, of the 1790 census of 
                        Kentucky
                     which was destroyed during the storming of the capital in the War of 1812. The second,
                        
                  
                            Virginia
                         Tax-Payers, 1782–1787, Other than those published by the U.S. Census
                        Bureau, was compiled by Fothergill and Naugle in 1940. This supplements the volume of Heads of Families of 
                            Virginia
                         in 1790 already in the library. Two interesting volumes are Early
                        Census Making in 
                            Massachusetts
                        
               , by Josiah H. Benton, published in 1905, and First Census of
                        Hampshire County, West 
                            Virginia
                        
               , prepared in 1937 by the Federal Writers Project of that state.
            Revolutionary War material worthy of note includes the Index to the Official Register of
                        Officers and Men of 
                            New Jersey
                         in the Revolutionary War, compiled in 1941 by the Historical Records Survey of 
                        New Jersey
                    . It greatly facilitates the use of the volume which it indexes. Other volumes are: Loyalists of 
                            North Carolina
                         during the Revolution, by R. O. DeMond, 1940; 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Continentals, 1776–1783, by C. L. Ward, 1941; 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Loyalists, by H. B. Hancock, 1940.
            Some miscellaneous volumes and records are Browning's Americans of Royal
                        Descent, 1891; two volumes of Americans of Gentle Birth, compiled by
                    Pittman, 1903–1907; Wurts' Magna Charta, Romance and
                    Pedigrees, published in 1942; The Guide to Vital Statistical Records of Indiana, compiled by
                    the Indiana Historical Records Survey, 1941, a most valuable aid in furnishing information as to
                    what records are available in the various counties of Indiana; First Marriage Records of 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, 1816–1826, copied from an old record brought to light in the
                    furnace room of the  courthouse at Paoli, Indiana, in March,
                    1941; additional volumes of William W. Hinshaw's Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy and Frederick A. Virkus' Compendium of
                        American Genealogy; the Handbook of American Genealogy, 1943 edition, valuable in giving
                    information on genealogists interested in certain families and for its geographical register of
                    sources of information.
            The Genealogy Section has always stressed the value of indexes and guides and watches for and strives
                    to acquire any which might be practical and desirable. It does much indexing and analyzing of its
                    own. The Library has subscribed to the American Genealogical Index from its
                    beginning. Compiled under the direction of 
                        Fremont
                     Rider, Middle-town, 
                        Connecticut
                    , this came out first in card form and is now in consolidated index volumes. Its
                    indexing is by family name and covers important publications dealing with specified families. Volume
                    six has just been received and includes family names beginning with the letters Cl. A most valuable
                    bibliographical work is Passano's Index of Source Records of 
                            Maryland
                        , Genealogical, Biographical, Historical, published in 1940. The Library
                    subscribes to a duplicate copy of the April number of the American Genealogist, in
                    order that the pages containing Jacobus' Index to Genealogical
                    Periodicals (supplementary to his volume published in 1932) may be clipped and added with other
                    index numbers in a temporary binder. The Genealogy Section also maintains a temporary index to
                    current periodicals. Colored illustrations of coats of arms in the Americana are
                    indexed, and references are made to these under family name in the Genealogy catalogue. The
                    Genealogy Section has almost completed the indexing of the 
                        United States
                     pension record for 1840, the volumes of the 1835 record were indexed some time ago.
            A patron of the library continues the indexing, by cards, of the scrapbooks containing the
                    genealogical clippings from the 
                        Hartford
                    
                    Times. The indexing of Indiana county histories, which was carried on for some
                    months in the Indiana Division of the library by the Works Progress Administration of Indiana, has
                    been discontinued. Counties were taken in alphabetical order and the last consolidated index volume
                    covers 
                        Jennings County
                    . Many of the family histories and county histories of other states in the Genealogy
                    room are being  analyzed, so far as time will permit, and
                    analytical cards filed in the Genealogy catalogue.
            The policy of the Genealogy Section has been to direct the use of the material in the Genealogy room.
                    In its correspondence, it attempts to answer definite requests, particularly those pertaining to
                    Indiana connections. An especial effort is made to furnish information which can be obtained only
                    from Indiana records in this library. Sources of information are suggested whenever expedient. The
                    Indiana Division which adjoins the Genealogy room is most co-operative as to its material and
                    service from its staff. The Daily Register in the Genealogy room shows that persons from
                    twenty-three states used the room during the last year. Between thirty and forty states were
                    represented in the correspondence. It should be remembered that the Genealogy Section is not merely
                    a place where one can search for connections in one's family. It is becoming more and more
                    a repository and a depository for valuable Indiana records and its prime purpose is to make them
                    available for use and to guard their preservation.
         
         
            
            OLD GOSHEN CHURCH AND CEMETERY
            Contributed By FREDERICK P. GRIFFIN
            By an act of the 1943 General Assembly, the Conservation Commission was authorized to receive,
                    accept, administer, and maintain the Old 
                        Goshen
                     Baptist Church and Cemetery in 
                        Harrison County
                     as a public memorial to the pioneer settlers of Indiana. Built of massive oak and
                    poplar logs, the church building is still in comparatively good condition after standing one hundred
                    and twenty years.
            It was in the first decade of the nineteenth century that Squire 
                        Boone
                    , brother of Daniel, crossed the Ohio River from his home in 
                        Kentucky
                     and established a new home some six miles north of the river in what is now 
                        Harrison County
                    . With him were his four sons, Moses, Isaiah, Enoch, and Jonathan, and five sons of his
                    cousin. Under the strong arms of these sturdy men, the wilderness soon began to take on the aspects
                    of a settled community. A mill was built for grinding the grain of the neighborhood. When 
                        Harrison County
                     was organized in 1808, Moses 
                        Boone
                     was appointed one of the judges.
            Religious services were, no doubt, held in the various homes of the neighborhood at first, but it was
                    not long before the building of a church was discussed. The building now to be preserved by the
                    state is thought to have been completed in 1813.1 It stands on State Highway 11,
                    about two and one-half miles north of Laconia. Moses 
                        Boone
                    , on whose land it was erected, deeded the land to the church trustees in 1821; he also
                    took a leading part in its construction. The Reverend David A. Leonard who died in 1819 and was
                    buried in the church cemetery may have been the first pastor.
            After being used by the Baptists for sixty or seventy years, the building was leased for brief
                    periods to Dunkard and United Brethren congregations. In the forties it served as a school house.
                    The benches, made of hewn logs and 
                  
                     1 Information about the church is difficult to find. The early church
                            records were destroyed by fire. County histories, deed records, and a newspaper article by
                            John M. Dannenfelser, Jr. (clipping in Corydon Public Library) were the principal sources
                            used. Mrs. Kate Douglass Funk, of Corydon and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , has been helpful in securing information.
               
                     without backs, are now in the Old Capitol in Corydon. Small
                    holes chipped in the west wall indicate the location of the shelf upon which the pupils did their
                    writing. The original floor was of wide rough boards placed on slab sills of beech. A balcony, built
                    about seven feet above the lower section, extended two-thirds of the way across the building from
                    north to south. The building was repaired in 1913, but little change was made in its outward
                    appearance.
            In the large cemetery adjoining the church, many of the early settlers of the neighborhood are
                    buried. Many graves are marked only by a rough slab with no name. All the inscriptions which were
                    legible were copied in 1940 by Samuel P. Hayes, of Corydon, and myself. The original inscriptions
                    have been shortened and abbreviations used to save space in printing.
            
               Joel Cotner, b. Jan. 13, 1809; d. June, 1890.
               Belinda, w. of Joel Cotner, Aug., 1811.
               John, s. of Henry and Mary E. Guest, b. Mar. 29, 1849; d. July 11, 1849.
               Margaret C., dau. of Henry and Mary E. Guest, b. Mar. 14, 1873; d. July, 1873.
               Magdalena, w. of A. M. Hunter; d. Aug. 24, 1854. Age 45 yrs.
               Catharine, dau. of Abner M. and M. M. Hunter; d. Apr. 14, 1853. Age 18 yrs. 5 mos. 7 days.
               Mary Ann, w. of Joel B. Rissler, b. 1829; d. 1850.
               Elender, w. of W. Gaither; d. Oct. 10, 1855. Age 61 yrs. 7 mos. 21 days.
               Rachel E., dau. of S. and M. E. Funk; d. Dec. 30, 1860. Age 2 yrs. 4 mos. 16 days.
               Luther J. Wade; d. Aug. 15, 1931. Age 46 yrs. 5 mos. 9 days.
               Anna Rebecca Jenkins; d. Mar. 12, 1938. Age 82 yrs. 11 mos. 24 days.
               Mary, w. of James Jenkins, b. Sept. 16, 1832; d. May 13, 1882.
               Calvin S., husband of L. Noon, b. Feb. 28, 1816; d. Aug. 14, 1885.
               Lanta, w. of C. S. Noon, b. Dec. 11, 1810; d. June 18, 1896.
               Solomon Harbaugh; d. Sept. 22, 1877. Age 75 yrs. 7 mos. 17 days.
               Margaret, w. of Solomon Harbaugh; d. Apr. 3, 1875. Age 73 yrs. 10 mos.
               Charles J. Harbaugh, s. of S. and M. Harbaugh; d. Oct. 21, 1837. Age 2 yrs. 1 mo. 29 days.
               Alma F. Harbaugh, b. Jan. 19, 1878; d. Mar. 10, 1878.
               Wm. H. Harbaugh, b. Nov. 14, 1832; d. Dec. 17, 1888.
               Annie M., w. of W. H. Harbaugh, b. Nov. 26, 1842; d. Feb. 11, 1907.
               Ada Luckett.
               Benjamin D. Luckett.
               Adam and Nancy Douglass.
               Benjamin D., s. of Joel and Kate Bartley, b. May 15, 1850; d. Aug. 12, 1850.
               Infant son of Joel and Kate Bartley, b. and d. Mar. 12, 1853.
               Helen E., dau. of Joel and Kate Bartley, b. Jan. 15, 1849; d. Feb. 24, 1850.
               
               Joel F. Bartley, b. Jan. 15, 1808; d. Sept. 27, 1883.
               Catherine Bartley, b. Mar. 10, 1824; d. Aug. 6, 1905.
               Sarah M. Douglass, b. May 13, 1822; d. Oct. 14, 1895.
               Narcecy Gulpernia Gaither, age 17 mos. save 9 days; d. Oct. 3, 1834.
               Nancy Emley Gaither, age 8 yrs. save 9 days; d. Sept. 14, 1834.
               Jane, w. of R. G. Bartley, b. Mar. 15, 1815; d. Nov. 4, 1857.
               Martha G. Groves, b. Dec. 22, 1840; d. Oct. 19, 1846.
               Mary T., dau. of J. F. and A. J. Newman, b. July 22, 1834; d. Dec. 11, 1850 [stone broken].
               Benjamin L., s. of J. F. and A. J. Newman, b. May 26, 1846; d. Feb. 5, 1848 [stone broken].
               Mary L., dau. of J. F. and A. J. Newman, b. Dec. 10, 1850; d. May 22, 1851 [stone broken].
               Susan C., w. of J. C. Lynn Esq. dec'd.; d. Jan. 18, 1852, age 27 yrs. 2 mos. 10 days.
               Benjamin F., s. of J. W. and H. A. Miller, b. Feb. 19, 1853; d. Mar. 1, 1853.
               Peter Miller who dept. this life 31st Dec. 1832 in 29th year of his age, a native of 
                            Washington
                         Co., Pa.
               Jacob Miller who dept. this life 9th Sept. 1840 in 37th year of his age, a native of 
                            Washington
                         Co., Pa.
               Peter Miller, Seigniour who dept. this life Oct. 10, 1842, age 67 yrs. 2 mos. 15 days. A
                        native of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
               Isiah Inman, s. of Isiah and Charlotte Inman; d. Nov. 10, 1835. Age 9 yrs. 3 mos. 7 days.
               Mary Ann Crosmon Inman, dau. of Isiah and Charlotte Inman; d. Oct. 20, 1832. Age 9 yrs. 10
                        mos. 6 days.
               Chas. Inman; d. Oct. 30, 1832. Age 47 yrs. 1 mo. 27 days.
               Our Baby, Claude Anderson; d. May 25, 1924.
               Aaron Howe; d. Aug. 16, 1839. Age 21 yrs. 10 mos. 21 days.
               Ann Pindell, w. of Jacob Pindell; d. July 5, 1838 in her 39th year.
               Isaac Cotner; d. Aug. 1, 1844. Age 16 yrs. 11 mos. 13 days.
               John Cotner [stone weathered away]. M. S. [nothing more on stone].
               Anthony Cotner.
               John C. Cotner; d. Sept. 23, 1848. Age 33 yrs. 3 mos. 27 days.
               Lucinda, w. of Peter Frakes and dau. of John and Mary Cotner; d. July 9, 1849. Age 36 yrs. 17
                        days.
               Mary H., infant dau. of Peter and Lucinda Frakes; d. July 14, 1849. Age 2 mos. 15 days.
               Maria Boon; d. May 8, 1834 [creek slab; almost illegible].
               Hannah Boon; d. Dec. 18, 1833. Age 64 yrs. [creek slab; almost illegible].
               Mel. [creek slab; almost illegible].
               Sarah, w. of Henry Lenau; d. May 10, 1887.
               Henry L. Lenau; d. Apr. 29, 1881. About 78 yrs.
               Martha M. Lenau; d. July 14, 1849. Age 2 yrs. [creek slab].
               S. L. [nothing more on stone].
               Catharine Houser.
               Sarah Cable; d. Mar. 16, 1832. Age 17 yrs. 10 mos.
               
               James R. Nantz, consort of Nancy Nantz; d. Feb. 18, 1849. Age 54 yrs. 1 mo. 13 days.
               Nancy, consort of James R. Nantz; d. Sept. 8, 1849. Age 46 yrs. 11 mos. 3 days.
               Venevia C., dau. of James R. and Nancy Nantz; d. Aug. 3, 1847. Age 17 yrs. 3 mos. 7 days.
               Altha Ann Nantz; d. Oct. 15, 1844. Age 1 mo. 3 days.
               Eunice Eliza, dau. of Chas. and Versalia C. Inman; d. Feb. 18, 1847. Age 6 mos. 6 days.
               Mary Angeline, dau. of Orville and Sarah C. Nantz; d. Feb. 22, 1850. Age 6 yrs. 7 mos.
               Wm. S. Nantz; d. June 9, 1842. Age 8 yrs. 4 mos. 19 days.
               Hannah, w. of Hugh McIntire; d. Aug. 29, 1845. Age 66 yrs.
               Lawson J., s. of Jeremiah and Sarah Woods; d. July 16, 1847. Age 34 yrs. 6 mos.
               Sarah Woods; d. Aug. 9, 1852 [stone broken].
               W. Thomas, Company G, 50th Indiana Infantry [government stone].
               Thomas M., s. of James Pell and Elizabeth, his wife, d. June 23, 1830. Age 21 yrs. 11 mos. 7
                        days.
               Jesse H., s. of Jas. and Elizabeth Pell; d. July 3, 1827. Age 8 yrs. 7 mos. 2 days.
               Wm. T., s. of Jas. and Elizabeth Pell; d. Oct. 7, 1822. Age 5 yrs. 10 mos.
               Ezekiel, s. of Jas. and Elizabeth Pell; d. Jan. 18, 1825. Age 2 yrs. 4 mos. 17 days.
               Timothy Pell; d. Sept. 3, 1824. Age 23 yrs.
               Margaret Pell, w. of Wm. Pell; d. Nov. 19, 1828. Age 58 yrs.
               Isaac Cable, d. Sept. 22, 1824. Age 39 yrs.
               Frederick Cotner—the faith doctor.
               Rev. David A. Leonard; d. July 22, 1819. Age 45 yrs. [two stones].
               Elizabeth, w. of John B. Keller; d. Oct. 16, 1824. Age 29 yrs. 4 mos. 3 days [large flat
                        stone].
               
                  
                            Hamilton
                        , s. of Geo. W. and Lucy 
                            Boone
                        ; d. June 9, 1841. Age 32 yrs.
               Geo. W. Boone; d. July 1, 1857. Age 74 yrs. 3 mos. 25 days.
               Lucy, w. of G. W. Boone; d. of cholera, Sept. 18, 1833. Age 54 yrs. Also their daughter,
                        Helen, w. of H. Luckett, died same day in her 27th year.
               
                  
                            Milton
                            Boone
                        ; d. Sept. 17, 1818. Age 7 yrs. Son of Geo. 
                            Boone
                        .
               Fielding, s. of E. B. and U. Boone, b. Sept. 11, 1838; d. June 13, 1862. Joined 50th Regiment,
                        Indiana Militia, Company C.
               Blanch, dau. of C. and M. C. May, b. Jan. 20, 1870; d. Mar. 27, 1872.
               Lavina B., w. of C. M. Dawson; d. May 14, 1874. Age 42 yrs.
               Hiram C., s. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. Oct. 29, 1820; d. July 12, 1849.
               Samuel, s. of Samuel 
                            Boone
                         of Fredericktown, Md., b. Mar. 9, 1778; d. Jan. 8, 1856.
               Elizabeth, dau. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, and w. of Dr. John D. Weaver, b. Dec. 14, 1812;
                        d. Dec. 31, 1857.
               Fielding M., s. of Samuel and Mary 
                            Boone
                        , b. Aug. 13, 1815; d. July 11, 1871.
               
               Upton 
                            Boone
                        , b. 1808; d. May 17, 1887.
               Elizabeth Howser, w. of Upton 
                            Boone
                        , b. Dec. 13, 1810; d. Oct. 9, 1890.
               Wm. S. May, s. of Conrad and Mary C. May, b. Feb. 27, 1868; d. Aug. 6, 1893.
               Conrad May; d. Sept. 7, 1902. Age about 60 yrs.
               Mary C., w. of Conrad May, b. Feb. 20, 1836; d. May 11, 1914.
               Mayme May, b. 1879; d. 1935.
               Horace 
                            Boone
                        , b. May 31, 1846; d. Jan. 30, 1915.
               Harriet E., w. of Horace 
                            Boone
                        , b. Dec. 26, 1845; d. Oct. 30, 1932.
               Mary M. Hoby, b. 1850; d. 1926.
               Craven 
                            Boone
                        , b. May 3, 1807; d. June 21, 1886.
               Sarah Newman, w. of Craven 
                            Boone
                        , b. Oct. 20, 1811; d. Oct. 8, 1877.
               Craven G. Boone, b. Apr. 23, 1873; d. Oct. 7, 1906.
               Hadie L., w. of Craven 
                            Boone
                        , b. Apr. 29, 1877; d. Mar. 19, 1922.
               Carrie M., w. of Wm. F. Rasure, b. 1890; d. 1933.
               Samuel 
                            Boone
                        , b. Aug. 6, 1843; d. July 4, 1925.
               Mary, w. of Samuel 
                            Boone
                        , b. Dec. 24, 1855; d. July 26, 1922.
               Upton, s. of Samuel and Mary 
                            Boone
                        , b. Mar. 21, 1881; d. Aug. 9, 1896.
               Ada B., w. of J. E. Byrum, b. Aug. 4, 1879; d. Nov. 12, 1897.
               Lavina 
                            Boone
                        , b. Nov. 10, 1809; d. Mar. 19, 1899.
               Mary 
                            Boone
                        ; d. June 26, 1929. Age 66 yrs. 7 mos. 2 days.
               Wm. Pennebaker, b. in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        ; d. in Indiana, 1822. Age 67 yrs.
               Mary, dau. of Wm. and Mary C. Pennebaker and w. of Samuel 
                            Boone
                        , b. May 8, 1790; d. June 24, 1844.
               Landsdale Homer, s. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. Sept. 4, 1828; d. Dec. 13, 1829.
               Mary Jane, dau. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. May 4, 1818; d. Sept. 1818.
               Julia Ann, dau. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. Apr. 8, 1822; d. Oct. 1823.
               Thomas Mitchel, s. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. 1831; d. 1832.
               Jane Ann, dau. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. Aug. 3, 1826; d. July 8, 1843.
               Helen, dau. of Samuel and Mary P. Boone, b. Apr. 2, 1824; d. July 9, 1849.
            
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Mrs. Nellie A. Robertson is an editor in the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            Donald F. Carmony is an assistant professor of the extension staff, now teaching in the military
                    program at Indiana University.
            Kenneth M. Stamp is an instructor in the History Department at the University of 
                        Maryland
                    .
            Christopher B. Coleman is director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            William W. Sweet is a professor of History of American Christianity at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    .
            T. Harry Williams is an assistant professor in the History Department at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University.
            Ralph Watson is business manager of Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            R. Carlyle Buley is an associate professor of history at Indiana University.
            Anna Poucher is librarian of the Genalogy Section at the Indiana State Library.
            Frederick P. Griffin is a teacher in the Corydon High School and a member of the Indiana Historical
                    Society's committee on pioneer churches and cemeteries.
         
      
   
