
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 59, Issue 1, pages 1-94. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:59+issue:1+year:1963&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editor's Note about the Articles on Lew Wallace
            This issue is principally devoted to three articles about Lew Wallace. His participation in the
                    battles of Fort Donelson and 
                        Shiloh
                     during the Civil War is discussed as well as his involvement with other Americans on
                    behalf of the Republic of 
                        Mexico
                     during the closing stages of the French Intervention. Although all three articles were
                    received for review during 1961-1962, they were independently prepared and submitted. They are
                    published in chronological order to reveal better the connection between Wallace's Civil
                    War and Mexican careers.
            Despite his fame as a novelist, Lew Wallace remains well, if not always favorably, known for his
                    military activities. Born at 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, in 1827, he was the son of David Wallace, the governor of Indiana from 1837
                    to 1840. Lew Wallace's early bent toward romanticism was stirred by his enthusiasm for
                    William H. Prescott's History of the Conquest of 
                            Mexico
                        
                (1843), as is noted in Robert Ryal Miller's article. During the
                    Mexican War (1846-1848), young Wallace served as a second lieutenant. Although he and his men
                    participated in no military action of significance, some of them were embittered by General Zachary
                    Taylor's criticism of their bravery and devotion. In 1856 Wallace organized the Montgomery
                    Guards, popularly known as the Zouaves, whom he dressed in a style reminiscent of French Algerian
                    troops.
            Wallace's romantic interest in war and in 
                        Mexico
                     thus antedated the Civil War. His interest had been whetted but not adequately tested
                    by experience during the forties and fifties. Such a test was provided by the war and by the French
                    Intervention in 
                        Mexico
                    .
         
         
         
            
               
                  HENRY AND DONELSON CAMPAIGN Situation at Noon, 15 Feb 1862
            
            
            Lew Wallace at Fort Donelson
            James A. Treichel*
            
            At Fort Donelson Lew Wallace finally found the battle he had been seeking since his fruitless year as
                    a young lieutenant of Indiana Volunteers in the Mexican War. Wallace was a romantic, and he had a
                    romantic's notions of what war was like; these were partly feudal, partly Napoleonic ideas
                    in which suffering and destruction faded into the background. But he was also a lawyer and a
                    politician, and prosaic political experience usually kept his high-flying imagination within
                    reasonable limits. In fact, it was, partly because of his political connections that Wallace got
                    another chance for glory when the Civil War began. Indiana's governor, Oliver P. Morton, a
                    colossus of midwestern Unionism, offered him the post of state adjutant general and with it charge
                    of recruiting Indiana's first volunteer troop quota of six regiments. Once this was
                    accomplished, Wallace resigned to take command of one of these regiments, the Eleventh Indiana
                        Zouaves.1
            
            About this time an obviously impressed lady, Catherine Merrill, gave this picture of the stalwart
                    young commander: 
                        LEWIS WALLACE is very American in appearance. His deep,
                            flashing, black eye, straight, shining, black hair, and erect figure, would be no 
                        * James A. Treichel is a graduate student at 
                                        Georgetown
                                     University, 
                                        Washington
                                    , D.C. This article is a revision of a paper prepared for a course given
                                    by Professor Frank L. Klement at Marquette University, 
                              Milwaukee, Wisconsin
                           .
                        
                           1 Irvinq McKee, "Ben-Hur"
                                        Wallace: The Life of General Lew Wallace (
                                        Berkeley
                                    . Calif., 1947). 11-36. Years after the Civil War, Wallace gave this
                                    description of the Gray Zouave uniform: "Our outfit was of the tamest gray
                                    twilled goods, not unlike home-made jeans—a visor can, French in pattern,
                                    its top of red cloth not larger than the palm of one's hand: a blue flannel
                                    shirt with open neck; a jacket Greekish in form, edged with narrow binding, the red
                                    scarcely noticeable; breeches baggy, but not petticoated: button gaiters connecting
                                    below the knees with the breeches, and strapped over the shoe. The effect was to
                                    magnify the men, thouqh in line two thousand yards off they looked like a smoky
                                    ribbon long-drawn out." [Lewis Wallace], Lew Wallace: An
                                        Autobiography (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    . 1906), I, 270; hereafter this work will be cited in this article as
                                    Wallace, Autobiography.
                        
                        The map on the opposite page is reproduced without color from U.S., Military
                                    Academy, West Point. Department of Art and Engineering, West Point
                                        Atlas of American Wars (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1959). I, map 28 with the permission of Frederic A. Praeger, Inc. The
                                    solid lines in this map indicate the location of troops at noon, February 15. 1862.
                                    The dotted lines show previous positions and earlier movements of these
                                troops.
                     
                             discredit to the haughtiest Aboriginal; and the boldness
                            and sharpness, vigor and delicacy of his features, the insatiable yet controlled mental
                            activity pervading the whole man, and still more the shade of sadness, tinged with scorn,
                            resting on his face, and seeming to indicate a sort of self-pity, perhaps because of the
                            contrast between the transitory nature of the goods of ambition or business, and the ardor
                            employed in their pursuit, decidedly stamp him of the Anglo-American race, which, as a late
                            English traveller says, "loses in the second generation all trace of European
                            parentage," certainly the quiet and apparent stolidity of the genuine
                                Englishman.2
                  
                    
            
            In May, 1861, at the head of the Eleventh Indiana Regiment, gallant Colonel Wallace resumed his quest
                    for La Gloire by going first to the Potomac (where the one small success he
                    achieved was enthusiastically applauded in the Northern press) and then westward to inactivity in
                    the opening moves of Grant's initial western campaign, including the battle at Belmont, 
                        Missouri
                    . Wallace had not yet experienced the test of a real battle. Even so, rewards were not
                    scarce for the politically prominent: in October, soon after his arrival in the West, Wallace was
                    promoted to brigadier general, a promotion he was reluctant to accept because he considered himself
                    unqualified for it. Fort Henry followed four months later, and on the eve of Fort Donelson Wallace
                    was becoming desperately anxious to prove himself. He wondered if his chance would ever come.3
            
            Fort Donelson and its companion town, 
                        Dover
                    , were located on the south bank of the southern curve of the 
                        Cumberland
                     River with 
                        Dover
                     less than a mile east of Donelson. The surrounding country, punctuated by creeks,
                    ravines, and rivulets, was flooded in February and covered with woods—hardly ideal
                    conditions for land movement. Because of the bulging streams, Donelson and 
                        Dover
                     were vulnerable to land attack on only two sides, the south and east. For this reason
                    the Confederate outer defenses, consisting of formidable earthworks protected by strong abatis, were
                    concentrated here. These outworks covered the south side of 
                        Dover
                    , ran in an irregular semicircle along the crests of ridges fifty to eighty feet high to
                    the west side of Donelson, and almost reached Hickman Creek on the north. In the center of this line
                    a mild salient pointed southwestward. 
                  
                     2 [Catherine Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the War
                                for the Union (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866-1869), [I], 27.
                  
                     3 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 36-41;
                            Wallace, Autobiography, I, 338-345.
               
                     Running south from 
                        Dover
                     was the road to Charlotte and 
                        Nashville
                    , and crossing this just east of the Rebel works protecting 
                        Dover
                     was the Wynn's Ferry road, which ran from east to west roughly parallel to the
                    Rebel lines. All in all, natural conditions made Fort Donelson a good place to defende.4
            
            But human conditions were not so favorable. There was nothing wrong with the sixteen thousand
                    Confederate soldiers holding the fort aside from their greenness, which at this time was not unique
                    for either side. There were some good men in command, too, like Colonel Nathan 
                        Bedford
                     Forrest and Brigadier Generals Simon B. Buckner and Bushrod R. Johnson. The trouble was
                    that the two top men, Brigadier Generals John B. Floyd, the commander in chief, and Gideon Pillow
                    were woefully short on military ability. This deficiency was to have important consequences.5
            
            On the morning of February 12, 1862, after several days of floody, impedient weather, tough,
                    cigar-chewing Brigadier General Ulysses S. Grant began his movement from Fort Henry by sending the
                    divisions of Brigadier Generals Charles F. Smith and John A. McClernand, containing about fifteen
                    thousand men and eight field batteries, along the soggy 
                        Dover
                     (or Telegraph) and Ridge roads to positions two miles from the Confederate outworks. By
                    two o'clock that afternoon, able old Smith, the West Pointer, and McClernand, the
                    politician, had covered the ten miles from Henry to their positions after they had brushed back some
                    of Forrest's cavalry. Smith's Second Division took the left of the Union crescent
                    around the Confederate field defenses, and McClernand loosely held the center and right. Lew
                    Wallace, the junior brigadier general, remained at Fort Heiman, across the Tennessee River from
                    Henry, in command of his brigade: the Eleventh and 
                  
                     4 U.S., Military Academy, West Point, Department of Art and
                            Engineering, West Point Atlas of American Wars (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1959), I, maps 26-28; U.S., War Department, The Official Atlas of
                                the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1958), plate XI; M. F. Force, From Fort Henry to Corinth,
                            Vol. II of Campaigns of the Civil War (13 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1881-1885), 33-36. A table of distances between various points in the Donelson-
                                Dover
                             area was kindly provided me by Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             Cooling III, the historian of the Fort Donelson National Military Park, in a
                            letter dated October 26, 1962. This table is hereafter cited as the Fort Donelson Table.
                  
                     5 U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. VII, 158-159, 256, 275, 386; hereafter this work will
                            be cited in this article as Official Records.
                  
               
                     Twenty-third Indiana and the Eighth Missouri regiments, Battery A
                    of the Illinois Artillery, and a company of cavalry. At 4:30 P.M., shortly before Grant himself left
                    for Donelson that day, five gunboats and twelve transports with eight regiments of infantry aboard
                    arrived at Fort Henry. Grant ordered Wallace to send these boats around to land below Donelson to
                    cooperate with Smith and McClernand.6
            
            Wallace's spirits sagged after Grant left. The fact that Grant had not given him a more
                    important role in the Donelson operation nettled him.7 He made something of a
                    nuisance of himself at army headquarters about the matter; at least that is the impression given in
                    a letter written to him by Captain William Hillyer of Grant's staff. Hillyer, in fact,
                    warned Wallace: "Let me beg of you as your friend that you keep quiet for a day or two-and
                    you will have a position that will suit you in every particular."8 Hillyer doubtless meant that Wallace would have command of the regiments on
                    the transports when they were put ashore. Nevertheless there would certainly be action over at
                    Donelson in the meantime, and Wallace was stuck at Heiman, twelve miles away from it. Opportunity
                    seemed about to pass him by again.9
            
            But finally at midnight, February 13, there arrived the desired message from Grant, ordering Wallace
                    to leave garrisons at Henry and Heiman and bring the rest of his brigade overland to Donelson.
                    Wasting no time he immediately ordered the commander of the Eleventh Indiana, Colonel George F.
                    McGinnis, to ferry his regiment across the Tennessee river to join Colonel Morgan L.
                    Smith's Eighth 
                        Missouri
                    . With these regiments he set off for Donelson. He had decided to leave the Twenty-third
                    Regiment and the 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 159, 162, 170-171, 383-384; U.S., War Department, Official Atlas, plate XI; Battles and Leaders of the Civil War,
                            ed. by Robert Underwood Johnson and Clarence Clough Buel (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1884-1888), I, 408-409; Wallace, Autobiography, I, 347;
                            Marvin B. Butler, My Story of the Civil War and the Underground Railroad (
                                Huntington
                            , Ind., 1914), 94; John H. Rerick, The Forty-fourth Indiana
                                Volunteer Infantry: History of its Services in the War of the Rebellion and a Personal
                                Record of Its Members (
                                Lagrange
                            , Ind., 1880), 35.
                  
                     7 Wallace to his wife, February 11, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection
                            (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Wallace, Autobiography, I, 382-383.
                  
                     8 William Hillyer to Wallace, February 11, 1862, Lew Wallace
                            Collection. (The italics were in the original letter.)
                  
                     9 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 382-383.
               
                     cavalry behind. The men of Battery A had difficulty getting their
                    guns aboard the steamers which were used to transport Wallace's troops over the river. By
                    the time the gunners had their pieces and caissons ready to move inland, Wallace and the infantry
                    were several hours ahead. A part of the Thirty-second Illinois Regiment, Company A, commanded by
                    Captain Henry Davidson, had arrived recently by boat, and Battery A picked this up as an escort and
                    started to march eastward. These two small units reached Grant's headquarters at dusk
                    February 14.10
            
            Around eleven o'clock that morning Wallace had reported with his infantry to
                    Grant's headquarters at Mrs. Crisp's place, a one-and-a-half-story log house
                    behind the center of Charles F. Smith's line. There Grant told him to return his Missouri
                    and Indiana boys to General Smith, take command of the new Third Division, and keep Battery A as
                    division artillery. The Third Division had materialized when the flotilla finally arrived with its
                    cargo of troops.
            These boats had made good progress after they left Fort Henry until they entered the 
                        Cumberland
                     River at Smithland, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The heavy February rains had sent the 
                        Cumberland
                     boiling over its banks and the river swept up many objects in its path. The transports
                    were jammed to capacity with troops and equipment, and it was all they could do to make headway
                    against this rushing flood. Three more boats joined the original twelve near Smithland, and a total
                    of fifteen steamers struggled slowly up the river. It wasn't until the dark hours of early
                    morning, February 14, that they reached the landing site three miles below Fort Donelson. The boats
                    bunched closely together near the landing and in turn chugged up to disembark their passengers. Then
                    the men marched down the gangplanks, drew forty rounds of ammunition, and trudged off along the road
                    which led to 
                  
                     10 Wallace to his wife, February 13, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection;
                            Wallace, Autobiography, I, 383-384; Charles B. Kimbell, History of Battery "A," First Illinois Light Artillery
                            Volunteers (
                                Chicago
                            , 1899), 38. Captain Davidson's company appeared on the scene rather
                            mysteriously since none of the sources on the Battle of Fort Donelson record its arrival.
                            Wallace knew nothing of this company until it showed up in his battle line on February 16,
                            and as late as 1906 he still did not know how it had arrived there (Wallace, Autobiography, I, 407). The page in Kimbell's book cited in this note
                            contains the most information of the movements of Company A.
               
                     Mrs. Crisp's house, where Lew Wallace was waiting with
                    increasing impatience.11
            
            Wallace took command of his division when it arrived around 2:30 P.M. It consisted of eight regiments
                    organized into two brigades. The Seventeenth and Twenty-fifth Kentucky and the Thirty-first and
                    Forty-fourth Indiana regiments formed the First Brigade, which capable Colonel Charles Cruft
                    commanded. Wallace was lucky here: this brigade had served as a unit in Brigadier General Don Carlos
                    Buell's Army of the Ohio since December, 1861, and thus could almost be called a veteran
                    outfit. A second brigade (officially styled the Third Brigade for some reason) was a different
                    matter. Compared to Cruft's troops the regiments of the Third Brigade (the First 
                        Nebraska
                    , Fifty-eighth, Sixty-eighth, and Seventy-sixth 
                        Ohio
                    ) were alarmingly innocent of military training and experience. For many of the men in
                    the brigade the miles just covered from the boat landing constituted their first march in the field.
                    But these western boys possessed qualities which partly compensated for their military deficiencies.
                    Some of them were from frontier territories, and many were from relatively unsettled areas of
                    established states. Consequently they possessed physical toughness, boisterous enthusiasm, courage
                    and self-reliance, and—an important asset—extensive experience in the use of
                        firearms.12
            
            Wallace, of course, knew nothing of this as he prepared to start his command toward its position. The
                    position itself was unfamiliar, too, and Grant sent his assistant adjutant general, Captain John A.
                    Rawlins, with the Third Division to show the way. The going was rough. Previous troop movements had
                    churned the rain-soaked road into a river of mud, and, to add to the discomfort of the men, a heavy
                    wet snow began to fall. But the column pushed on through woods 
                  
                     11
                            
                                Butler
                            , My Story of the Civil War, 86-87, 94-96, 98-99; Charles
                            Whittlesey, War Memoranda: Cheat River to the 
                                    Tennessee
                                , 1861-1862 (
                        Cleveland,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1884), 28; Complete History of the 46th Illinois Veteran Volunteer Infantry (
                                Freeport
                            , Ill., 1866), 39.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Butler
                            , My Story of the Civil War, 99; Rerick, The
                                Forty-fourth Indiana, 22, 34; Johann Stuber, Mein Tagebuch
                                über die Erlebnisse im Revolutions-Kriege von 1861 bis 1865, ed. by Rosa
                            Stuber (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1896), 16; U.S., Adjutant General's
                            Office, Official Army Register of the Volunteer Force of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army for the Years 1861, '62, '63, '64,
                            '65 (8 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1865-1867), IV, 1268, 1279, V, 160, 171, VI, 78, 100, 292, 312, 314, VIII, 17;
                            William Swinton, The Twelve Decisive Battles of the War (
                                New York
                            , 1867), 69.
               
                     and occasional open spaces. The snowfall increased, coming in
                    thick sheets: to one Indiana soldier it was as heavy as anything he had seen at home. At last
                    Rawlins asked for a halt and showed Wallace where to place his men.
            Darkness was closing in as the young captain described the situation. The Third Division was in the
                    center position which McClernand had just vacated. The Confederate works, screened by dense woods,
                    were less than six hundred yards in front. There was no visible road to Smith on the left but only a
                    wall of trees and falling snow. Smith's right wing was about a quarter of a mile away, and
                    McClernand's left wing was more than a quarter of a mile distant. Rawlins' recital
                    did not particularly reassure Wallace, and as he ruefully watched his erstwhile guide ride off into
                    the gloom, Wallace reflected that his division was not solidly anchored in position but was one of
                    three isolated segments; and he had left his cavalry—his only possible link with Smith
                    and McClernand—back at Fort Henry.13
            
            While Wallace's new command marched to position, other events were shaping the character of
                    the siege. The first was McClernand's ill-advised assault of February 13 on the Confederate
                    rifle pits opposite the left of his center. The Rebels repulsed this attack with heavy loss to the
                    three attacking regiments. The next day, the conqueror of Fort Henry, Federal Flag Officer Andrew
                    Foote, commanding the flotilla, made an attempt to repeat his earlier triumph and run his gunboats
                    past the fort to prevent a Confederate escape on the east side. But the enemy water batteries mauled
                    these ships so badly that they had to retire north for repairs. And on the afternoon of the same day
                    McClernand inched his line farther around to the right to menace 
                        Dover
                     from the east and make room for Wallace's division. By nightfall of February
                    14, the Rebels had whipped the Yankees on two successive days, the gunboats were no longer a factor
                    in the siege, and McClernand's division was dangerously strung out along the right.14
            
            The night was uncomfortable in the extreme for Wallace's men. The march to the front line
                    had left them exhausted, hungry, and thoroughly drenched. Wallace's orders, probably 
                  
                     13 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 390-392; 
                                Butler
                            , My Story of the Civil War, 99; Rerick, The
                                Forty-fourth Indiana, 35; Stuber, Tagebuch, 16.
                  
                     14
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 172-174; U. S. Grant, Personal Memoirs of U. S. Grant (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885-1886), I, 302-303.
               
                     passed on from Grant, prohibited the building of fires because
                    of the proximity of the enemy lines. Thus no coffee was boiled, no bacon fried, and no clothing
                    dried. Even sleep was difficult, for the regimental tents were back at the landing, and the ground
                    was covered with snow and small puddles of water. Some of the men, too tired to care one way or
                    another, forced down raw bacon with hardtack or stumbled off to drop to the ground in a relatively
                    dry or sheltered spot and catch some sleep. Those that stayed awake talked little. Civil War
                    soldiers were as loquacious a lot as any, and camps and bivouacks were especially fertile grounds
                    for impromptu discussions. But there were none this night. Occasionally an erect figure covered by
                    an officer's hat and cape was seen through the darkness moving among the men. It was Lew
                    Wallace, trying to keep up their spirits and find out whether they could stand a fight if a battle
                    came in the morning.15
            
            Riding around his encampment to check the disposition of his troops, Wallace was in the saddle well
                    before dawn of what was to be a crisp, sunny day. He was the very picture of a general astride his
                    fine horse, John.16 Hearing the sound of firing from the right shortly after
                    dawn, he immediately roused his staff. From the direction and intensity of the firing they concluded
                    that, as one aide put it, "the Johnnies are out pitching into McClernand."17
            
            McClernand's stringy line had proved too tempting for even Floyd and Pillow who had been
                    casting about for a way out of their tight squeeze. Seven thousand Confederates, led by Pillow, had
                    smashed at McClernand's right end and, after a fierce two-hour fight, they began driving it
                    back towards his center. But, because Wallace had no cavalry and McClernand sent no information,
                    Wallace was ignorant of the battle for several hours. Then at nine o'clock Buckner attacked
                    McClernand's left with about three thousand men, a part of his division, and McClernand was
                    in serious trouble.18
            
            At 8:00 A.M. a message had arrived finally from McClernand informing Wallace of the Confederate
                    attack and asking for re-enforcements. Grant's orders had explicitly 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Butler
                            , My Story of the Civil War, 99-101; Stuber, Tagebuch, 16; John Thomas Smith, A History of the Thirty-first
                                Regiment of Indiana Volunteer Infantry in the War of the Rebellion
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1900), 12-13; Rerick, The
                                Forty-fourth Indiana, 35-36; Wallace, Autobiography, I, 395-396.
                  
                     16 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 43.
                  
                     17 Quoted in Wallace, Autobiography, I, 398.
                  
                     18
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 417; Official Records, Ser. I,
                            Vol. VII, 323, 337.
               
                     enjoined Wallace to hold his position and not to take
                    independent action, so Wallace sent the message on to Grant who, it turned out, had left Mrs.
                    Crisp's house to visit the wounded Foote on his gunboat. Half an hour later the
                    hard-pressed McClernand's second appeal arrived stating in substance that the enemy had
                    turned both of the First Division's flanks and that the whole division was in danger. This
                    was too much for Wallace. Word had come back from Grant's headquarters that the commander
                    in chief was absent and thus the decision was left squarely up to Wallace. Disregarding
                    Grant's orders, he immediately sent Cruft's seasoned brigade to McClernand. But on
                    his way to the right Cruft got tangled up in the countryside and finished his trip on the far right
                    of the Union position without reporting to McClernand. By the time Cruft put his brigade into
                    action, between nine and ten o'clock, McClernand's line had begun to disintegrate,
                    and the fragments were fleeing back toward Fort Henry.19
            
            Wallace, meanwhile, held his one remaining brigade under Thayer in position. A short time after the
                    last of Cruft's troops had disappeared into the woods, First Lieutenant Peter Wood brought
                    into Wallace's camp a section of the errant Battery A still accompanied by Captain
                    Davidson's company of the Thirty-second 
                        Illinois
                    . Then Captain Rawlins rode up, and Wallace gave him the news of McClernand's
                    disaster. The sounds of battle rang more harshly in their ears as Buckner and Pillow pressed their
                    advance.
            Shortly before ten o'clock the two Federal officers caught sight of the first tangible
                    evidence of the battle-stragglers. Filtering out of the dark forest to the right, they came first in
                    small, dark clouds against the snow; soldiers only minutes ago, they now lacked leadership and
                    needed only ammunition to be soldiers again. A roar rose from the woods to the right. An aide, sent
                    away to find the cause, returned and reported that the Wynn's Ferry road was jammed with
                    horsemen, 
                  
                     19
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 417-418. McClernand's official report on
                            the events of February 15, 1862 contains several remarkable statements. Among other things,
                            he wrote that Cruft's brigade was "generously brought forward by Colonel
                            Cruft upon his own responsibility, in the absence of General Wallace, ... in compliance with
                            my request." Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 175. But Cruft,
                            who should have known, and Wallace wrote in their reports that Wallace had given Cruft the
                            order to move. Though McClernand had asked for aid twice within half an hour, he wrote that
                            Cruft's brigade was put in reserve when it arrived and was not immediately
                            committed to action. Later McClernand contradicted himself by saying that he knew nothing
                            about the actions of Cruft's troops because Cruft did not officially report to him.
                            This later statement Cruft supported. Ibid., 175, 179, 237,
                        243-244.
               
                     men on foot, and wagons, and that the whole mass was moving
                    toward Wallace's command.20 As he rode by on a steaming horse, an
                    Illinois colonel shouted: "We are cut to pieces."21
            
            Confusion and discouragement mounted and threatened to engulf Wallace's men. Later he
                    admitted that, "when I saw McLernand's [sic] thousands come
                    driving back, I thought of Bull's run."22 Just then the
                    leading elements of the Twentieth Ohio Regiment appeared from the thick underbrush on the other,
                    left, side of the encampment. The Twentieth was bound for Colonel John McArthur's brigade
                    on McClernand's right flank, but Wallace took it and added it to Thayer's command.
                    He turned to see three more fresh regiments, the Forty-sixth, Fifty-seventh, and Fifty-eighth 
                        Illinois
                    , push their way through the milling fugitives who blocked the road from Mrs.
                    Crisp's. He ordered these regiments to join Thayer. Wallace now made up his mind. He told
                    Rawlins that he would move Thayer's oversized force to the right along Wynn's
                    Ferry road to meet the enemy advance. Rawlins then galloped off to headquarters with this
                        information.23
            
            Wallace, riding down the road ahead of Thayer's brigade, came upon elements of the brigades
                    of Colonels Oglesby, McArthur, and W. H. L. Wallace of the First Division retiring in good order and
                    demanding ammunition. "Colonel Wallace," he later wrote, "whose coolness
                    under the circumstances was astonishing, informed me that the enemy were following and would shortly
                    attack. The crisis was come. There was no time to await orders. My Third Brigade had to be thrust
                    between our retiring forces and the advancing foe."24
            
            The excited Lew Wallace moved his troops up the road and formed them into a line across it on the lip
                    of a tree-dotted gorge sometime between eleven o'clock and noon. He then ordered up
                    Wood's guns and sent word to General Smith to inform him of the situation and ask for
                    re-enforcements. Wallace's line consisted of the First 
                        Nebraska
                    , Fifty-eighth 
                        Illinois
                    , and Twentieth Ohio regiments on the right, and the 
                  
                     20
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 237; Kimbell, History of
                                Battery "A," 38; Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                            401.
                  
                     21
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 237. In his War
                            Memoranda (p. 35), Whittlesey, who had seen this demoralized officer, identified him
                            only as "an Illinois colonel."
                  
                     22 Wallace to his wife, February 19, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection.
                  
                     23 Whittlesey, War Memoranda, 34-35; Complete History of the 46th 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 39-40; William W. Cluett, History of the 57th Regiment,
                                Illinois Volunteer Infantry, from Muster in, Dec. 26, 1861, to Muster out, July 7,
                            1865 (
                                Princeton
                            , [Ill.], 1886), 7; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 237.
                  
                     24
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 237.
               
                     Fifty-eighth Ohio Regiment and Captain Davidson's
                    company on the left. Wood's section roared up, flipping over one of its own guns in its
                    haste, to take the center of the front line on the road itself. Some of the guns from the Illinois
                    Artillery's Battery B of McClernand's division with Captain Ezra Taylor in command
                    also joined the line. Lying on the ground some fifty yards behind the First Nebraska as a reserve
                    was the Seventy-sixth 
                        Ohio
                    . On Wynn's Ferry road to the rear were the Forty-sixth and Fifty-seventh
                    Illinois regiments, and on a road to the left was the Sixty-eighth 
                        Ohio
                    .25
            
            The Confederates were still driving ahead, now on Wynn's Ferry road, as they came into view
                    on the crest of the opposite rim of the gorge. Then three regiments of gray and butternut-clad
                    soldiers spread out into a line of attack and, supported by one battery of guns, advanced down the
                    slope towards Wallace's waiting line. Wallace's men opened fire, but the Rebels
                    held theirs until they could get close enough to make it effective. Twenty-five years later Wallace,
                    who remembered the ensuing scene vividly, wrote: "The Confederates struggled hard to
                    perfect their deployments. The woods rang with musketry and artillery. The brush on the slope of the
                    hill was mowed away with bullets. A great cloud rose and shut out the woods and the narrow valley
                        below."26 The opposing batteries started a thundering duel, and the
                    shells which began to fall among Wallace's men killed and wounded several. The gray
                    infantry now opened fire and delivered a number of punishing volleys, but their advance stopped.
                    Wood's guns began to concentrate on them and were firing double charges of canister at a
                    furious rate.
            About one hundred yards from the Federal position the gray line slowly melted away and receded across
                    the gorge 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 209-210, 238, 252; Whittlesey, War Memoranda,
                            34-35.
                  
                     26
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 421. The smoke that Wallace saw in the valley
                            seems to have seeped into the official reports of some of the participants. How big a battle
                            was there in that valley? Colonel Thayer and Lew Wallace stated very firmly that their men
                            repelled a Rebel attack, and Thayer wrote that his troops repulsed no less than three
                            attacks in the space of forty-five minutes. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol.
                            VII, 238, 252-253. Colonel W. H. L. Wallace wrote in his report that "the advance
                            of the enemy was checked and he was driven within his intrenchments . . . . Ibid., 196. Captain Taylor's description is substantially the same. But
                            Buckner and his regimental commanders, the Confederate leaders involved in the attack,
                            described a brief, disorganized charge which was defeated largely by its own
                            disorganization. The Confederates also claimed that Thayer and his men were forced to
                            retreat, a statement that is rather absurd since Thayer had superior numbers solidly placed.
                                Ibid., 210, 332, 344-345, 349-350, 353, 355-356. The account of this
                            fight given in the text is an attempt, taking into account the casualties Thayer's
                            brigade suffered, to reconcile all of these divergent views.
               
                     and up the hill. The Confederates were mostly raw troops, and
                    they had been marching and fighting since dawn. They needed time to regain some of the energy which
                    they had expended. Then, if they received the re-enforcements of men and guns they expected, they
                    would attack again. But a message arrived from Pillow ordering them back to their entrenchments. So
                    reluctantly they left, abandoning the field to the jubilant Yankees.27
            
            Wallace and his men had had a nice, straightforward little fight, in many ways an ideal introduction
                    to a battle of larger than regimental size. Fighting on the defensive with plenty of ammunition and
                    reserve troops close at hand, they blazed away steadily without flinching. Wood's gunners
                    had had an especially hot time. They had been firing canister and shrapnel (with fuses cut short for
                    point-blank effect) double-shotted just as fast as they could serve the guns. In the smoke and
                    uproar of the fight three charges were mistakenly rammed into one of the guns, and, according to the
                    battery historian, "the result of firing this triple charge was a graceful somersault by
                    most of the gun squad."28 It was also recorded that one of the men of
                    this crew was thereafter stone-deaf in one ear and hard-of-hearing in the other. Although divisional
                    losses in the engagement were small, there were men in every one of Wallace's units killed
                    or wounded. But, all in all, Wallace and his men must have felt proud when they saw the Confederates
                        retreat.29
            
            After the enemy had disappeared, Wallace rode over to the right to see how his First Brigade had
                    fared. Meanwhile, McClernand's troops procured ammunition from Wallace's supplies
                    and reformed behind his line. Wallace found Cruft in a good spot a hundred yards or so to the right
                    and rear, protecting the field hospital which had been set up in the Cherry house. Cruft had only to
                    advance a short distance and throw out skirmishers and he would be connected with the right of
                    Thayer's line. This Wallace ordered, and the Third Division was united once again. The time
                    was about one o'clock.30
            
            
               
                  27
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 169, 238, 245, 252-253, 332, 342-345,
                        348-350, 353, 356-356; Grant, Personal Memoirs, I, 306-307; Kimbell, History of Battery "A," 127; 
                            Butler
                        , My Story of the Civil War, 106.
               
                  28 Kimbell, History of Battery "A,"
                        127.
               
                  29
                        Ibid.; Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 169.
               
                  30
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 238, 245; Battles and
                        Leaders, I, 402; Whittlesey, War Memoranda, map on p. 28; U.S., Military
                        Academy, West Point Atlas, I, map 28; Fort Donelson Table.
            
            
            When the Confederates retired they gave up any chance they might have had to extricate themselves
                    from the growing web which Grant, with the arrival of more re-enforcements, was continuing to build
                    around them. By breaking off action, they relinquished the initiative and the momentum they had
                    accumulated in the morning. By retreating to their entrenchments, they also lost possession of the Charlotte-
                        Nashville
                     road by which they could have escaped.
            A short period of inert equilibrium followed before Grant finally arrived back on the scene to order
                    the resumption of action. When he got to Wynn's Ferry road around half-past two he found
                    Wallace and McClernand talking between their lines. He had already told C. F. Smith to attack on his
                    front, and now, after a brief look around, he calmly ordered McClernand to strike back and retake
                    the ground lost in the morning. Then he rode off. After Grant left, McClernand asked Wallace to make
                    the proposed attack, because most of McClernand's troops were not sufficiently recovered
                    from the morning's activities to take offensive action.
            Wallace thereupon organized an assault force of the following units: the Eighth Missouri and Eleventh
                    Indiana regiments, from his old brigade, brought over by Morgan Smith on C. F. Smith's
                    order; Cruft's brigade, moved up next to Morgan Smith's command; and, in reserve,
                    the Seventeenth and Forty-ninth Illinois regiments, from the First Division, led by Colonel Leonard
                    F. Ross, and the Twentieth Ohio led by Colonel Charles Whittlesey. The lead regiments were the
                    Eighth Missouri on the left and Colonel Hugh B. Reed's Forty-fourth Indiana, and the
                    objective was the enemy line of entrenchments to the right of the central salient. C. F. Smith was
                    already moving ahead as Wallace was preparing his forces.31
            
            In the following heroic prose, which he could not resist inserting in his official report, Wallace
                    described the beginning 
                  
                     31
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 421; Official Records, Ser. I,
                            Vol. VII, 238, 245; Force, From Fort Henry to Corinth, 56-57; Wallace to
                            his wife, February 19, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection; Rerick, The Forty-fourth
                                Indiana, 39, 273-274; Hugh B. Reed, "Personal Recollections," in
                                ibid., 224-225; "Fort Donelson National Military
                            Park" (
                                Washington
                            , 1962). That Grant was anything but calm inwardly is shown by a message which
                            he sent to Foote sometime before meeting Lew Wallace and McClernand. This message read in
                            part: "A terrible conflict ensued in my absence, which has demoralized a portion of
                            my command, and I think the enemy is much more so. If the gunboats do not show themselves,
                            it will reassure the enemy and still further demoralize our troops. I must order a charge to
                            save appearances." Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 618. It
                            was probably the only time during the Donelson campaign that Grant's confidence was
                            shaken. Yet he still had the courage to order an attack which led to a Union victory. This
                            act tells a good deal about the greatness of the man.
               
                     of the assault: "Well aware of the desperate character
                    of the enterprise, I informed the regiments of it as they moved on, and they answered with cheers
                    and cries of 'Forward!' 'Forward!' and I gave the
                        word."32 And forward they went, lying down when they saw the
                    flashes of Rebel volleys from the crest of the hill and then rising to charge on. Under the unerring
                    direction of Cruft, Reed, and Morgan Smith they reached the top of a ridge, drove the foe half a
                    mile into his works, and halted to catch their breath. They were only one hundred and fifty yards
                    from the Rebel rifle pits. During the fighting Colonel Joseph D. Webster from Grant's staff
                    arrived with an order to withdraw to the foot of the hill. Wallace disregarded this order as he did
                    a subsequent communication of the same nature. He did, however, postpone continuation of the assault
                    until the next day because darkness was descending. Meanwhile, General Smith's well-planned
                    and well-executed assault had been similarly successful.33
            
            The night of the fifteenth was little better than the previous one except that no snow fell. Fires
                    were again forbidden, and many of Wallace's men were without food for the second night.
                    There was apparently no exhilaration among them at the results of the day's events. The
                    constant movement along the moonlit roadways of troops, guns, supplies, and ambulances with their
                    melancholy burdens warned of another attack in the morning and of the price it would demand. Details
                    had been sent out to gather in the wounded, some of whom had been frozen to the places where they
                    fell. As dawn approached the word went among the men to prepare to advance; Wallace wanted to be
                    ready to push on as soon as it was light enough to do So?34
            
            But all of it—the tension, the preparation—was unnecessary. In the light of
                    early morning the Federals saw a white flag flying over the Confederate works. In the hasty absences
                    of his seniors, Floyd and Pillow, who had slipped away across the 
                        Cumberland
                     during the night, Buckner was surrendering Fort Donelson. Wallace, the first Union
                    general to meet the surrender party which Buckner sent out, was escorted into 
                        Dover
                     by Bushrod Johnson of the Confederates. Once there 
                  
                     32
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 238.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 238-239; Battles and Leaders, I, 424-425; Grant,
                                Personal Memoirs, I, 308; Rerick, The Forty-fourth
                                Indiana, 39.
                  
                     34
                            Complete History of the 46th 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 40; Cluett, History of the 57th 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 8-9; Whittlesey, War Memoranda, 36-37; Stuber, Tagebuch, 17-18; Reed, "Personal Recollections," in
                            Rerick, The Forty-fourth Indiana, 224.
               
                     he went to see his old friend Buckner, who was at a tavern
                    waiting to surrender formally. Wallace knew every officer in that taproom since he had met them all
                    at a Kentucky State Guard encampment before the war. Later Grant rode in at the head of the
                    Forty-fourth Indiana to put an official conclusion to the first great Union victory in the war.35
            
            The conquest of Fort Donelson was indeed a great victory for the North and for Grant. For Grant it
                    was, in fact, the first link in the chain of achievements that led to fame and promotion. Not only
                    had he cancelled off better than 12,000 men (about 2,000 killed or wounded and over 10,000 captured)
                    as a fighting force for the South, but he had also made the Confederate defensive system in
                    Tennessee untenable. And his own losses had been relatively slight—2,608 men (500 killed,
                    2,108 wounded). Lew Wallace's division itself had lost only 293 men (44 killed, 231
                    wounded, 18 missing).36
            
            Yet, from a professional standpoint, Grant's conduct was not all that it should have been
                    due to his carelessly confident attitude on every day of the Donelson campaign. This attitude,
                    however, produced important positive results without which victory could not have been achieved. On
                    the twelfth, at the first break in the weather, Grant hustled McClernand's and
                    Smith's troops over to besiege the fort although they weren't nearly enough to do
                    the job. This act, bottling the Rebels up early, made possible an early victory and the capture of a
                    large garrison. And on the afternoon of the fifteenth he ordered McClernand to attack despite a
                    morning disaster which would have given many pause and which had, in fact, shaken him considerably;
                    and thus he rendered victory certain. Knowing how deficient Floyd and Pillow were in 
                  
                     35 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 426-433; Wallace to
                            his wife, February 17, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection. Using all available water
                            transport—that is, the steamer, General
                            Anderson—Floyd took about 1,200 of his own Virginia troops out with him
                            across the 
                                Cumberland
                             River. Forrest took out five hundred men, mostly from his own command, by a
                            sunken road east of 
                                Dover
                            , a road which Confederate scouts had earlier reported impassable. In his report
                            Forrest stated positively that he hadn't seen a single Federal soldier on his way
                            out. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 275, 386. It is not mentioned in
                            the official records of the Donelson campaign, but it seems probable that, if the
                            Confederates had possessed enough boats, they could have evacuated the bulk of their forces
                            without a battle.
                  
                     36
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. VII, 159, 169, 275, 291, 386; Grant, Personal Memoirs, I, 314-315; Thomas L. Livermore, Numbers
                                and Losses in the Civil War in America, 1861-65 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1957), 78; Stanley F. Horn, The Army of 
                                    Tennessee
                                : A Military History (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 96-97; Force, From Fort Henry to Corinth, 63-64.
                            Estimates of the number of Confederate prisoners vary because an unknown number of Rebel
                            soldiers walked out unnoticed in the days immediately following the surrender of the
                        fort.
               
                     military ability, Grant made these decisive, winning moves
                    because he didn't believe he could play it in any other way.37
            
            But between these two actions he made errors which could have cost him victory and the chance to bag
                    the Confederate garrison at Donelson. First, there was no satisfactory reason why he could not have
                    ordered the re-enforcements on the boats to disembark at Fort Henry on February 12 and march
                    overland to Donelson instead of having them make the longer trip by water. Then these troops would
                    have arrived before Donelson at least a day earlier and might have been placed to strengthen the
                    weak Federal right wing. But worse than this, on February 15, when Floyd and Pillow woke up almost
                    long enough to make the whole Donelson venture a catastrophe, Grant was unable to hinder them. On
                    Foote's gunboat, he was absent from the battlefield during the whole time of the crisis,
                    and he had neglected to appoint a deputy to exercise over-all control while he was gone. Thus the
                    Federal reaction to the Rebel breakout missed the benefit of unified central direction and each
                    division commander was forced to fend for himself.
            Viewed in this way, Wallace's conduct on February 15, 1862, deserves more credit than it
                    generally has received. Acting only on his own authority and in disobedience to explicit orders, he
                    re-enforced McClernand and then made the stand that stopped the Rebel advance and preserved the
                    chance for victory. Captain Hillyer considered these actions decisive. He wrote Wallace on February
                    16: "I speak advisedly. God bless you—you did save the day on
                    the right."38 And, to top off a good day's work, Wallace had
                    ably organized and led the successful assault of the afternoon. For these services he did receive
                    official recognition. He thoughtfully sent a copy of his official report to Governor Morton and
                    early in March, shortly after Grant was given his second star, Wallace was also promoted to major
                    general along with C. F. Smith and McClernand.39 It seemed that his military
                    career was definitely prospering.
            Clearly in this test which his romantic spirit had so long demanded, Lew Wallace came out with
                    nothing but credit.
            
               
                  37 For further evidence of this attitude of Grant's, see John H.
                        Brinton, Personal Memoirs of John H. Brinton, Major and Surgeon U. S. V.,
                        1861-1865 (
                            New York
                        , 1914), 116-118, 128-129, 144-145.
               
                  38 William Hillyer to Wallace, February 16, 1862, Lew Wallace Collection.
                        (The italics were in the original letter.)
               
                  39 Roy Basler (en.), The Collected Works of Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            
                   (8 vols., 
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1953-1955), V, 142.
            
         
         
         
            Lew Wallace's March to 
                        Shiloh
                     Revisited
            Harold Lew Wallace*
            
            For two days in the springtime of 1862, near a church named 
                        Shiloh
                    , there occurred one of the most controversial campaigns of the Civil War. Fresh from
                    the capture of Fort Donelson—the most successful Union victory so far in the
                    West—the Union leaders were optimistically preparing another offensive against the
                    Confederates from a base at Pittsburg Landing on the Tennessee River. Major General Ulysses S.
                    Grant, in charge of the operation, planned to consolidate the Fort Donelson victory with a decisive
                    campaign to end the Confederate threat in the West. What he did not foresee was that the
                    Confederates, far from collapse, would seek to regain their losses.1 The
                    Confederates, too, were thinking in terms of offense. The result was 
                        Shiloh
                    , a surprise attack by Confederate troops and a near rout of the Union forces the first
                    day. This was an encounter which, after two days of fighting, saw the armies in nearly the same
                    position they had held before with each claiming victory.2
            
            Leaders on both sides were bitterly assailed for blunders made in the confusion of the first
                    day's fighting. The people of the North condemned Grant, Brigadier General William T.
                    Sherman, and Major General Lew Wallace for their actions at 
                        Shiloh
                    .3 Grant and Sherman were later to recoup their reputations.
                    Wallace, whose troops had been instrumental in the capture of Fort Donelson, was never to escape the
                    military discredit he had incurred at 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            In the confused movements before the battle, the Union plan had been to strike the Confederates at
                    the railroad junction 
                  * Harold Lew Wallace is a Lilly Fellow in American History at Indiana University and a
                            history teacher at 
                                Mooresville
                             High School, 
                                Mooresville
                            , Indiana. He is not related to General Lew Wallace. This article is a revision
                            of a paper prepared for a course given by Professor Oscar Osburn Winther at Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 J. G. Randall and David Donald, The Civil War and
                                Reconstruction (2d ed., 
                                Boston
                            , 1961), 204-205. As much as possible, the military ranks given are those of the
                            individuals at the time they are discussed in this article. This information has been
                            obtained from the official reports and from Mark Mayo Boatner III, The Civil
                                War Dictionary (
                                New York
                            , 1959).
                  
                     2 Randall and Donald, Civil War and Reconstruction,
                            205-206.
                  
                     3 Stanley F. Horn, The Army of 
                                    Tennessee
                                : A Military History (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 122.
               
                     of Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    , twenty-five miles from Pittsburg Landing.4 The armies of Grant and
                    Major General Don Carlos Buell were to merge at the region around Pittsburg Landing and from this
                    point move against the enemy. Grant and Major General Henry W. Halleck, the commander of the
                    Department of the West, had worked out the battle plan. As district commander, Grant would move his
                    army to Pittsburg Landing. At the same time he would arrange to bring Buell's forces from
                    Savannah, 
                        Tennessee
                    , where Buell soon would arrive with the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    . After the armies merged, Halleck would lead the attack upon the Confederates commanded
                    by General Albert 
                        Sidney
                     Johnston.5
            
            Everything at first looked all right. In March, 1862, the divisions of Grant's army took up
                    positions in the vicinity of Pittsburg Landing.6 Grant remained at Savannah
                    while awaiting the arrival of Buell. Buell had met delays, and on April 5 it seemed that the attack
                    might have to be made without him. Then, on that day, Brigadier General William Nelson arrived at
                    Savannah with an advance division of Buell's army. Grant learned that Buell would arrive
                    the next day.7 Nelson requested the transportation of his troops to Pittsburg
                    Landing. But Grant saw no need for haste; although intermittent skirmishing had taken place recently
                    around Pittsburg Landing, Grant told Nelson that "there will be no fight at Pittsburg
                    Landing; we will have to go to Corinth, where the rebels are fortified."8
            
            Unfortunately Grant saw unclearly. On the morning of April 6, Johnston with about forty thousand
                    troops struck at Pittsburg Landing, where the main concentration of Union forces was near the 
                        Shiloh
                     church three miles from the landing. Shouted Sherman, whose division received the first
                    blow: "My God, we are attacked."9 The Union plan, it
                    developed, had a major flaw—the Confederates had refused to remain at Corinth.
            
               
                  4 Kenneth P. Williams, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                             Finds a General (5 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1949-1959), III, 310.
               
                  5 Bruce Catton, U. S. Grant and the American Military
                            Tradition (
                            Boston
                        . 1954). 82.
               
                  6 Ulysses S. Grant, Personal Memoirs of U. S. Grant, ed.
                        by E. B. Long (
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , 1952), 169-170.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 172.
               
                  8 J. F. C. Fuller, The Generalship of Ulysses S. Grant
                        (2d ed., 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1958), 105.
               
                        9
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Some six miles away at Crump's Landing, Wallace, who was in command of the Third Division,
                    heard the heavy firing. He interpreted it as a general Confederate attack. He ordered the three
                    brigades of his division alerted and under arms. Then, anticipating that Grant would soon pass
                    upstream from Savannah, he went to the river bank to await orders.10
            
            Wallace had anticipated correctly. Grant also had heard the firing at Pittsburg Landing and, on the
                    boat Tigress, was moving toward the battle. At Crump's Landing, Grant
                    ordered the boat close enough to shore to speak with Wallace. Uncertain whether the attack was a
                    general one, he directed Wallace to remain in readiness.11 Grant moved on to
                    Pittsburg Landing. He later placed the hour of his arrival there at about 8:OO A.M.12
            
            While Grant was moving upstream, Wallace prepared to concentrate his three brigades, which were
                    scattered along the road leading from Crump's Landing toward Adamsville. He ordered the
                    First Brigade, at the landing, and the Third, at Adamsville, to close in on the Second at Stoney
                        Lonesome.13 Anticipating instructions from Grant, he ordered a horse saddled
                    at Crump's Landing for the expected messenger and then followed the First Brigade to Stoney
                    Lonesome. Here Grant's order reached him. The messenger was Captain A. S. Baxter, a
                    quartermaster on Grant's staff.14
            
            It was upon reaching Pittsburg Landing that Grant learned the attack was a general Confederate
                    offensive. The battle of Pittsburg Landing, or 
                        Shiloh
                    , was underway; consequently, the disposition of forces had to be changed. There was no
                    need for the Third Division to remain at Crump's 
                  
                     10 Horn, Army of 
                                    Tennessee
                                
                     , 131.
                  
                            11
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     12 Grant, Personal Memoirs, 173.
                  
                     13 "Some mystery attaches to the inaction of the Third
                            Brigade during the morning. General Wallace states in his report that it was concentrated on
                            the Second, meaning, as he explains to the editors, that the order for the concentration had
                            been sent, and, he presumed, obeyed. Colonel Ross delivered the order to Colonel Charles R.
                            Woods, then in command at Adamsville, and Captain Ware, Wallace's second aid
                            carried a repetition of it—both during the morning. . . . Yet Colonel Whittlesey,
                            who during the day, by seniority of commission, succeeded to the command of the brigade,
                            says in his report that three of the four regiments 'received orders to march with
                            their trains about 2 P.M., and to advance toward Pittsburg Landing in advance of the trains
                            at 4 P.M.'" Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, ed. by
                            Robert Under wood Johnson and Clarence Clough Buel (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1884-1888), I, 608.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 607.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            BATTLE OF SHILOH. APRIL 6, 1862: THE ROUTES OF NELSON AND WALLACE
                        
                  Reproduced from Kenneth P. Williams, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Finds a General (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            . 1949-1959). III, 380 with the permission of The Macmillan Company.
                  There has always been some controversy about the position from which Wallace began his
                            countermarch. The map which he included in his memorandum of March 14, 1863, to Major
                            General Henry W. Halleck and which is printed in U.S., War Department, The War
                                of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                                Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 177 and the one given in Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, ed. by Robert Underwood Johnson and Clarence
                            Clough Buel (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1884-1888), I, 608 differ significantly in topography from Williams'
                            map and from each other. But they agree in placing the point of countermarch farther to the
                            south than does the above map. According to the editors of Battles and
                            Leaders, Wallace had informed them that his "map is incorrect, and that its
                            inaccuracy arose from a prevalent confusion of the names of Snake and Owl creeks. That map,
                            however, faithfully represents General Wallace's claim that the head of his column
                            advanced to within a mile of what had been the right of the army" (I, 608). On the
                            other hand, Williams insists in 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Finds a General that Wallace "when he went over his route of
                            march with the battlefield historian in November, 1901, . . . had to concede that the point
                            at which he had turned around was four miles short of where, for forty years, he had
                            believed it was" (III, 392).
               
                     Landing. Indeed it was imperative that it join the main army
                    immediately, and Grant directed Captain Baxter to order Wallace to advance.15
                    Grant gave the order orally, but Baxter, a paper-minded quartermaster, made a copy of it while he
                    was going down the river to Crump's Landing.16 At Stoney Lonesome,
                    Baxter handed Wallace the unsigned order which, as Wallace later wrote, "directed me to
                    leave a detachment to guard the public property at Crump's Landing, then march my division
                    and form junction with the right of the army; after junction I was to form line of battle at a right
                    angle with the river."17 Wallace sent two regiments back to the landing
                    and at noon marched from Stoney Lonesome to join the right of the lines as they had existed at the
                    start of the attack.18 He was familiar with the road he was following.
                    Foreseeing that it might become necessary to join the main army, Wallace earlier had ordered his
                    cavalry, now guiding the march, to scout the road to the point where he expected to join the troops
                    of Brigadier General W. H. L. Wallace, a man, whom, although no relative, he knew better than
                    Sherman whose troops also were in the vicinity.19
            
            It was at this juncture that Wallace's arrangements began to be embarrassing to Grant. While
                    Wallace was marching from Stoney Lonesome, Grant was viewing the battle from the rear of the Union
                    lines. At noon, he realized the right of the Union army was falling back toward Pittsburg Landing.
                    Several hours had passed since his order to Wallace, and there was no word of Wallace's
                    contact with the main army. The situation was getting out of control. Grant sorely needed the Third
                    Division. With its help he might stop the Confederate advance and perhaps counterattack.
            About noon he sent Captain William R. Rowley to urge Wallace forward.20 Going via
                    the river road, Rowley went to Crump's Landing, and then proceeded, he later judged, five
                    or six miles before reaching the rear of Wallace's division. Rowley later wrote that he was
                    surprised and disturbed when he found the entire division resting. Moving to the 
                  
                     15 Grant, Personal Memoirs, 173.
                  
                     16 [Lewis Wallace], Lew Wallace: An Autobiography (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1906), I, 464; hereafter this work will be cited in this article as Wallace,
                                Autobiography.
                  
                  
                     17 U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 175; hereafter this work will be cited
                            in this article as Official Records.
                  
                  
                     18
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 607.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 609.
                  
                     20 Williams, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Finds a General, III, 369.
               
                     head of the column, Rowley found Wallace and gave him, along
                    with Grant's order, the first information that the Confederates had driven back the Union
                        forces.21 Wallace ordered a countermarch and by midafternoon his First
                    Brigade started to move toward the river road along a crossover road.22
            
            The division seemed incapable of getting to the front. About 3:30 P.M., Colonel John A. Rawlins and
                    Captain James B. McPherson of Grant's staff arrived at the division crossover.23 Their mission, like Rowley's, was to hasten Wallace's
                        advance.24 Approximately seven-and-a-half hours had passed since
                    Grant's first order to Wallace. The Third Division had been marching for three-and-a-half
                    hours and was still some distance from the main army. The march continued over the crossover toward
                    Snake Creek bridge.25
            
            Before reaching the bridge, Wallace received a report that it was in enemy control. The column
                    halted, and McPherson and Rawlins, with the cavalry, rode ahead to check. They returned an all-clear
                    report. Darkness was near when the Third Division began to cross Snake Creek. By 7:00 P.M., they
                    were finally in position, facing north, their left connecting with Sherman's right. It was
                    now eleven hours after Grant's first order. Seven hours had elapsed since the start of the
                    march from Stoney Lonesome. The first day's fighting had ended shortly before
                    Wallace's arrival.26
            
            The fat was thereby in the fire. On the basis of one day's confusion—the
                    confusion of a battlefield in flux—Wallace found his military career virtually at an end.
                    He never forgot this piece of misfortune caused by his failure to arrive in time for the first
                    day's fighting. In a letter to Grant, he later wrote: "The terrible reflections in
                    your indorsement on my official report of the battle, and elsewhere, go to the world wholly
                    unqualified. It is not possible to exaggerate the misfortune thus entailed upon me."27 This letter, written in 1884, twenty-two years after 
                        Shiloh
                    , was one of the hundreds Wallace wrote defending his behavior at 
                        Shiloh
                    . The persistency of these efforts at vindication which ended only with his death
                    reveals the passion with which he worked to remove the blemish of criticism.
            
               
                  21
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 179.
               
                  22
                        Battles and Leaders, I, 608.
               
                        23
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  24 Williams, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                             Finds a General, III, 372.
               
                  25
                        Battles and Leaders, I, 608.
               
                  26 Williams, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                             Finds a General, III, 379-381.
               
                  27
                        Battles and Leaders, I, 610.
            
            
            
               
                        Shiloh
                     ended a career that until then had been as promising as any in the Union army. At
                    thirty-four years of age, Wallace was the army's youngest major general. The rank then was
                    the army's highest.28 Wallace's original commission had come
                    by political appointment. Feeling that the West Point officers discriminated against political
                    appointees, he took pride in his demonstrated ability as a military strategist and effective
                    commander of troops. Perhaps he was a bit outspoken. There was a romantic side to Wallace's
                    nature—later revealed in his books but exhibited during the war in colorful battle
                    reports—which led him to view battles in terms of dash and glory. Nor was he hesitant
                    about criticizing his superiors in these reports.29
                    
                        Shiloh
                    , with its aftermath of criticism, ended all this. There were no formal charges against
                    Wallace. He did not lose his rank, Removed from active duty for a time, he eventually was reinstated
                    but was never again given a battlefield command. He served out the remainder of the war in lesser
                    assignments. As military commander of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , he fortified the city and saved it from possible sacking by Confederate troops.30 He later served as military commander in 
                        Maryland
                    , where by cleverly mixing military force and political astuteness he secured 
                        Baltimore
                    's votes for 
                        Lincoln
                    's re-election in 1864.31
            
            There was but one relief in the otherwise uneventful commands after 
                        Shiloh
                    . This was the Battle of Monocacy, an important engagement. On the probable theory that
                    Confederate forces were in no position to threaten 
                        Washington
                    , the defenses of the capital had been neglected. Then came the unexpected, for in July,
                    1864, Lieutenant General Jubal A. Early and his army marched into 
                        Maryland
                    .32 An attack of the capital seemed imminent. Wallace with his small
                    command moved out from 
                        Baltimore
                     to intercept Early's forces. Having had his command enlarged by piecemeal
                    reinforcement, he engaged the Confederate forces on the Monocacy River near Frederick, 
                        Maryland
                    . Forced to retreat, he moved slowly back in face of Early's advance. These
                    delaying tactics were successful: 
                        Washington
                     was decisively reinforced during the interval of retreat. Realizing that he had lost
                    the advantage of surprise and superior numbers, Early withdrew.33
            
            
               
                  28 Irving McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace: The
                            Life of General Lew Wallace (
                            Berkeley
                        , Calif., 1947), 46.
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 53.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 61.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., 68-70.
               
                  32 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 698-701.
               
                  33 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace,
                    72-73.
            
            
            In time Wallace received credit for his actions at Monocacy. Some measure of his earlier prestige was
                    restored. Before resigning from the army in November, 1865, he participated in two famous war
                    trials: the court-martial of those charged with conspiracy in the assassination of 
                        Lincoln
                     and the trial by special military commission of Capain Henry Wirz, the notorious keeper
                    of the Andersonville, 
                        Georgia
                    , prison.34
            
            The Battle of Monocacy notwithstanding, conspicuously lacking in all this activity was the thing
                    Wallace desired above all others—the chance to recapture the brilliancy of his early
                    career and the esteem he had once enjoyed. Frustration probably accounts for the fact that Wallace,
                    reviewing the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     years after, changed his mind on what might have happened had he been allowed to
                    complete his original march. For a while he believed his division would have been trapped behind
                    Confederate lines if he had continued.35 Years later, when he realized that only
                    a belated exoneration from Grant could clear his name, he began to speculate about what might have
                    happened had he been able to surprise the Confederates by coming up behind them.36
            
            Wallace's letter to Grant in 1884 shows how severe and lasting was the criticism of
                    Wallace's behavior at 
                        Shiloh
                    . But was it just? Grant's endorsement, referred to in this letter, was added
                    to Wallace's report of April 12,1862. After questioning the accuracy of the report on two
                    points and noting that he had tried to hurry Wallace to the scene of the battle, Grant had written:
                    "This report in some other particulars I do not fully indorse."37 Grant's statement was not especially harsh, but it raised doubts about
                    Wallace's conduct. Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton removed Wallace from command in the
                    summer of 1862.38 At first Wallace was unaware that he had been relieved.
                    Because of his part in the second day's fighting, he believed he had been a success at 
                        Shiloh
                    .39 It was almost a year after the battle before he learned of
                    Grant's damaging endorsement.40
            
            
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 76, 83.
               
                  35
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 176.
               
                  36 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 467-468.
               
                  37
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 174. Grant's endorsement,
                        dated April 25, 1862, stated that he had given Wallace an order at 8 A.M. on April 6, 1862, to
                        remain in readiness, a fact which Wallace had omitted in his official report. Grant also
                        insisted that the order brought to Wallace by Baxter would have arrived not later than 11 A.M.
                        on April 6.
               
                  38 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 590.
               
                  39 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 51.
               
                  40
                        Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, pp. 174-175, 188-189.
            
            
            Believing the report unfair, Wallace on March 14, 1863, defended himself in a letter to Halleck, the
                    commander of the Department of the West. First he stated that Halleck's office was
                    prejudiced against him because of his failure to participate in the first day's fighting at 
                        Shiloh
                    . Hoping it would suffice, he then gave a detailed explanation of his acts of April 6,
                    1862 "to vindicate my conduct from unjust aspersions."41
            
            Wallace's letter went to Grant for remarks. Rather than make a detailed report, Grant had
                    Rowley, Rawlins, and McPherson submit statements, but he did not request a report from Baxter, the
                    first messenger. The three men's statements proved damaging. Their reports charged or
                    implied that Wallace failed to follow Grant's first order, became lost in the course of his
                    march, and responded slowly to the emergency of 
                        Shiloh
                     despite their urging.42 Grant vouched for the accuracy of these
                    statements and later repeated parts of them in his memoirs.43
            
            Still, one wonders about this indictment. The first point to consider in reviewing the criticism of
                    Wallace is the original order. Grant later wrote that he had given the order "to march
                    immediately to Pittsburg [Landing], by the road nearest the river."44
                    If this was the order Wallace received, he failed to follow it. But Wallace claimed the order
                    "directed me to leave a detachment to guard the public property at Crump's
                    Landing, then march my division and form junction with the right of the army; after junction I was
                    to form line of battle at a right angle with the river."45
            
            There is reason to believe that Wallace's recollection of the order was nearer the truth
                    than that of Grant. The statements of Rowley, Rawlins, and McPherson gave three different
                    descriptions of the order. Although not intended to exonerate Wallace, their reports were more
                    consistent with Wallace's than with Grant's version. Grant mentioned nothing of
                    the directive to join the right of the army; yet all three of his aides wrote that Wallace received
                    orders to that effect.46 In addition Rawlins wrote that Wallace's
                    division was to "form in line at right angles with the river,"47 a point mentioned 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 176.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 178-188.
                  
                     43 Grant, Personal Memoirs, 173-174.
                  
                     44
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 468.
                  
                     45
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 175.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 179-185.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 185.
               
                     by Wallace but omitted from Grant's account. Rawlins
                    also corroborated Wallace's statement that orders had been received to leave a small
                    detachment to guard Crump's Landing before starting the march.48
            
            Wallace's actions after Baxter had handed him the order were certainly consistent with his
                    description of it. After sending the detachment to Crump's Landing, he moved out on a road
                    which would have taken him to the right of the battle line as it had existed in the morning. By all
                    accounts the order was not precise, but this would have been a reasonable interpretation.
            Confusion over the order was doubtlessly Grant's error. Wallace's adjutant general,
                    Captain Frederick Knefler, had misplaced the order delivered by Baxter.49 This
                    was unfortunate since it would have clarified the matter of content. But it would not have modified
                    the circumstances concerning delivery of the order to Wallace. Grant later recalled that the order
                    was oral but that he understood Baxter had written it down. He conceded that he had never seen
                    Baxter's memorandum.50
            
            In truth, it is not even certain that Grant saw Baxter. Rowley and Rawlins gave conflicting accounts
                    on this point. Rowley wrote that Grant had given the order directly to Baxter.51
                    Rawlins wrote that he had taken the oral order from Grant to Baxter.52 No doubt
                    Grant knew where he wanted Wallace's division to move, but the order—even
                    Grant's version of it—was not explicit. The oral order, moreover, especially if
                    twice relayed, invited misinterpretation. Grant later said he was not certain what order Wallace had
                        received.53
            
            Nor is there any reason to accept the verdict of Grant's aides that Wallace was lost.
                    Finding Wallace on a road taking him to a point away from the existing battle line, the aides
                    assumed him lost and wandering aimlessly. They supposed Wallace had missed the river road as he
                    marched from Crump's Landing. Wallace supposed the necessity for the change of direction
                    was due to a bad turn of battle after receipt of the original order.54 Thus, he
                    assumed the aides 
                  
                            48
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     49
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 607.
                  
                     50 Grant, Personal Memoirs, 183.
                  
                     51
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 179.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 185.
                  
                     53 Grant, Personal Memoirs, 183.
                  
                     54 Wallace, Autobiography, 466-467.
               
                     knew the reason for his position. The staff officers did not
                    request an explanation, nor did Wallace suspect there was reason to make one.55
            
            The charge of Rowley, Rawlins, and McPherson that the march was slow merits consideration. Rowley
                    emphasized that he had found Wallace's division at rest.56 Because he
                    knew the seriousness of the situation, this understandably struck him as indifference on
                    Wallace's part. That Wallace was unaware of the turn of battle before his arrival did not
                    occur to Rowley. Rowley and Rawlins later mentioned that Wallace, in turning toward Pittsburg
                    Landing, countermarched rather than reversed his division.57 Countermarch was
                    the slower maneuver, but it showed foresight. Wallace had begun his march in battle formation, with
                    proper displacement of cavalry, infantry, and artillery. By countermarching Wallace avoided the
                    probable confusion and delay that would have resulted in reassembling prior to moving into battle.
            All three of Grant's staff officers testified that Wallace, at the head of the division,
                    frequently dismounted, often sitting down to rest. This, as Rawlins in particular intimated, seemed
                    to prove the needless deliberation and indifference with which Wallace responded to the urgency of
                    the situation. Even so, such a conclusion seems inaccurate. Wallace's pauses, executed
                    according to Rawlins' account with "the utmost coolness and
                        indifference,"58 were not made out of indifference to nor ignorance
                    of the plight of the Union forces at Pittsburg Landing. The context of the three reports reveals
                    that Wallace paused periodically to allow the division to close ranks. Once he halted his division
                    while the cavalry checked a rumor that the Snake Creek bridge, over which his division would march,
                    was under Confederate control.59 To insure that his division would not straggle
                    into a pitched battle or become ambushed in territory recently held by Confederates was sound
                    strategy on Wallace's part.
            Grant's officers, moreover, were with Wallace for only part of the fifteen-mile,
                    six-and-a-half-hour march. A comparison of the speed of Wallace's march with that of
                    Nelson's leading brigade from Savannah to Pittsburg Landing indicated little difference.60 It is interesting that Nelson received 
                  
                     55
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 610.
                  
                     56
                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. X, pt. 1, p. 179.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 180, 187.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 188.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 187.
                  
                     60
                            Battles and Leaders, I, 609.
               
                     no criticism for lack of haste. Part of Wallace's march
                    was through swamp lands, too, a fact that the staff officers ignored in their statements.61
            
            Was Wallace a victim of circumstances at 
                        Shiloh
                    ? In a sense he was: Grant's error in the matter of the order was responsible
                    for much of the misunderstanding that formed the basis of the charges by his staff officers. But
                    Wallace, too, made a mistake at 
                        Shiloh
                    . Instead of remaining at Crump's Landing, he anticipated Grant's
                    order and moved to Stoney Lonesome without informing Grant. According to the situation at the
                    beginning of the battle, this move was sound. Stoney Lonesome marked a central point for the
                    concentration of Wallace's scattered brigades. And the road from there which his cavalry
                    had scouted led to the front. After receipt of Grant's order, if one can assume that the
                    order was as Wallace later described it, there was nothing to suggest that he had anticipated
                    wrongly. Thus, with Grant's error subtly reinforcing his own, Wallace began his unfortunate
                    march to 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            In conclusion, one must say that Wallace was not guilty of failure to follow orders. He was not lost
                    nor was he needlessly slow on the march. Ironically he was guilty of the one charge which was not
                    directed against him—he should have remained at Crump's Landing. Had he stayed
                    there he would have undoubtedly become involved in the first day's fighting.
                    Grant's order, no matter how ambiguous, apparently would have reached him sooner. Striking
                    is the fact that Grant's officers after leaving Pittsburg Landing started first to
                    Crump's Landing with their messages. Perhaps after Baxter's arrival Wallace would
                    have followed the route he ultimately took, but the staff officers sent to hasten him forward would
                    have reached him in time for his division to join in the battle that day. Had Wallace after
                    receiving Grant's order begun his march from Crump's Landing, it would have
                    paralleled the Union retreat and the sounds of firing. These sounds were hard to gauge from the
                    angle of his march out from Stoney Lonesome. Sounds of firing would have alerted him to the turn the
                    battle had taken. If the Union line had held that morning, the route Wallace took would have been
                    shorter than the one along the river road. But the line did not hold. Wallace anticipated wrongly.
                    On this point, then, the case inclines against him.
            
               
                  61 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 470-473.
            
         
         
         
            Lew Wallace and the French Intervention in 
                        Mexico
                    
            
            
                    Robert Ryal Miller
                    *
                
            That Lew Wallace of Indiana was at one time an officer in the Mexican army as well as a secret agent
                    for the Mexican government should be no surprise considering his varied and colorful life as
                    soldier, lawyer, politician, author, and diplomat. Wallace's fame rests on his two
                    best-selling novels, Ben-Hur and The Fair God, but he was also
                    once an Indiana state senator, a major general in the Union army during the Civil War, governor of
                    the Territory of New 
                        Mexico
                    , and 
                        United States
                     minister to 
                        Turkey
                    . His role in connection with the French Intervention in 
                        Mexico
                    , while not well known, is no less bizarre than other phases of his career.
            Wallace's sympathetic interest in 
                        Mexico
                     dated from 1843 when he was enthralled by William H. Prescott's History of the Conquest of 
                            Mexico
                        . Intermittently for the next thirty years Wallace worked on his first novel,
                        The Fair God, based on the clash of Spanish and Indian cultures in 
                        Mexico
                    . For years he studied Spanish and tried to read all the material he could find about 
                        Mexico
                    . He got his first look at the land of Montezuma in 1846 as a lieutenant in the First
                    Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, during the Mexican War.1
            
            In 1865, after the close of the Civil War, Wallace received a secret assignment and a major
                    general's commission in the Mexican army. In addition to his army salary, Wallace was
                    promised $100,000 for his services to the Mexican Republic.2 He spent
                    the next two years in 
                  New York, Washington, Texas
               , and 
                        Mexico
                     working for the Republic of 
                        Mexico
                     by giving legal, financial, and military counsel and recruiting volunteers for duty in 
                        Mexico
                    .
            
               * Robert Ryal Miller is assistant professor of history at New 
                            Mexico
                         State University, University Park, New 
                            Mexico
                        .
               
                  1 Irving McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace: The Life
                            of General Lew Wallace (
                            Berkeley
                        , Calif., 1947), 9-10, 13-17, 122-123.
               
                  2 Josè M. Carvajal to Wallace, April 26, 1865, Lew Wallace
                        Collection (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ); McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 95-96; [Lewis
                        Wallace], Lew Wallace: An Autobiography (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1906), II, 869. Hereafter the work by Wallace will be cited as Wallace, Autobiography.
               
            
            
            
               
                        Mexico
                     in the 1860's was torn by civil war and foreign invasion; this predicament
                    prompted representatives of that country to engage the services of General Wallace. Under pretext of
                    collecting defaulted debts, a French army intervened in 
                        Mexico
                     in 1861 and subsequently installed Maximilian as emperor of 
                        Mexico
                    . But the constitutional president of 
                        Mexico
                    , Benito Juàrez, opposed this aggression, set up a fugitive republican
                    government, appealed to the 
                        United States
                     for assistance, and fought a six-year war against the French and Maximilian's
                    Empire. Withdrawal of the French troops and the capture and execution of Maximilian in 1867 sounded
                    the death knell of the Empire. The victory of Juàrez was partially due to the arms, men,
                    and money secured in the 
                        United States
                     by agents such as Lew Wallace.
            Wallace's association with the Juàrez government began early in 1865 when both
                    the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Mexico
                     were convulsed by civil war. The two struggles were interrelated for there was
                    cooperation between the Confederacy and Mexican Imperialists while the Union supported
                    Juàrez and the Mexican Republicans. Through Wallace there was a further relationship; he
                    had a plan to bring the Confederate rebels back into the Union by permitting them to join an
                    American expedition to oust Maximilian and the French troops from 
                        Mexico
                    . He visualized a great crusade that would enforce the Monroe Doctrine and unite North
                    and South under one flag. Wallace thought that at least the Trans-Mississippi Department of the
                    Confederacy could be counted on to support such a move.3
            
            At the beginning of 1865 the end of the Civil War was in sight, but President 
                        Lincoln
                     and his cabinet were worried about affairs in Texas where Confederates, in touch with
                    Mexican Imperial troops, were utilizing Mexican ports to outflank the Union blockade. Northern
                    statesmen also feared that the Confederates in desperation might cross into 
                        Mexico
                    , take advantage of the disordered conditions there, and continue the war from across
                    the Rio Grande River. To pursue such a force might draw the 
                        United States
                     into entanglements with European powers and lay the Union open to charges of aggression
                    against a friendly neighbor.
            Major General Wallace urged an immediate expedition to 
                        Texas
                    , but the President and General Grant opposed Union 
                  
                     3 Wallace's notes, March 12, 1865, Lew Wallace
                        Collection.
               
                     intervention at that time. Then in a letter to Grant dated
                    January 14, 1865, Wallace asked to be allowed to try his peace plan on the Confederate commanders in 
                        Texas
                    . He added, "You know how to get me there—an order to make an
                    inspection of affairs on the Rio Grande will do so."4 Eight days later
                    Wallace was ordered to "proceed via the Rio Grande to Western 
                        Texas
                    , and inspect the conditions of military affairs in that vicinity and on the Rio
                        Grande."5 The assignment also anticipated a rendezvous with a
                    Mexican Republican general for planning concerted action to frustrate any alliance between the
                    Confederates and the Imperialists. Through the Mexican minister to the 
                        United States
                     Wallace received a letter of introduction to General Josè Marìa
                    Jesùs Carvajal, the governor of the northeastern Mexican state of Tamaulipas.
            Notification of Wallace's mission to the Rio Grande was not communicated to the American
                    secretary of state. "In an interview with President 
                        Lincoln
                     on the subject," Wallace recalled, "he admonished me not to mention
                    the business to Mr. Seward."6 The secretary of state was opposed to any
                    positive step which might give 
                        France
                     an excuse to recognize the Confederacy.
            Wallace proceeded by railroad and river steamer to 
                        New Orleans
                    . From that city he reported to Grant that Matamoros, 
                        Mexico
                    , was to all intents and purposes a Confederate port and that there were daily from
                    seventy-five to one hundred and fifty vessels discharging and receiving cargoes at Bagdad, on the
                    Mexican side near the mouth of the Rio Grande.7 A dispatch of the 
                        United States
                     military commander at 
                        New Orleans
                     gives more details on the smuggling: 
                        Casks and crates of crockery, freighted with rifles and musket barrels, bales of codfish,
                            with the small parts of those arms, kegs of powder in barrels of provision, pistols and
                            percussion caps in boxes of soap and barrels of fruit and clothing, shoes and other army
                            supplies with scarcely any attempt at concealment are constantly transferred to the
                            insurgents in 
                                Texas
                            .8
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  4 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 814.
               
                  5 Ulysses S. Grant to Wallace, January 22, 1865, Lew Wallace Collection.
               
                  6 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 843.
               
                  7 U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                            Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. XLVIII, pt. 1, 937-938.
               
                  8 Edward R. S. Canby to Henry W. Halleck, December 9, 1864, copy in Lew
                        Wallace Collection.
            
            
            After withdrawing $4,000 in Secret Service funds9 Wallace boarded a
                    military steamer, the Clifton, which was put at his disposal for the trip to the
                    mouth of the Rio Grande. Although the general's orders stated that he was to proceed via
                    the river to western 
                        Texas
                    , he found such a trip inadvisable since the left bank was controlled by the
                    Confederates and the right bank by the Mexican Imperialists. The Union forces held only Point
                    Isabel, 
                        Texas
                    , near the mouth of the Rio Grande.
            Wallace and his staff met with Confederate General James E. Slaughter and his aide, Colonel John S.
                    Ford, at Point Isabel in March, 1865. Negotiation for the exchange of prisoners was the ostensible
                    reason for this meeting of Union and Confederate officers, but proposals for the pacification of the
                    trans-Mississippi area were discussed along with plans for driving the French out of 
                        Mexico
                    .10 The Southern officers agreed to forward the propositions and
                    terms to their superior, General John G. Walker, then the Confederate military commander of 
                        Texas
                    .
            In his confidential report to General Grant, Wallace wrote that "both Slaughter and Ford . .
                    . entered heartily into the Mexican project. It is understood between us that the pacification of
                    Texas is the preliminary step to a crossing of the Rio Grande." He also noted that
                    "General Slaughter was of the opinion that the best way for officers in his situation to
                    get honorably back into the Union was to cross the river, conquer two or three states from the
                    French, and ultimately annex them, with all their inhabitants; to the 
                        United States
                    ."11
            
            But the Wallace peace plan was not accepted; moreover, Walker reprimanded Slaughter and reproved
                    Wallace for "seeking an obscure corner of the Confederacy to inaugurate 
                  
                     9 Signed quartermaster vouchers dated February-May, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     10 Wallace's proposition is outlined in his memo dated March
                            12, 1865, Lew Wallace Collection. Point Isabel is now called Port Isabel. Usually in this
                            article the military rank given is the one customarily assigned the person in popular usage
                            or the one mentioned in the letters and documents cited. Thus, except for Wallace, no
                            distinction is made between the different ranks of general. Brevet ranks, which were common
                            in the Union Army from 1863 on, are likewise ignored.
                  
                     11 Confidential report, Wallace to Ulysses S. Grant, March 14, 1865.
                            See also the official report of the same date, Lew Wallace Collection. Letters cited from
                            Wallace refer, unless otherwise indicated, to draft or retained
                        copies.
               
                     negotiations."12 Wallace later
                    asserted that Walker's refusal was due to the huge profits the Confederate general was
                    making in cotton by trading with the Galveston blockade runners.13
            
            The second phase of Wallace's mission to the Rio Grande involved contacting the Mexican
                    Republican forces to ascertain what they would do if Confederate troops crossed over into 
                        Mexico
                     in large numbers and joined Maximilian. If the Juaristas would oppose such an invasion,
                    they were to be promised material aid from the 
                        United States
                    . The nearest Republican officer was General Josè Marìa Carvajal,
                    and a courier was dispatched to locate him. "My messenger found the General in the fastness
                    of the mountains near San Carlos," Wallace wrote, "so reduced that for want of
                    better arms, he was actually practising his few followers with bows and arrows."14 General Carvajal slipped through the Imperial lines and came to the
                    Mexican-American frontier where he met with General Wallace. The Mexican general had lived in the 
                        United States
                     for some years; he spoke English fluently and was a graduate of Bethany College,
                    Bethany, 
                        Virginia
                     (now West 
                        Virginia
                    ). Wallace observed that Carvajal "was an American in tastes and
                        ideas."15
            
            In the course of the interview between Wallace and Carvajal the Mexican officer produced a document
                    from his government naming himself as a commissioner with extensive powers for one year. This
                    authorization from Juàrez, dated November 12, 1864, empowered Carvajal to purchase 40,000
                    rifles and other munitions abroad, to enlist up to 10,000 foreigners for service in the Mexican
                    military forces, and to contract for a foreign loan.16 Upon seeing General 
                  
                     12 John G. Walker to Wallace, March 25, 1865, Lew Wallace Collection.
                            Slaughter later joined the Imperialists in 
                                Mexico
                             and warned them of Wallace's plans. J. Fred Rippy, The 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Mexico
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 244.
                  
                     13 Wallace to Ulysses S. Grant, April 18, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     14 Wallace to American-Mexican Claims Commission, November 25, 1869,
                            Lew Wallace Collection. The original petition is in U.S., Department of State Records, 
                                United States
                            -Mexican Claims Commission of 1868, Record Group 76, Docket 425 (National
                            Archives, 
                                Washington
                            ).
                  
                     15 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 869.
                  
                     16 Carvajal's commission is printed in U.S., Congress, House,
                                House Executive Document 33, 40th Cong., 1st Sess., 112-113. See also 
                                Mexico
                            , Responsabilidades contraidas por el gobierno nacional de
                                Mèxico con los Estados-Unidos en virtud de los contratos celebrados por sus
                                agentes, 1864-1867 (
                                Mexico
                            : Imprenta del gobierno, 1867), 24.
               
                    
                    
                  GENERAL JOSÈ M. CARVAJAL
                  
                  Photograph by Brady's National Photographic Portrait Galleries,
                            courtesy Indiana State Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     Carvajal's commission and being assured that if the
                    Juàrez forces were in power they would stop every armed Confederate who attempted to
                    enter 
                        Mexico
                     from 
                        Texas
                    , Wallace persuaded the Mexican officer to accompany him to 
                        Washington
                    . The American agreed to pay for Carvajal's clothes and other expenses and
                    promised to help him in placing a loan and in negotiating the arms purchases. In Carvajal's
                    interest, Wallace noted: 
                        ... it was very desirable, for a time, at least, to conceal his departure; at the same time,
                            it was of absolute importance to me personally that the intrigue I was inaugurating should
                            be covered up as effectually as possible; so the General took the name of "Mr.
                            Joseph Smith," by which he continued to be known in 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                New York
                            .17
                  
                    
            
            By the time the two generals arrived at the American capital late in April, 1865, Lee had surrendered
                    to Grant, 
                        Lincoln
                     had been assassinated, and the American Civil War was rapidly drawing to a close.
                    General Wallace was detailed to serve on the court-martial board for the trial of those implicated
                    in the plot to assassinate 
                        Lincoln
                    , Grant, and Seward and was thus occupied for the next few months.
            Nevertheless, on April 26, 1865, Carvajal offered Wallace, upon his impending resignation from the 
                        United States
                     army, a commission as a major general in the Mexican army. Wallace was to be paid
                    $100,000, and his duties would be to put the Mexican general in touch with persons able
                    to help him financially, to assist him in procuring munitions, and to organize and lead a corps of
                    American volunteers who would serve under the flag of the Mexican Republic. According to Wallace
                    this agreement with Carvajal was sanctioned by Grant with whom Wallace conferred before accepting
                    the offer.18
            
            Wallace subsequently arranged a conference with Carvajal and introduced him to a fellow Hoosier,
                    General Herman Sturm. The three generals conferred on the plan to raise an auxiliary force of ten
                    thousand Americans, and Sturm, chief of ordnance for the state of Indiana, was commissioned by
                    Carvajal to produce the necessary military supplies and to provide for the transportation and care
                    of the foreign 
                  
                     17 Wallace to American-Mexican Claims Commission, November 25, 1869,
                            Lew Wallace Collection.
                  
                     18 Josè M. Carvajal to Wallace, April 26, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection; Wallace, Autobiography, II, 869; McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 95-96.
               
                     legionnaires until they reached 
                        Mexico
                    . The American volunteer corps, composed primarily of recently discharged veterans, was
                    to assemble somewhere on the Rio Grande. In order to circumvent neutrality laws these men were to be
                    organized as emigration societies.19
            
            Hoping to establish chapters "in every country town," Wallace organized the Mexican
                    Aid Society to raise funds and recruit soldiers for the contemplated expedition. He wrote to friends
                    asking their help in organizing branch clubs that would 
                        control public sentiment, govern the politicians, raise funds, recruit soldiers, and beget
                            cooperation and united intelligent management. Any number of veterans will wish to go to 
                                Mexico
                             as soon as they are somewhat wearied of the monotony of home. They will want to
                            know how to get there. These societies will show them the way and afford information
                                generally.20
                  
                    
            
            General Grant was conversant with the Wallace-Carvajal plans, but he had another candidate for leader
                    of the proposed volunteer force—his trusted subordinate, General John M. Schofield. Grant
                    mistrusted Wallace and feared that under him the enterprise would end discredited,21 but the Mexican minister, Matias Romero, urged that Wallace be left in charge until the
                    group crossed into 
                        Mexico
                     where Schofield might take command.22 Although Wallace had
                    requested command of the 
                        United States
                     army corps on the Rio Grande so that he could organize and direct the volunteers,
                    General Philip Sheridan was named to that post. Then in June, 1865, Wallace was again passed over
                    when Schofield was selected to command the projected army of Union and Confederate veterans in 
                        Mexico
                    . Schofield, who was granted a year's leave of absence and permitted to take
                    his staff with him, conferred 
                  
                     19 Herman Sturm, The Republic of 
                                    Mexico
                                 and Its American Creditors (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869), 2-4. Sturm's commission, dated May 1, 1865, obliged him to
                            resign from his Indiana state position. See the author's article, "Herman
                            Sturm: Hoosier Secret Agent for 
                                Mexico
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, LVIII (March, 1962),
                            1-15.
                  
                     20 Wallace to Thomas Buchanan Read, April 30, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     21 This distrust was largely the result of Wallace's failure
                            to participate in the first day's fighting at the Battle of 
                                Shiloh
                            . See Harold Lew Wallace, "General Lew Wallace's March to 
                                Shiloh
                             Revisited," pp. 19-30 of this issue.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Mexico
                            , Correspondencia de la legacyòn Mexicana en 
                                    Washington
                                 durante la intervenciòn extranjera, 1860-1868 (10 vols., 
                                Mexico
                            : Imprenta del gobierno, 1870-1892), V, 722; hereafter this work will be cited
                            as Correspondencia.
                  
               
                     with Grant, the Mexican minister, the American president, and
                    the secretaries of state and war before accepting the position.23
            
            The Mexican minister and Schofield signed a little-known contract which outlined the organization and
                    plans for the auxiliary army. Romero previously had received authorization from his government to
                    make such an agreement. The nine major points of the Romero-Schofield convention are worth
                    summarizing since they resemble the concessions promised to Wallace. Schofield agreed to accept a
                    commission as a major general in the Mexican army and to command the American volunteer forces; a
                    group of emigrant-soldiers consisting of three infantry divisions, one cavalry division, and nine
                    artillery batteries, was to be organized along the frontier; regulations of the 
                        United States
                     army would be followed in organizing the force; Schofield would name the officers of
                    the corps; the Mexican government would determine the pay and bonuses; upon their discharge the
                    volunteers would have the rights and privileges of Mexican citizens; the enlistment term was three
                    years; the president of 
                        Mexico
                     and the commander in chief of the corps could grant commissions; and financial support
                    of the group would come from a loan negotiated by the Mexican Republic in the 
                        United States
                    .24
            
            Meanwhile Grant was taking steps to aid the enlistment of men for the corps and to assure a supply of
                    arms for their use. He wrote Sheridan on July 25, 1865, and, noting that there were probably large
                    deposits of captured and surplus arms in 
                        Texas
                    , directed him to "place them convenient to be permitted to go into 
                        Mexico
                    , if they can be got into the hands of the defenders of the only government we recognize
                    in that country." Grant added that he expected Schofield to receive orders to appropriate
                    the munitions; Sheridan was to let him have them unless contrary orders were issued. Sheridan was
                    also advised that he was going to be directed to discharge all the men he thought could be spared
                    from the Department of Texas and reminded that "existing orders permit
                        discharged 
                     
                        23 John M. Schofield, Forty-Six Years in the
                                Army (
                                    New York
                                , 1897), 379-380.
                     
                        24 Romero's authorization, dated March 29, 1865, Corpespondencia, VI, 121-124. The Romero-Schofield contract is in
                                Fernando Iglesias Calderòn, Rectifacaciones
                                    històricas: La supuesta traiciones de Juàrez (
                                    Mexico
                                , 1907), 28.
                  
                         soldiers to retain their arms and accoutrements at low
                    rates, fixed in orders."25
            
            It was obvious that discharged veterans, fully equipped, were to form the core of the auxiliary army
                    unit destined to help Juàrez drive the French army from his country. The ranks could
                    easily be swelled by recruiting veterans in other parts of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The plan was well conceived and the organization under way when the American secretary of state
                    thwarted the project. Seward, who was constantly trying to avoid any possibility of war with 
                        France
                    , called Schofield for a conference and informed the general that he had been selected
                    to go to 
                        Paris
                     to try to convince Emperor Napoleon III that the French troops should be withdrawn from 
                        Mexico
                    . Seward came right to the point when he said: "I want you to get your legs
                    under Napoleon's mahogany, and tell him he must get out of 
                        Mexico
                    ."26 Schofield reflected that on the one hand he had
                    authority from the secretary of war to organize and lead an army to chase the French out of 
                        Mexico
                    , and on the other a request from the secretary of state to go to 
                        France
                     and try to accomplish the same end by peaceful means. He accepted the mission to 
                        France
                    , but he never did have a private interview with Napoleon.27 General
                    Schofield returned to 
                        Washington
                     almost a year later having accomplished one end Seward had in
                    mind—Schofield's absence from the United states.
            While all the negotiations were going on regarding Schofield's command in the Southwest and
                    his assignment to Europe, General Wallace continued to work in the interest of the Republic of 
                        Mexico
                    . Following his duty on the 
                        Lincoln
                     assassination court-martial board, he was appointed president of a military commission
                    to try Confederate Captain Henry Wirz, warden of the infamous Andersonville, 
                        Georgia
                    , prison. In August, 1865, Wallace informed Carvajal: "I am fully embarked in
                    your cause. This duty (the commission) will serve me excellently for a cover under which to
                        work."28
                    
                  
                     25 Ulysses S. Grant to Philip Sheridan, July 25, 1865, quoted in Adam
                            Badeau, Grant in Peace: From 
                                    Appomattox
                                 to Mount MeGregor, a Personal Memoir (
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., 1887), 181-182.
                  
                     26 Schofield, Forty-Six Years, 385. See also
                            Schofield's article, "The Withdrawal of the French from 
                                Mexico
                            : A Chapter of Secret History," Century Magazine, LIV
                            (May, 1897), 128-137.
                  
                     27 Schofield, Forty-Six Years, 383-393.
                  
                     28 Wallace to Josè M. Carvajal, August 25, 1865, Lew
                            Wallace Collection.
               
                     About the same time Wallace's wife wrote: "
                        Mexico
                     is uppermost in Lew's mind, at present—when he dies, 
                        Mexico
                     will be found written on his heart. Surely we have made graves enough there, without
                    marching an army against Maximilian."29
            
            But Wallace continued with his plans to enlist a corps of American veterans for service in 
                        Mexico
                    . He wrote to a number of his army-officer friends in various localities and asked them
                    to recruit soldier-emigrants for the projected expedition. In the first part of September, 1865, he
                    reported that he had men "all ready and was waiting only for the means."30
            
            Later, in a note to General John W. Geary asking him to organize men in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Wallace reported that arrangements had been made for nine other states. General James
                    P. Brownlow was in charge of 
                        Tennessee
                    , Colonel W. E. Woodruff of 
                        Kentucky
                    , General Thomas O. Osborn of 
                        Illinois
                    , Generals Robert S. Foster and John Coburn of Indiana, General Erastus B. Tyler of 
                        Ohio
                    , General Maxwell Z. Woodhull of 
                        Maine
                    , and Colonel Lionel A. Sheldon of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Confederate officers were also involved in the widespread scheme; Colonel John S.
                    Mosby was to forward emigrants from Virginia while Colonel John S. Ford, the officer Wallace had met
                    at Point Isabel, was to direct recruiting in 
                        Texas
                    .31
            
            One of Wallace's most active agents was a former Confederate officer, Colonel R. Clay
                    Crawford, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , who was not only eager to lead a brigade into 
                        Mexico
                     but was also willing to use some of his own money for the organization. On November 4,
                    1865, Crawford was sent to the Rio Grande with a set of orders from General Wallace. He was to get
                    in touch with Mexican Colonel Andreas Treviño (then in 
                  Brownsville, Texas
               ),
                    organize one thousand men, and encamp them on the river above 
                        Brownsville
                    . Some of the units already formed, such as Colonel Ford and his group, were to be
                    incorporated into the brigade. Crawford was instructed not to open negotiations with the Mexican
                    Republican leaders; nor was he to cross the river until the arrival of Wallace or 
                  
                     29 Susan Wallace to her mother, Mrs. Isaac C. Elston, [August, 1865],
                            Lew Wallace Collection.
                  
                     30 Wallace to his wife, September 4, 1865, Lew Wallace Collection.
                  
                     31 Wallace to John W. Geary, [September, 1865], Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  LOWER RIO GRANDE RIVER AREA
                  
                  This map was sketched by the author and redrawn by Armando Quintana, University
                            Park, New 
                                Mexico
                            .
               
                     General Carvajal. He was informed that arms, uniforms, and other
                    provisions would be forthcoming.32 Wallace wrote to General Grant informing him
                    of Crawford's mission and asking that some of the arms at 
                        New Orleans
                     be made available for the brigade.33
            
            When he arrived on the Rio Grande Crawford had difficulty enlisting recruits. There was a lack of
                    money to advance salaries and bonuses and to outfit the men. Wallace was not able to send the
                    promised supplies because the Mexican bond issue that he and Carvajal had been negotiating proved a
                    failure. But Crawford and his second in command, Colonel Arthur L. Reed, did gather a few followers,
                    some of them Negroes, and they prepared for an offensive. It was reported that Crawford was offering
                    $50 per month to all those who joined his corps.34
            
            In the first part of January, 1866, Crawford decided to move across the Rio Grande and capture the
                    town of Bagdad at the mouth of the great river. This action, of course, violated Wallace's
                    instructions as well as international law, but one of Crawford's motives was the liberation
                    of seventeen of his men who had been captured by the Mexican Imperialist commander at Bagdad. These
                    prisoners were under death sentence in accordance with the infamous "Black Flag"
                    decree of Emperor Maximilian which ordered the execution of all those caught fighting against the
                    Empire, The fact that these prisoners were in 
                        Mexico
                     would indicate that Crawford or his men had crossed the river on a previous sortie. In
                    any event, on the first of January, Crawford wrote to General Godfrey Weitzel, the ranking American
                    officer in 
                        Texas
                    , and asked him to intercede on behalf of the prisoners; Weitzel's request for
                    clemency, however, was not granted.35
            
            On January 5 at about four o'clock in the morning, Lieutenant Colonel Edmundo Davis,
                    commander of the 118th Colored Battalion, 
                        United States
                     Forces, crossed the Rio Grande at the head of about one hundred of his men and some
                    twenty or thirty soldiers of fortune including Crawford and Reed. The force surprised the Mexican
                    Imperial guard 
                  
                     32 Wallace to R. Clay Crawford, November 4, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     33 Wallace to Ulysses S. Grant, November 16, 1865, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     34 J. Passama Domenech, L'Empire Mexicain, la
                                paix, et les interets du monde (
                                Mexico
                            , 1866), 39.
                  
                     35 Emmanuel Domenech, Histoire de Mexique: Juarez et
                                Maximilian (3 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1868), III, 374.
               
                     of about two hundred men, took them prisoner, and began to sack
                    the town; wholesale looting then broke out. Seven witnesses later declared that Colonel Davis was
                    drunk at the time and that he returned to his base leaving the town in the hands of the adventurers
                    who had accompanied him and of others who arrived after the capitulation.36
            
            The following day Colonel Enrique A. Mejìa of the Mexican army, along with two hundred
                    volunteers, presumably Mexican Republican exiles, crossed the river and took over as military
                    commandant of Bagdad. He had to overcome, however, the strenuous opposition of Crawford and Reed who
                    momentarily made Mejìa and his officers prisoners.37 The French ship
                        Antonia appeared off Bagdad on January 6, 1866 and opened fire on
                    Crawford's men killing two of the Negroes.38 The land force lacked
                    artillery, but they returned fire on the vessel and evened the score by mortally wounding a French
                    corporal and an Austrian sergeant.39 At this juncture the American merchants of
                    the town sent strong protests to General Weitzel across the river; they feared a further loss of
                    real estate and merchandise through the looting and warfare. Because he could not control the
                    American adventurers, Colonel Mejìa also appealed to the American general for
                        assistance.40
            
            General Weitzel, observing the anarchy that followed the capture of Bagdad, decided to intervene with
                    federal troops. Colonel Hudson was dispatched to the city with 150 Negro troops and instructions to
                    restore order. This only served to complicate matters since Hudson's men promptly united
                    with Crawford.41 Weitzel then saw that he would have to move across the river in
                    strength and, on January 13, he went to Bagdad, promptly established military law, curbed the
                    excesses, and restored order. Crawford was arrested and sent to Fort 
                  Jackson, Louisiana
               , and his men were returned to the American side of the river.42
            
            
               
                  36 Enrique A. Mejìa to Mariano Escobedo, January 10, 1866,
                        Enrique Antonio Mejìa Papers, Part II, Box 1, Folio 98 (Bancroft Library, University
                        of 
                     California, Berkeley
                  ). Letters from Mejìa refer to draft copies.
               
                  37 Enrique A. Mejìa to Mariano Escobedo, January 9, 1866,
                        Mejìa Papers, Part II, Box 1, Folio 92.
               
                        38
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  39 Domenech, Histoire de Mexique, III, 375.
               
                  40 Enrique A. Mejìa to Godfrey Weitzel, January 13, 1866,
                        Mejìa Papers, Part II, Box 1, Folio 114.
               
                  41 Domenech, Histoire de Mexique, III, 376.
               
                  42
                        Ibid., 377.
            
            
            But the confusion in Bagdad continued because the Mexican Republican leaders and local politicians
                    fought each other. By January 17, Colonel Mejia was forced out as military commandant due to the
                    squabbles between Mexican generals and demagogues, one of whom wanted the adventurer Reed appointed
                    as commandant.43
            
            When elements of the French Gulf Fleet appeared in the harbor and protested the occupation of the
                    Mexican city by the 
                        United States
                     army, the Bagdad affair ended about as swiftly as it had begun. Weitzel, who most
                    certainly had orders to avert war with the French, withdrew his force to 
                        Brownsville
                    , and the Imperialist troops moved back into Bagdad on January 24, 1866.44 Thus ended the three-week interlude of nominal rule by the Mexican Republicans, both
                    aided and impeded by regular and irregular American troops.
            The raid on Bagdad irritated General Wallace and it delayed his Mexican plans. In a letter to
                    Carvajal about Crawford he understated the case: 
                        The newspaper reports satisfy me that he is not the man for delicate duty he was assigned to.
                            Yet we had no choice—he only had the money. If he should succeed, he will have
                            lost the advantages of a surprise. Let him go on, however. All eyes will be centered on him
                            there, leaving us comparatively free from espionage here.45
                  
                    Crawford was later released from custody, and he sent Wallace a full report of the Bagdad
                    melee along with a bill for $122,000 as compensation for his services. Wallace, who
                    refused to answer the report, was embarrassed and angry over the incident which he said was due to
                    Crawford's "stupidity, madness, and gross violation of instructions."
                    Nevertheless, he suggested to Carvajal that they take no action against Crawford "until we
                    are in your country, when you can act as justice dictates, free from danger of law suits, etc. . .
                        ."46
            
            Undaunted by the experience of Crawford's raiders and optimistic over the prospect of a
                    Mexican loan being guaranteed by the 
                        United States
                    , General Wallace continued to make 
                  
                     43 Enrique A. Mejìa to Matìas Romero, January
                            17, 1866, Mejìa Papers, Part II, Box 1, Folio 121.
                  
                     44 Adolfo Garza to Enrique A. Mejìa, January 25, 1866,
                            Mejìa Papers, Part II, Box 1, Folio 133.
                  
                     45 Wallace to Josè M. Carvajal, January 11, 1866, Lew
                            Wallace Collection.
                  
                     46 Wallace to Josè M. Carvajal, January 24, 1866, Lew
                            Wallace Collection. Carvajal's disapointment with Crawford is recorded in
                            Josè M. Carjaval to Matìas Romero, January 20, 1866, Matìas
                            Romero Correspondence (Bancroft Library, University of 
                        California, Berkeley
                     ).
               
                     plans for a large military expedition which he would lead into 
                        Mexico
                    . He renewed his contacts with the emigration societies and organized three brigades of
                    infantry in 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Tennessee
                    . The groups had a dichotomous designation; privately they were brigades, but publicly
                    they were known as the Order of Miamis, an Association of Emigrants. In the manner of a number of
                    clubs and fraternal groups there were code names for the various elements within the organization.
                    Armories were referred to as "wigwams"; companies, named after the counties, were
                    "tribes"; and the officers were "sachems,"
                    "chiefs," "braves," and "runners." Although
                    the Miamis had initiation fees and dues, Wallace had to advance much of the money for the
                        organization.47
            
            During the spring of 1866 the Wallace-Carvajal organization made plans for a new military offensive
                    on the Rio Grande. General Carvajal left 
                        New York
                     and went back to northeastern 
                        Mexico
                    . There had been numerous reports of factions and personal feuds among the Republican
                    leaders of that area; thus Romero and Grant urged Carvajal to return to his homeland and try to
                    reconcile the factions. Herman Sturm promised to send him military supplies and General Wallace
                    agreed to provide American auxiliary troops. Within a short time Carvajal consolidated his position
                    and became master of the border towns along the Rio Grande. On June 23, he reported he was in
                    control of Matamoros, the city that was to be the rendezvous for the Carvajal-Wallace-Sturm
                        expedition.48
            
            Back in 
                        New York
                    , General Sturm chartered the steamship J. W. Everman and loaded it
                    with enough supplies to equip seven thousand soldiers. Although the $30,000,000 in bonds
                    which Carvajal floated failed to sell to the public, Sturm was able to negotiate them for munitions.
                    He convinced the American arms manufacturers that the bonds represented a legitimate claim on the
                    Mexican government, and he ultimately purchased $2,000,000 worth of goods by offering the
                    bonds at sixty cents on the dollar as payment.49
            
            At the same time, Lew Wallace, who had been designated to conduct the arms shipment to 
                        Mexico
                    , notified the officers of the Order of Miamis about the projected campaign. In a 
                  
                     47 McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 103;
                            constitution and initiation ceremony of the Order of Miamis, notebooks, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     48 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 871, 873.
                  
                     49 Sturm's purchases are outlined in 
                                Mexico
                            , Contratos hechos en los Estados-Unidos por los comisionados del
                                gobierno de Mèxico durante los años de 1865 y 1866 (
                                Mexico
                            : Imprenta del gobierno, 1868), 500-501, 504-506.
               
                     letter to General Thomas Osborn, then in 
                        Chicago
                    , Wallace observed that he expected to have five thousand men on the way to 
                        Mexico
                     within the week. In a subsequent note, dated July 14, 1866, he ordered Osborn to start
                    moving his men. "DO not wait for arms ... send your men forward ... in squads of eight or
                        ten."50 Although the recruits were directed to go first to 
                        New Orleans
                     and then to Matamoros, only a few of the Miamis ever made it to 
                        Mexico
                    . True, all of the members wanted to help liberate 
                        Mexico
                     from the foreign invader, but only if their salary and the money to defray costs of
                    equipment and transportation were advanced. And neither Wallace, Osborn, nor any of the other
                    "sachems" provided that essential element.
            The Everman expedition sailed from 
                        New York
                     on July 26, 1866. The departure was highly publicized, and a 
                        United States
                     revenue cutter escorted the ship to open water. Sturm had received permission from a
                    fellow Hoosier, Secretary of the Treasury Hugh McCulloch, to ship the arms to the neighboring
                        republic.51 In addition to Wallace the passengers included some Mexican army
                    officers returning to their country as well as seven Americans who were a part of the
                    Wallace-Sturm-Carvajal coterie. Among the latter were: Colonel George E. Church, who represented the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald and carried in his pocket blank contracts for railroad and telegraph
                    concessions from 
                        Mexico
                    ; Wilbur F. Stocking, an agent for the firm negotiating Carvajal's bonds; and
                    Herman Sturm's brother, Captain Frederick C. Sturm.52
            
            Writing to his wife while aboard ship, Wallace was apprehensive. He noted that "the question
                    close upon us is: Can I succeed in landing in Matamoras [sic] the material—contraband with the French—now in our ship's
                        hold?"53 The answer was soon forthcoming, for after the cargo was
                    transferred to a river steamer and then unloaded on the Matamoros levee, a local revolt against
                    Carvajal occurred. In this tumult the munitions were pillaged, the Americans jailed, and Carvajal
                    escaped into Texas only by shooting the officer who tried to arrest him.54 Later
                    the new commander, Servando 
                  
                     50 Wallace to Thomas Osborn, July 12, 14, 1866, Lew Wallace
                            Collection.
                  
                     61
                            Herman Sturm versus the Republic of 
                                    Mexico
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1872), 25-26.
                  
                     52 U.S., Department of State Records, 
                                United States
                            -Mexican Claims Commission of 1868, Record Group 76, Dockets 673, 763 (National
                            Archives, 
                                Washington
                            ); McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace, 104.
                  
                     53 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 874.
                  
                     54 Wilbur Stocking to Herman Sturm, August 13, 1866, Herman Sturm versus 
                                    Mexico
                                
                     , 39-40.
               
                     Canales, released the Americans and permitted some of the
                    munitions to be transferred to the other side of the river for warehouse storage. The American
                    vice-consul at Matamoros, Louis Avery, told Wallace the revolt had originated among
                    Carvajal's subordinates and against the wishes of Canales. He reported that Carvajal was a
                    despotic ruler, giving too many concessions to Americans and underpaying his army.55
            
            Wallace, Church, and Stocking then determined to go to Monterrey, 
                        Mexico
                    , where they hoped Juàrez' commander in chief, General Mariano
                    Escobedo, would accept the arms and sign receipts for the merchandise. After a month of
                    preliminaries with Escobedo during which his agent agreed to take 1,000 rifles, 345 pistols, 6
                    artillery pieces, and other munitions,56 Wallace and Church decided to go on to
                    the city of Chihuahua where Juàrez and the central government were located. It was a
                    twenty-day journey in the carriage supplied by General Escobedo, and along the way they looked over
                    some of the silver mines of northern 
                        Mexico
                    .
            In Chihuahua, the temporary capital of the Mexican Republic, the Americans met with Juàrez
                    and his cabinet and submitted a written report on the Everman expedition. In the
                    months that followed, Church, a civil and military engineer, and Wallace, the soldier-lawyer, tried
                    to get mining, colonization, and telegraph concessions from the Republican government. The draft
                    propositions in the Wallace Papers indicate that a number of American capitalists were behind the
                    schemes. Cyrus W. Field, president of the Atlantic Telegraph Company, David Hoadley, president of
                    the 
                        Panama
                     Railroad Company, and General E. S. Sanford, vice-president of the Adams Express
                    Company, are but three of the names mentioned in the documents.57
                    Wallace's opinion of the Mexican officials was revealed in a letter to his wife: 
                        The attaches of this government here, from Juàrez down, are very polite and kind
                            to me. My opinion of the former grows better every day. Without doubt, he is really a great
                            man in the true sense of the words. I wish we had as good a one at the head of our
                            government. And as to his cabinet, I think I told you it was composed of abler men 
                        
                           55 McKee, "Ben-Hur"
                                    Wallace, 106.
                        
                           56
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    , Circulares y otras publicaciones hechas por la
                                        legaciòn Mexicana en 
                                            Washington
                                         durante la guerra de intervenciòn, 1862-1867 (2
                                    vols., 
                                        Mexico
                                    : Imprenta del gobierno, 1868), I, 475-476; hereafter this work will be
                                    cited as Circulares.
                        
                        
                           57 Draft proposals, Wallace to Benito Juàrez,
                                    October 22, 1866, Lew Wallace Collection. For the names of other Americans who
                                    arrived in Chihuahua at this time, see the author's article, "The
                                    American Legion of Honor in 
                                        Mexico
                                    ," Pacific Historical Review, XXX (August,
                                    1961), 229-241.
                     
                             than ours. I have seen a good deal of them lately, and
                            what I thought before, I am sure of now.58
                  
                    
            
            With the resurgence of the Republican forces and the concomitant collapse of Maximilian's
                    Empire, the Juàrez cabinet moved back toward central 
                        Mexico
                    . Wallace and Church accompanied the Juaristas on the 450-mile trek to Durango, but when
                    the officials moved farther south to Zacatecas, Wallace returned to the 
                        United States
                     and arrived in Indiana in February, 1867. He had been in 
                        Mexico
                     almost seven months, and, in addition to the fiasco of the Everman
                    expedition, his plans for concessions had been thwarted or at least delayed in the classical mañana manner. Colonel Church remained in 
                        Mexico
                     until May, reporting for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald and helping Jàrez' minister of war plan the closing
                    campaigns of the conflict.59
            
            Meanwhile, Wilbur Stocking returned to 
                  Brownsville,
                            Texas
               , where he turned over the
                    munitions to a local firm that arranged for their ultimate sale to Juarist commanders. The governor
                    of Coahuila and the commander of Tampico received the bulk of the arms, amounting to more than 3,000
                    rifles, 500 pistols, 250 sabers, 1,000,000 percussion caps, and 274,000 cartridges.60 Although the Everman expedition was in many ways a misfortune, it did
                    result in the delivery to the Mexican Republicans of a considerable quantity of first-rate arms and
                    ammunition.
            About the time of Maximilian's surrender in May, 1867, Lew Wallace resigned his commission u
                    an army officer and agent of the Mexican Republic. He spent parts of the next two years in 
                        Mexico
                     trying to get cash compensation or a business or mining concession in exchange for
                    Carvajal's written promise of $100,000; Carvajal himself was out of favor with
                    the Juàrez administration and in exile in the 
                        United States
                    . Wallace accepted $2,500 from Romero in 1868, but he maintained that this
                    was only a partial payment on account. He later filed a suit with the 
                        United States
                    -Mexican Claims Commission of 1868-1876, an international board that met in 
                        Washington
                     to settle outstanding claims of citizens of both nations. The commission in ruling
                    against Wallace's petition for $25,552.50 asserted that Carvajal had exceeded
                    his authority in engaging Wallace and added that the claimant 
                  
                     58 Wallace to his wife, October 5, 1866 [autograph letter signed], Lew
                            Wallace Collection.
                  
                     59 George Earl Church, Aborigines of South America,
                            ed. by Clements R. Markham (
                                London
                            , 1912), xv.
                  
                     60
                            Circulares, I, 476-476.
               
                     had performed no real service for 
                        Mexico
                    . Finally, in 1882, the Mexican government paid Wallace $15,000, a sum
                    considerably less than the amount promised by Carvajal but one accepted as payment in full by the
                    Hoosier general.61
            
            What did Lew Wallace accomplish as an agent of the Mexican Republic during the war known as the
                    French Intervention? By bringing to 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        New York
                     General Josè Carvajal, who had broad powers from his government, Wallace
                    served as a catalyst in the important financial and logistic negotiations that led to succor for the
                    Juàrez forces. As legal adviser, the Indiana general drew up several contracts for
                    Carvajal that enabled him to float a $30,000,000 bond issue in 
                        New York
                    . He also participated in the unsuccessful attempt to have the bonds guaranteed by the 
                        United States
                     government by introducing Carvajal and the plan to friends and politicians in 
                        Washington
                    . It was through Wallace that another Hoosier, General Herman Sturm, was employed by the
                    Mexican Republic as an expeditor of military supplies. Wallace later noted that in the closing
                    battles of the war in 
                        Mexico
                     two of the armies, "the most important, that of Diaz and that of Escobedo,
                    were in great part equipped by Sturm and I, under the Carvajal arrangement. . . ."62 Wallace conducted a shipload of munitions to 
                        Mexico
                     and through his friends in the 
                        United States
                     army arranged for some surplus American weapons to be turned over to Mexican officers.
                    Although he agreed to lead a large expeditionary force of Americans to 
                        Mexico
                     and drew up detailed plans for the logistic and military operations, this foreign
                    legion never assembled because of opposition by the American secretary of state and lack of
                    financial support. Wallace's recruiting activities, while abortive with respect to the
                    large expedition, resulted in a number of the volunteers crossing into 
                        Mexico
                     individually and in small groups. In the field of propaganda Wallace established
                    chapters of the Mexican Aid Society, which kept the issue of French violation of the Monroe Doctrine
                    before the American public and raised money for Juàrez. Perhaps most important of all,
                    Lew Wallace enthusiastically lent his name to the cause of the Mexican Republic and thereby gave
                    that government added popularity and respectability in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                  61 Wallace to American-Mexican Claims Commission, November 25, 1869, Lew
                        Wallace Collection; U.S., Congress, Senate, Claims on the Part of Citizens of the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Mexico
                             under the Convention of July 4, 1868 (Senate Executive Document 31), 44th
                        Cong., 2d Sess., 1877, pp. 38-39; McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace,
                        112-113.
               
                  62 Wallace, Autobiography, II, 872.
            
         
         
         
            Message of Pennsylvania and 
                        New Jersey
                     Quakers to Indians of the Old Northwest
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                    *
                    Contributed by Luther M. Feeger
                    **
                
            Intermittent conflict resulting in considerable loss of life occurred between Indians and whites for
                    possession of territory in the upper Ohio Valley and the Old Northwest from 1750 to 1814. At first
                    the Indians principally supported the French against the English and their colonists and then during
                    the American Revolution the tribesmen generally aided the English against the Americans. Although
                    the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     in 1783 gave the 
                        United States
                     title to the Old Northwest, the Indian problem remained critical until Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's defeat of the tribesmen at Fallen Timbers on August 20, 1794.
            The Indians, unfortunately, were not a party to the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     in 1783. Conflict between them and the Americans continued during and even after the
                    time when this treaty was negotiated and ratified, but such conflict ebbed in the
                    mid-1780's. Following the Revolution various tribes attempted to maintain the
                        Ohio River as the boundary between them and the advancing American
                    frontiersmen. Gradually, however, the 
                        United States
                     obtained cessions of land and frontiersmen began to settle in the eastern and southern
                    portions of present-day 
                        Ohio
                    . Because conflict flared anew in the late eighties and early nineties there were
                    several unsuccessful American campaigns against the Indians including those of General Josiah Harmar
                    (1790) and General Arthur St. Clair (1791). These ineffectual efforts stung and irritated the
                    Indians without defeating or severing them from their British ally, who still retained garrisons on
                    the American side of the Canadian border. These disastrous campaigns also gave the Indians increased
                    confidence in their ability to blunt the American advance, especially since they hoped for military
                    help from the British in the event of serious conflict.
            By early 1792 the 
                        United States
                     faced a major crisis in its relations with the Indians of the Old Northwest. Although
                        
                  * Donald F. Carmony is professor of history at Indiana University and editor of the
                            Indiana Magazine of History.
                  ** Luther M. Feeger is associate editor of the Palladium-Item, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana. By his research and writing he has made significant contributions to
                            state and local history.
               
                     an enlarged military effort against the Indians seemed
                    essential, the 
                        United States
                     had a very limited capacity to wage war. The government was faced, moreover, with
                    mounting opposition by farmers in western Pennsylvania to a new excise tax on whisky and troubled by
                    uncertainty whether a major effort against the Indians would result in conflict with the English.
                    During 1792 and 1793 the 
                        United States
                     attempted to negotiate a peaceful solution with the tribesmen, but at the same time
                    also prepared for a major military effort under General Anthony Wayne should force become
                        necessary.1
            
            In April of 1793—while peace or war hung in the balance—a meeting of
                    Pennsylvania and 
                        New Jersey
                     Quakers at 
                        Philadelphia
                     drafted an appeal to the Indians to preserve peace and come under the sway of
                    civilization and Christianity. Since 
                        Philadelphia
                     was then the federal capital, the Quakers who drafted this message were presumably well
                    informed about Anglo-Indian affairs in the Old Northwest. Quakers from 
                        Philadelphia
                     were involved in unsuccessful negotiations with the Indians of the Old Northwest during
                        1793,2 but it is not known whether the message from the 
                        Philadelphia
                     meeting was used in these negotiations.
            The 1793 
                        Quaker
                     appeal to the Indians, however, was used during the summer of 1795 in the negotiations
                    preceding the 
                        Greenville
                     Treaty of this year. Its use is indicated by a letter from Wayne and by the minutes of
                    the proceedings at 
                        Greenville
                    . Although 
                        Wayne
                    's letter states that the appeal "appeared to make a happy
                    impression" on the Indians, the minutes of the 
                        Greenville
                     negotiations indicate the message was not communicated to the assembled tribesmen until
                    near the end of the negotiations.3 By this time, the Indians had already been
                    defeated at Fallen Timbers, they had been deserted by their British ally, and the 
                        Greenville
                     Treaty had been largely concluded.
            
               
                  1 For a summary view of the Indian situation in the Old Northwest from the
                        end of the American Revolution through the 
                            Greenville
                         Treaty, see: Ray Allen Billington, Westward Expansion: A History of
                            the American Frontier (
                            New York
                        , 1960), 210-212, 220-227; Thomas D. Clark, Frontier America: The Story
                            of the Westward Movement (
                            New York
                        , 1959), 131-136, 142-144, 155-165; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 72-74, 77-82, 86-92.
               
                  2 One of these Quakers, who had also been named as a messenger by the 
                            Philadelphia
                         meeting, kept a journal of his expedition to 
                            Detroit
                         in connection with the Indian negotiations. Jacob Lindley, "Expedition to 
                            Detroit
                        . 1793." Michigan Historical Collections (40 vols.,
                        Lansing, Mich., 1877-1929), XVII, 565-666.
               
                  3 See pages 53-55 which follow for 
                            Wayne
                        's letter and a relevant extract from the minutes of the 
                            Greenville
                         Treaty negotiations. The extract is included in Footnote 4, p. 54.
            
            
            The first of the two documents which follows is 
                        Wayne
                    's letter of September 5, 1796, explaining his delay in acknowledging the 
                        Quaker
                     appeal and the accompanying presents. The second document is the 1793 appeal itself.
                    This 
                        Quaker
                     message is mainly important in indicating and illustrating the traditional friendship
                    and concern of the Quakers for the Indians in the colonial and early national era.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters1
                                 
                                    Detroit
                                 
                              
                           
                                    5th September 1796
                                
                        Respected Friends
                        Altho' at a late period—yet I fondly hope that it will not be
                                    displeasing, or altogether out of time, to acknowledge the receipt of your obliging
                                    letter of the 25th of the 5th Mo. 17952 enclosing "a
                                    copy of an address to the Indians in the year 1793 with something in addition, to
                                    the several tribes who attended the late Treaty at GreeneVille" accompanied
                                    by a small present of goods, committed to my charge for their uses.
                        It is however a duty which I owe to you, as well as to myself, to offer some apology
                                    & explanation for this seeming neglect?3—expecting to visit 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     in the course of last winter—& which I
                                    accordingly did early in February,—I purposely declined the
                                    acknowledgment of that letter with its enclosures—until I cou'd
                                    have an opportunity to deliver you the receipts for the goods in person,
                                    & to inform you Viva Voce of the mode & manner of their
                                    distribution;
                        Upon my arrival in that City—I discover'd that the necessary
                                    papers & vouchers were—thru' mistake or
                                    neglect—left at GreeneVille in the hands of Colo. Meigs, the Commissary
                                        
                              
                                 1 This letter written by Anthony Wayne is in the Wayne
                                            Papers in the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             and is published with the permission of that society. The 
                                                Quaker
                                             appeal appears in the Minutes of the Meeting for Sufferings, 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , April 18, 1793. A copy, certified as a true one by John
                                            Drinker, one of the appeal's signers, is in the Friends Historical
                                            Library of Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . This copy is published with the permission of the Friends
                                            Historical Library. In this transcription the original documents have been
                                            followed except for a few minor changes in punctuation and spacing. The
                                            repetition of quotation marks in the right margin within a quotation has
                                            been omitted and superior letters in abbreviations have been lowered.
                                            Flourishes at the ends of sentences have been interpreted as periods.
                                            Throughout, the original spelling and capitalization have been retained. In
                                            the few instances where it is not clear whether letters are capitals or not,
                                            the editor has been guided by the writing of the letter in other parts of
                                            the same document.
                              
                                 2 This letter has not been found.
                              
                                 3 Here, and in two other places which follow, a
                                            question mark appears to be the punctuation mark intended although its
                                            meaning is not clear.
                           
                                     General of Indian goods, & which I
                                    have but recently obtained from him, and now enclose for your information
                                    & satisfaction of your society; & which I trust will also
                                    demonstrate the early & particular attention paid to your requisition;
                        Your address to the Indians was prefaced by an Exordium4
                                    deliver'd in full Council to the several tribes—who afterwards
                                    participated of your bounty—& which appeared to make a happy
                                    impression Viz * * *["] Children,
                        "I have received a letter from your ancient friends &
                                    brothers—the people called Quakers—with a message to all the
                                    Nations here assembled—
                        "The Quakers are a people who merit the esteem of all peaceable, Virtuous
                                    & good men—I who know the purity of their
                                    minds—& the sincerity of their hearts—love
                                    & venerate their principles?—listen then to their
                                    voice—& let their words sink deep into your hearts,
                                    ["] (Here I deliver'd your address & caused it to be
                                    fully & clearly interpreted & explained as also the invoice of
                                    the goods intended for them) after an interesting pause—I thus proceeded:
                        ["] Children—
                        ["] The Present accompanying this address may probably appear
                                    small—but the motive which produced it—is of the last
                                    importance-it is presented with the benevolent view of promoting the peace and
                                    happiness of mankind;—hence it's value is great
                                    indeed;—they however wish it to be consider'd &
                                    received merely as a token of their regard—and as a testimony of their
                                    brotherly affection & kind remembrance 
                              
                                 4 An exordium is an introductory part of an oration or
                                            discourse. The quotation which follows in 
                                                Wayne
                                            's letter is the exordium he used to introduce the 
                                                Quaker
                                             appeal to the Indians. A different version of this exordium is
                                            contained in the minutes of the negotiations which resulted in the 
                                                Greenville
                                             Treaty, 1795. According to the entry for August 2, 1795, in the
                                                American State Papers, Indian Affairs (2 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1832-1834), I, 579: "The General arose and spoke
                                                as follows:
                                            YOUNGER BROTHERS:
                                            I have received a letter from your ancient friends and brothers, the
                                                people called Quakers, with a message to all the nations here assembled.
                                                The Quakers are a people whom I much love and esteem, for their goodness
                                                of heart, and sincere love of peace with all nations; listen then to
                                                their voice, and let it sink deep into your hearts.
                                            [Here the General read the address of the people called Quakers, and the
                                                invoice of their present.]
                                            Their present, you perceive, is small, but being designed with the
                                                benevolent view of promoting the peace and happiness of mankind, it
                                                becomes of important value. They wish it to be considered merely as a
                                                token of their regard for you, and a testimony of their brotherly
                                                affection and kind remembrance of you." The brackets in the
                                                preceding quotation are not the editor's since they appear in
                                                the excerpt quoted.
                              
                           
                                     of you"—a soft &
                                    gentle voice, & a smile of approbation pervaded all the Nations;
                                    & your present was received with gratitude?—the receipts will
                                    show you the several tribes that participated.
                        And it is with very sincere pleasure that I announce to you, the fairest prospect, of
                                    a lasting peace, & friendly intercourse between the citisens [sic] of the 
                                        United States
                                    , & those aborigines of America.
                        Under those impressions & with sentiments of true respect &
                                    esteem, I remain your very sincere friend
                        
                                    Ant[hon]y 
                                            Wayne
                                        
                           
                                
                        To John Parish, David Bacon, Nicholas Waln & Henry Drinker5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The Paper addressed to the Indians considered at the former Sitting being transcribed as directed,
                    was now signed by the Meeting, being as follows
            To the Indians living on the northwestern & western Borders of the united States, and all
                    others to whom this writing may come.
            Brothers
            Hearken to the Speech which your Friends called Quakers assembled in 
                        Philadelphia
                     from several parts of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     & new Jersey &c now send to you by their Brethren John Parrish,
                    Wm Savery, John Elliott, Jacob Lindley, Joseph Moore & Wm. Hartshorne.6
            
            Brothers
            When our Grandfathers came with Onas7 over the great Waters to settle in this
                    Land more than One hundred years 
                  
                     5 Presumably these men were Quakers. With the exception of Parish [or
                            Parrish], they are listed among the singers of the 1793 appeal.
                  
                     6 None of these men signed the appeal. Parrish, it is interesting to
                            note, was also one of the recipients of 
                                Wayne
                            's 1795 letter.
                  
                     7 Onas, an Indian word for pen, was also used as a name for all the
                            colonial governors of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . E. B. O'Callaghan (ed.), Documents Relative to the
                                Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (11 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1856-1861), V, 679, VII, 61, 296. In the 1793 
                                Quaker
                             appeal it presumably refers to William Penn, the founder of the colony of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
               
                     ago, they Kindled a large Council fire with your Grandfathers,
                    and sat together round it in much good Will & Friendship smooking [sic]
                    the Calumet Pipe together; and they told your Grandfathers that they were Men of Peace, &
                    desired to live among you in Peace & Love, and that their Children might also be careful
                    allways to live in the same Love one with another as Brothers of one Family.
            This Council fire was Kept burning with a clear Flame many years, which gave a good Light all around
                    the Country, and the Chain of Friendship which was made at the same time was Kept clean from Rust by
                    our Fathers & your Fathers untill about 40 years ago an evil Spirit whispered bad Stories
                    in the Ears of some of your People, and of some of the white People; so that the light of the
                    antient [sic] Council Fire was allmost put out, and the old Chain of Friendship
                    was made dull & rusty.8
            
            Brothers
            Our Grandfathers told your Grandfathers that the great & good Spirit who made them
                    & all People with a design that they might live on the Earth for a few years in Love
                    & good Will one towards another, had placed his good Law in the Hearts of all Men, and if
                    they carefully attended to it's inward Voice it would keep them in Love &
                    friendship, & teach them to shun & avoid every thing that would occasion them
                    to trouble & hurt one another.
            Brothers
            Do you not find that after you have been angry and quarrelsome & done any bad action, that
                    you are made uneasy & sorrowful; and that when you are sober & serious and do
                    good actions, that your Minds feel pleasant, easy & comfortable? it is the Law from the
                    good Spirit, who is all Love, and placed it in your Hearts, that gives you such Peace &
                    Comfort when you do well, but when you do evil things it reproves you & makes you feel
                    uneasy & sad.
            
               
                  8 In noting that the chain of friendship had begun to rust about forty
                        years earlier—around 1753—the Quakers were accurate in pointing out that
                        serious conflict had developed in Indian-white relations in the middle of the eighteenth
                        century, a fact noted in the Introduction to these documents.
            
            
            Brothers
            We wish you to consider & remember that the great Spirit sees & Knows all the
                    Thoughts of your Hearts, and the have loved, served and obeyed the holy Law of the good Spirit
                    placed in their Hearts, he will receive their Souls which are Hearts of all Mankind, and all their
                    actions; and when their Bodies dye [sic], such Men of all colours & all
                    Nations who never to die, and they will live with him in Joy & Peace forever; but the
                    Souls of bad Men who have lived wickedly in this World must live, after their Bodies die, with the
                    bad Spirit in a State of Distress & Misery.
            Brothers
            We make Profession of the same Principle with our Grandfathers, which teaches us to love you
                    & all Men, and in that Love we feel our Minds drawn to send you this Speech with a great
                    desire for your Good; and we were made glad when we heard that the sober good People among you were
                    disposed to promote Peace & brighten the old Chain of Friendship with the white People of
                    the united States; and that many of you have a desire that you may be instructed in tilling the
                    Ground, to live after the Manner of the white People, which we believe you will find to be more
                    comfortable for you & your Families than to live only by hunting; and we think it will be
                    also good for your young People to be learnt to read & write, and that sober, honest,
                    good Men should be sent among you for Teachers.
            Brothers
            We have often told some of your Chiefs when we have had the opportunity of taking them by the hand in
                    this City, that we are not concerned in the management of the Affairs of Government, which are under
                    the direction of the President of the united States & his Counsellors, but that we should
                    at all times be willing to do any thing in our Power to promote Love & Peace.
            Brothers
            We greatly desire that the Commissioners who are now sent by the President, and your Counsellors
                    & Chiefs may look up to the great Spirit for his Wisdom & help that you  may all be made wise & strong, to light up the
                    Council fire and brighten the Chain of old Friendship, that all things may be settled to
                    satisfaction, and all Logs taken out of the Road; and a lasting Peace established so that there may
                    be no more difference & War between your People & the Inhabitants of these
                    States.
            And we desire you may receive our Friends by whom we send this Writing in Love as Brothers, who are
                    disposed to encourage you in all good Things—And in the antient Love which our
                    Grandfathers & yours felt for each other we salute you; wishing your happiness in this
                    Life and that which is to come and remain
            Your Friends & Brothers
            Philada. 4th. mo. 19th. 1793 
                  Isaac Zane
                  Henry Drinker
                  Joseph Shotwell
                  James Moon
                  Joseph Bringhurst
                  John Pierce junr.
                  Richd. Lawrence
                  John Drinker
                  Abrm. Cadwalader
                  Charles West
                  David Evans
                  Thos. George
                  James Pemberton
                  Thos. Walmsley
                  Thos. Gaskill
                  Samuel Smith
                  Benja. 
                                Mason
                            
                  
                  John Roberts
                  John Pemberton
                  Saml. Smith
                  Jonathn. Evans junr.
                  David Bacon
                  Saml. Clark
                  David Cumming
                  George Churchman
                  Owen Biddle
                  John Wistar
                  Thos. Lightfoot
                  Danl. Offley
                  James Emlen
                  Robt. Holiday
                  Mark Miller
                  Jesse Foulke
                  John Simpson
                  Oliver Paxson
                  John Boon
                  Simon Meredith
                  John Field
                  Nathan Coope
                  Calib Carmalt
                  Warner Mifflin
                  Stepn. Mendenhall
                  Nicholas Waln
                  William Wilson
               
            
            And the Friends who undertake this Journey are directed to be furnished with a Copy of the written
                    Message received by Captain Hendricks from Hopacken;9 that they may have an
                    opportunity if they find it expedient to take proper Notice of it in such personal Communication as
                    they have with the Indians.
            
               
                  9 This Captain Hendricks was probably the Indian leader mentioned in American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I, 169, 322. As is suggested in the
                        Introduction, "this Journey" apparently refers to a trip of Quakers in
                        connection with the unsuccessful negotiations with the Indians in 1793.
            
         
         
         
            George Cary Eggleston's Explanation for Indiana's Literary Achievements
            
                    Edited by Vincent P. De Santis and Janet Brooks*
               
                
            In 1902 when George Cary Eggleston (1839-1911) wrote this letter on why he thought Indiana had
                    achieved more literary prominence than any other state of the Old Northwest, he was at the height of
                    his career as a literary commentator.1 It had taken him some time to reach this
                    position and there were occasions when he was diverted from it. After spending little more than a
                    year at Indiana Asbury (now DePauw) University, he was forced for financial reasons to begin
                    teaching at Ryker's Ridge, near 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, when only sixteen years old. His experiences there furnished the inspiration
                    for his brother Edward's Hoosier School-Master.
            
            At the age of seventeen, George Cary Eggleston inherited his family's plantation in
                            
                  Amelia County, Virginia
               , and thus entered into an aristocratic and leisurely kind of
                    life which he later idealized in much of his writing. Since he was not so vehemently opposed to
                    slavery as his brother Edward (although he did disapprove of it), he was able to enjoy life in the
                    Old Dominion. Having attended 
                        Richmond
                     College in 1857-1858, he studied law in 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , and then
                    began his own practice. Although he had voted against secession, Eggleston enlisted in the
                    Confederate army after Virginia seceded and there he served under both Colonel J. E. B. Stuart and
                    General Fitzhugh Lee.
            Following a brief visit to his hometown of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, after the war, he worked for a banking and steamboat company in Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , and later practiced law in 
                        Mississippi
                    . In 1870 he moved to 
                        New York City
                    , where for the next thirty years he enjoyed a journalistic career with such diverse
                    publications as the 
                        Brooklyn
                    
                    Daily Union, Hearth and 
                     * Vincent P. De Santis is professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, Notre
                                Dame, Indiana, and Janet Brooks is a librarian at the Naval Observatory Library, 
                                    Washington
                                , D.C.
                     
                        1 For biographical information about George Cary Eggleston
                                presented in a concise way, see R. E. Banta (comp.), Indiana Authors and
                                    Their Books, 1816-1916 (
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Ind., 1949), 98-100; Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana
                                    Literature ([
                                    Indianapolis
                                ], 1962), 273-285.
                  
                         Home, The Magazine of American Homes, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Post, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Commercial Advertiser, and the 
                        New York
                    
                    World. He served on the staffs of these newspapers and magazines either as editor
                    or editor in chief. In 1900 he retired from editing to devote his full time to writing. During a
                    period of forty years, Eggleston produced more than forty books, including histories, biographies,
                    two books of reminiscences, and a number of novels and boys' stories.
            In 1902 the Indiana Club of 
                        Chicago
                     held a reception for authors born in Indiana. George Cary Eggleston was unable to
                    attend but sent his regrets in a fairly lengthy letter, which he perhaps intended to be read in his
                    absence. The very fact that the club was sponsoring such a reception, he wrote, had stimulated
                    discussion in eastern newspapers and periodicals about the reason Indiana had produced more literary
                    accomplishments than any other state carved from the Old Northwest. His letter attempted to supply
                    the answer to that question.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              The Authors Club1
                              
                              
                                 
                                    New York City
                                 ,
                           
                                    27 March 1902
                                
                        To the Indiana Club of 
                                        Chicago
                                    , Gentlemen;
                        I very deeply regret that my engagements forbid me to attend your reception to
                                    Authors of Indiana birth. I regret this the more because I regard the development of
                                    literary activity among men of Indiana birth as a phenonenon [sic]
                                    of some importance in the history of our country.
                        
                           
                              1 This letter is in the William Henry Smith Papers of the
                                        Ohio Historical Society, 
                                 Columbus, Ohio
                              . It is an original typescript with a holograph
                                        heading and closing and some corrections apparently in Eggleston's
                                        handwriting. Whether this manuscript is the letter that was sent to the Indiana
                                        Club or only a draft or retained copy is unknown. William Henry Smith
                                        (1833-1896), a prominent newspaperman, was the general agent of the Western
                                        Associated Press and also the author of A Political History of
                                            Slavery, a work about the midwestern antislavery movement published
                                        posthumously in 1903. It is not known how Eggleston's letter, written
                                        six years after Smith's death, came to be included in the Smith Papers.
                                        The letter is printed below with the permission of the Ohio Historical Society.
                                        In this transcription the original manuscript has been followed faithfully
                                        except for a few minor changes in spacing. Eggleston's corrections,
                                        which involved punctuation, paragraphing, spelling, and a few changes in
                                        diction, have been incorporated in the text of the letter.
                        
                        
                        The fact that you are giving such a reception has aroused anew, in the Eastern
                                    literary newspapers and periodicals, a curious inquiry as to why it is that Indiana
                                    has produced so much more of literary achievement than all of her sister states
                                    which were carved out of the Northwest Territory, combined, have done.2
                        
                        It seems to me that the explanation is obvious. When Virginia ceded her part of that
                                    territory to the Union Thomas Jefferson wrote into the deed of Cession a clause
                                    forever prohibiting slavery in any part of that fair land. This stipulation opened
                                    the new territory equally to settlement from the North and from the South and
                                    Indiana's fair fields first attracted immigration from both sides of the
                                    dividing line. It was a tradition of my boyhood that my grandfather, a Kentucky
                                    slave-holder, removed himself with all his belongings to Indiana and that when he
                                    did so his friends remonstrated with him on the ground that by such removal he would
                                    set his slaves free.3 According to the tradition his response
                                    was "I am setting myself free at any rate. I do not propose to be condemned
                                    to live always on one side of a river because I cannot hold slaves on the other
                                    side. I am going to take all my negroes to Indiana. They will then be free of
                                    course; but so shall I."
                        In the same spirit many thousands of other southerners, Kentuckians, Carolinians, and
                                    Virginians, moved hopefully into the new land, there to be free from the incubus
                                    which rested like any other nightmare upon the regions from which they came. At the
                                    same time a great immigation set in from New 
                              England, New York
                           
                                    and 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , tempted by the fertility of the Indiana lands and by the glorious
                                    future that was so obviously open to those who should subdue and possess that fair
                                    country.
                        The combination was altogether a good one. It brought together into a single
                                    community the shrewdness of the New 
                                        England
                                     immigrant and the generous breadth of mind which 
                              
                                 2 Indiana's literary prominence during the
                                            late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries has been
                                            "explained" in different ways. For a recent discussion of
                                            the factors which possibly contributed to the state's literary
                                            achievements, see Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana
                                                Literature ([
                                                Indianapolis
                                            ], 1962), 3-15.
                              
                                 3 This was Eggleston's maternal grandfather,
                                            Captain George Craig, an Indian fighter and frontiersman who came from a
                                            distinguished Kentucky family. Ibid., 262.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              PAGE FOUR OF EGGLESTON'S LETTER TO THE INDIANA CLUB OF
                                            CHICAGO
                              Courtesy Ohio Historical Society, 
                                                Columbus
                                            
                              
                           
                                     inspired the migrating southerner.
                                    Inter-marriage between these two groups of altogether worthy men and women could not
                                    and did not fail to produce a stalwart race, superior in many ways to either its
                                    fatherhood or its motherhood, and that race, trained and disciplined and fashioned
                                    into sturdy manhood by the work that must be done in subduing the wilderness and
                                    teaching it to blossom as the rose came to the front in American history as one born
                                    to achieve and destined to high accomplishment.
                        There came also and early the Yankee school-mistress4—God bless her! to teach the young Hoosiers something more and
                                    better than their skill with the ax and the rifle. From the very beginning the
                                    Yankee school mistress was omnipresent, and her influence was all pervading in the
                                    life of the Hoosier State.
                        It did its perfect work beginning with the early fifties. At that time Horace
                                    Mann's teaching with regard to education had wrought a revolution in
                                    Massachusetts and the Yankee school-ma'am was quick to adopt and transfer
                                    all that was good in that educational revolution to the wilderness of the west.
                        First of all, among the western states, Indiana recognized education and culture as
                                    matters of higher import than the mere making of crops or the achievement of
                                    material success in other directions. First of all, and years before any other
                                    western state essayed such an enterprize [sic], Indiana everywhere
                                    established graded schools.5 Nor was she content with this: to
                                    her grammar schools she added high schools everywhere, whose curricula were
                                    carefully adapted to the preparation of young men and women for admission to college
                                    and for the higher education. In the meanwhile her several church denominations were
                                    everywhere establishing colleges, designed primarily for the training of ministers
                                    and for the propagation of their narrow individual tenets, but incidentally
                                    affording 
                              
                                 4 This statement was probably inspired by the example
                                            of Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, a teacher at 
                                                Vevay
                                            , Indiana. Both George Cary Eggleston and his brother Edward are
                                            generous in their evaluation of her influence upon them as their teacher.
                                            Mrs. Dumont was herself a well-known author in her day and possibly the
                                            first woman to achieve literary fame in the Ohio Valley. Although born in
                                                    
                                    Marietta, Ohio
                                 , she was reared in 
                                                New York
                                             and did not return to the West until after her marriage in
                                            1812. Ibid., 180-186, 262, 274.
                              
                                 5 Eggleston is more romantic than realistic about
                                            certain aspects of Indiana's early educational achievements.
                           
                                     to young men the best that was then known of
                                    classical and scientific education. They did this so perfectly and at so small a
                                    cost that every young man in Indiana in the early fifties, who cared to educate
                                    himself, could do so at practically no cost at all, except the scanty board bills
                                    which were then the rule in all college towns. For this development of schools and
                                    higher educational institutions in the early ages of her statehood, Indiana deserves
                                    the very highest honor that statecraft has anywhere won.
                        There was also the influence of Indiana life. It was strenuous, hard working,
                                    interesting. It brought into sharp contrast those differences of character and
                                    custom and habit which constitute picturesqueness and it mingled them in a fashion
                                    which has rarely been seen in any other part of the world.
                        Literature is only a reflection of life. In so far as it assumes to be anything else
                                    it is of necessity worthless. To the instructed mind it is in no wise astonishing,
                                    therefore, that the highly educated Indiana men who in their youth were confronted
                                    with the strange contrasts and the strange intermingling of customs which
                                    constituted the Hoosier life have brought to bear all of their educational
                                    qualifications upon the interested and interesting presentation of that life in
                                    literature.
                        In other words the Indiana author has been a natural and necessary product of the
                                    conditions created by Indiana's history. If he has done good work it is
                                    quite a matter of course. His state has produced him precisely as it has produced
                                    corn and wheat and hay, and he is as truly a product of the soil as are those other
                                    crops the sale of which has made this state rich in money. Let us believe that
                                    Indiana values her intellectual crop even more highly than she does those products
                                    of her forests and fields which have poured such wealth into her lap.
                        
                                    Very sincerely Yours
                                    George Cary Eggleston
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Political and Social Thought of Charles A. Beard. By Bernard C. Borning.
                    (Seattle: University of 
                        Washington
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xxv, 315. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.75.)
            This, the first full book-length treatment of Beard by a single author, is a heroic attempt to
                    portray the famous historian and political scientist as a social and political thinker. The very
                    bulk and variety of Beard's writings make this task especially difficult, if challenging,
                    to the assiduous researcher. Beard's prolific output—from his first book The Industrial Revolution, in 1901, to his swan song, President
                        Roosevelt and the Coming of the War, 1941, in 1948, the year of his death—ranges
                    over virtually the whole first half of the twentieth century, with hardly a single year
                    unrepresented in his list of publications. This reviewer counted in Professor Borning's
                    bibliography—more extensive even that found in Howard K. Beale (ed.), Charles A. Beard: An Appraisal—108 books or parts of books and 316 articles by
                    Beard, not including numerous book reviews and miscellaneous writings.
            Out of this mass of materials, some of it scholarly and profound, some of it popular and polemical,
                    and much of it inconsistent, the author has sought, successfully for the most part, to discover and
                    set forth a more or less unified pattern of social and political philosophy. He traces the evolution
                    of Beard's thinking through the extraordinarily eventful years of a long career as teacher,
                    writer, and public man and interprets him primarily as a seeker for a general theory of society and
                    history and as a thinker whose ideas change radically in response to changing conditions in the
                    world about him. Beginning as a young iconoclastic scholar who disdained all theory and wanted only
                    to study politics empirically, Beard became the embattled economic determinist of An
                        Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the 
                            United States
                        
                (1913) in the progressive era. Later he learned to put more stress on the role
                    of ideas and on the individual in history and came, for example, to a new appreciation of the
                    founding fathers, whose economic interests he had earlier given chief credit for molding the
                    Constitution. At the same time he moved toward revisionism and relativism in historiography and
                    isolationism (or continentalism, as Beard preferred to say) in foreign policy. Two world wars and
                    the Great Depression as well as the rise of Fascism and Nazism in Europe influenced him greatly and
                    helped him to lose both his positivist faith in scientific history and most of his hope for human
                    advancement in democratic society. His thought ended in near despair in the atomic age.
            The author, showing well how Beard's ideas developed in different periods, pushes back his
                    isolationist tendencies to the disillusionment with World War I Wilsonian idealism in the early
                    twenties and points to Beard's persistent rationalism and optimistic belief in human
                    progress as unifying strands in his social thought almost to the very end. Borning does not dig very
                    deeply into the sources of Beard's thought, however, and fails to explain satisfactorily
                    all its shifts and turnings.
            
            What sort of social and political thinker was Beard? He was certainly a complex thinker and one hard
                    to classify. His greatest influence on historical thinking has probably not been either his
                    relativism or his revisionism but his basic interpretation of American history—partly
                    modified toward the end of his life—as a struggle between business and Populism,
                    industrialism and agrarianism; thus he created an oversimplified bipolarization of American politics
                    and society which the textbooks have not yet completely discarded. This influence has been far
                    greater than any of his social or political thinking. Charles A. Beard was a scholar who was also a
                    reformer and moralist with an almost romantic belief in democracy—a man whose reformism
                    and moralism colored his history. He tried nobly but ultimately failed to construct a viable social
                    and political philosophy for a difficult and dangerous age.
            
                    DePauw University
                
            Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
            
               Eugene V. Debs: Socialist for President. By H. Wayne Morgan. (
                        Syracuse
                    , N.Y.: 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. x, 267. Illustrations, bibliographical essay, notes, index.
                    $5.75.)
            The organizational structure of a political biography does not allow an author much opportunity to
                    use his imagination. So it is not surprising that the study of Eugene V. Debs by H. Wayne Morgan
                    settles into the familiar grooves. The early career of Debs receives scant attention; his character
                    and personal life are explored only at points where they illuminate his political behavior; and the
                    biography comes to a focus on his five campaigns for the presidency. The author provides a wealth of
                    detail on the successive efforts of Debs to reach the White House and has made the most of the
                    available source material to document the narrative. Although the search for the breezy transitional
                    phrase sometimes involves the author in questionable generalizations such as "Presidential
                    campaigns are by definition exciting" (p. 47), style is one of the strong points of the
                    book.
            The biography nevertheless betrays a certain lack of depth which is not wholly the fault of Morgan.
                    Debs appears to have been a rather commonplace crusader with little to recommend him except a
                    sentimental attachment to the common man and an engaging platform manner. One gets the feeling that
                    if he had been born farther west, he would have served a term as a Populist senator and never have
                    been heard of again. Without intending to detract from the stature of Debs, the author points out
                    repeatedly that Debs had no interest in Socialist theory and resisted involvement in doctrinal
                    quarrels and organizational problems. Unfortunately, the author is not much more concerned about
                    such matters than Debs, so he compresses the narrative into an account of five presidential
                    campaigns that turn out to be depressingly similar. There are the same transcontinental tours, the
                    same enthusiastic crowds, the same struggles of faithful Socialists to raise money. If anything
                    varied between 1900 and 1912, including the issues, Morgan has kept it a dark secret. Only the 1920
                    campaign, which Debs waged from the federal penitentiary in 
                        Atlanta
                    , constitutes a break in the pattern. Even within this discouraging framework, the
                    author might have dealt  with some points that he ignores. One
                    wonders, for example, why Debs attracted such huge audiences and so few votes. Perhaps he was a
                    curiosity like a circus performer, or perhaps voters otherwise attracted shied away from
                    identification with the Socialist label.
            Whatever the answer, it raises the larger problem of why both Debs and the Socialist party failed.
                    The author deals with these issues only tangentially. He distinguishes between conservatives and
                    radicals in the Socialist movement but nowhere makes a systematic analysis of the doctrinal and
                    tactical disagreements behind their split. The omission seems to reflect the view that the reader
                    will already know about the shadings within the Marxist spectrum and take the initiative in relating
                    personal quarrels to doctrinal positions. Even if the optimism of the author about his readers is
                    justified, this study of Debs would benefit by more attention to Socialist platforms and the
                    strategy behind them. A few words about the structure of the Socialist party would also strengthen
                    the presentation. No doubt readers can draw some inferences from scattered assertions that
                    Socialists charged admission to their rallies. They can probably guess from cryptic statements about
                    membership that the party was committed to the idea of a dues-paying rank and file. These
                    characteristics of Marxist parties, as well as others that might be mentioned, have a bearing on the
                    reaction of the American voter to Debs.
            The treatment of the Socialist party is still more telegraphic and murky when the author examines its
                    relation to other aspects of the labor movement. He may be correct when he asserts that
                    "many AFL members were socialists or sympathizers" (p. 60), but this kind of
                    generalization is novel enough to warrant more extensive defense either in the text or footnotes.
                    The uneasy relationship between the I.W.W. and the Socialists could also be amplified profitably as
                    well as the factional tangles which followed in the wake of World War I and the Russian Revolution.
            Finally, a mild expression of dissent must be made to the prevailing tendency to write about parties
                    and their candidates as if neither existed except for the six months preceding a presidential
                    election. Ordinarily the campaign is the climax of developments that have jelled during the long
                    interval when voter interest lags. To overlook the continuity of party activity is to miss important
                    factors that contribute to election strategy. These shortcomings should not discourage anyone from
                    reading Morgan's biography of Debs, but it is a pity when a researcher does not share his
                    accumulated insights more fully with his readers.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            George H. Mayer
         
         
            
               La Vie Agricole et Rurale dans l'Ètat d'Indiana
                        á l'Èpoque Pionniére. By Geneviéve
                    d'Haucourt. Sorbonne, Ècole Pratique des Hautes Ètudes. Le Monde d'Outre-mer Passè et Prèsent, Premiére
                        Sèrie, Ètudes, XII. (
                        Paris
                    : Mouton & Company, 1961. Pp. 410. Bibliography, maps, graphs, illustrations.
                    Paperbound, 45 NF.)
            Miss d'Haucourt's book is the twelfth of the Ètudes
                    sponsored by the Ècole Pratique des Hautes Ètudes of the Sorbonne. Besides the
                        Ètudes, three other series have also been issued by this
                    institution under  the general title of Le Monde
                        d'Outre-mer Passè et Prèsent. La Vie Agricole et Rurale duns
                        l'Ètat d'Indiana á l'Èpoque
                        Pionniére is the only volume thus far devoted to subject matter pertaining to
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            Since this work appears in French and is not likely to be translated into English, its reader appeal
                    in the 
                        United States
                     will be limited. It seems desirable, therefore, to indicate its nature in some detail
                    for those with at least a reluctant knowledge of French. (A college reading proficiency will do).
            In the absence of any prefatory statement indicating the purpose of this book, quotations from Irvin
                    S. Cobb and William Warren Sweet on a pre-text page proclaim that Indiana is "the most
                    typically American State in the American Democracy," that here the pioneer culture is more
                    tenacious than elsewhere in the Old Northwest, and that in such a context "were decided the
                    religious and political destinies of the 
                        United States
                    ." To substantiate these assertions then seems to be Miss
                    d'Haucourt's purpose, but her contents do not support them. Rather, the volume is
                    simply a descriptive account of pioneer life in Indiana in the first half of the nineteenth century.
            In encyclopedic fashion and format a wide range of subjects is covered including such things as tournois d'èpellation (spelling bees) and other cultural
                    practices, clôtures en zigzag (rail fences) and a wide variety of
                    agricultural topics, bateaux á vapeur (steamboats) and other means of
                    transportation, and le crèdit and economic problems of the early state.
            All of this is garnished with two dozen excellent miscellaneous illustrations; thirty-three simple
                    and to-the-point maps; an appendix of three short memoir pioneer biographies; a twenty-nine-page,
                    omni-inclusive but nevertheless useful, bibliographical collection of titles of Indiana-related
                    items; and interesting tables for converting units of measure into the metric system. With all of
                    these features, however, there is a serious omission. A few will read the volume from cover to
                    cover; but most will regard it as a reference-type work to be consulted on occasion for information
                    on a specific topic. The table of contents is not sufficiently analytical to serve this purpose. An
                    index would help immeasurably.
            There is an amazing amount of information packed into the pages of this book; but the author relies
                    heavily on direct quotation and employs what is sometimes called the scissors-and-paste method. It
                    is, then, more a product of synthesis than of analysis. This can result in something quite valuable;
                    but in La Vie Agricole et Rurale the synthesizing is non-discriminatory in its
                    inclusiveness. Further, its portrayal of pioneer Indiana is more romantic than scholarly.
            To its American readers it will be regarded as not worth the translation effort for information that
                    is more readily obtainable in English. The value of the book must be judged, however, from the
                    standpoint of its French-non-English readers. Since it will be generally the only thing available to
                    them on the subject, its impact, therefore, will be correspondingly greater than otherwise.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Dwight L. Smith
         
         
         
            
               Lion of White Hall: The Life of Cassius M. Clay. By David L. Smiley. (
                        Madison
                    : The University of Wisconsin Press, 1962. Pp. ix, 294. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    note, notes, index. $6.00.)
            This is a scholarly biography of a colorful and controversial Ken-tuckian. Cassius Marcellus 
                        Clay
                    's life was filled with violence and romance. A rough-and-tumble fighter, his
                    prowess with bowie knife and club was all too well known to his personal and political enemies. He
                    divorced his first wife forty-five years after their marriage. While minister to Russia, Clay
                    fathered an illegitimate son, whom he brought to Kentucky four years later to rear. At the age of
                    eighty-six he took unto himself a fifteen-year-old bride. Divorced three years later, Clay
                    unsuccessfully advertised for a wife in various Kentucky newspapers. He was ninety-three years old
                    at the time of his death at White Hall, near 
                  Richmond, Kentucky
               , in 1903.
            Hoping to follow in the footsteps of his illustrious cousin, Henry 
                        Clay
                    , his all-consuming objectives in life were public office and political power. To
                    achieve these ends, he sought to win the support of the non-slaveholding class in Kentucky by
                    advocating the abolition of slavery, which he insisted had retarded the economic development of the
                    South. Clay insisted that he opposed slavery, not because he loved the Negro, but because he wanted
                    to help the whites. He won the enmity of the slaveowners, who regarded him as a traitor to his
                    class. (Incidentally, Clay delayed the freeing of his own slaves until 1844, sixteen years after he
                    inherited them from his father).
            
               
                        Clay
                    's biography is in part a study of political failure. His success in elective
                    office was limited to three terms in the Kentucky state legislature. A Whig in the early years, he
                    opposed the annexation of Texas and the declaration of war against 
                        Mexico
                    . But realizing the importance of a military career in politics, he entered the army and
                    was elected captain of his company. Instead of winning military honors, Clay and his outfit were
                    captured by the Mexicans at an early date and held prisoners until the end of the war.
            He was among the first in Kentucky to join the Republican party. In 1856 he sought the Republican
                    nomination for the presidency and again in 1860. After campaigning vigorously for 
                        Lincoln
                     in the latter contest, Clay had hopes of being rewarded with a cabinet position.
                    Instead, he had to be content with the post of minister to Russia, where he remained almost seven
                    years. His stay in St. 
                        Petersburg
                     was marred by diplomatic blunders, acts of violence, and social indiscretions. On his
                    return home he strongly opposed the radical program of reconstruction. With this on his record, Clay
                    joined the Democratic party with the hope of being Samuel J. Tilden's running mate in the
                    election of 1876. He returned to the Republican party and in 1884 actively campaigned for James G.
                    Blaine; this was his last participation in national politics.
            Professor Smiley has accomplished the unusual feat of combining sound research with an interesting
                    style of writing. The biography reads like a novel. There is a useful note on source material and
                    the index is adequate.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Powell A. Moore
         
         
         
            
               Insull. By Forrest McDonald. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xvi, 350. Illustrations, notes, index. $4.95.)
            Most Americans old enough to remember Samuel Insull will vaguely recall that he was a 
                        Chicago
                     utilities tycoon indicted for fraud after he had fled to Europe. In this lively
                    biography Forrest McDonald, 
                        Brown
                     University history professor, goes far beyond the shocking headlines of the early
                    depression thirties. In writing this thoroughly documented study the author had full access to the
                    private papers of the Insull family and to the records of the many companies under the management of
                    the financier. McDonald also interviewed dozens of the men who had known and worked with Insull
                    during his long business career. The result is a friendly but fair biography.
            Born of lower-middle-class parents in 
                        London
                     in 1859, young Insull at the age of fourteen became an office boy for five shillings a
                    week. In 1881 he came to America and soon was secretary to Thomas Edison, who was busy in 
                        New York City
                     commercially introducing his recently invented system of incandescent lighting. As he
                    became the inventor's closest financial adviser during his dozen years with Edison, Insull
                    learned many skills he was later to use in 
                        Chicago
                    . He also incurred the enmity of Morgan and other eastern financiers. In 1892 the young
                    English financial wizard moved to 
                        Chicago
                     as president of the 
                        Chicago
                     Edison Company.
            In 
                        Chicago
                     Insull quickly worked out the economies of central electric supply and soon was
                    building power plants that were the envy of the industry. He pioneered rural electrification in the
                    farm country of northern Illinois and Indiana and devised new systems of marketing securities that
                    are standard practice in corporate finance today. To the consternation of many of his industrial
                    colleagues he early advocated the regulation of public utilities by state commissions. He cut power
                    rates at every opportunity: in fact his rates were so attractively low that the number of his
                    customers at least doubled every four years between 1898 and World War I. During the war he was so
                    energetic a chairman of the Illinois State Council of Defense that he frequently was ahead of his
                    co-ordinating superiors in 
                        Washington
                    . He always stressed the importance of good employee relations and good public
                    relations.
            As the reader follows Insull into middle age he may well wonder when this paragon is going to become
                    a scoundrel. In 1926 Samuel Insull was the respected manager of a three-billion-dollar gas and
                    electric empire that served 4,000,000 customers in 5,000 communities in 32 states. In 1928 he
                    started to make mistakes. To offset a raid by Cyrus S. Eaton, of 
                        Cleveland
                    , Insull created the first of several holding companies. The bull market sent the prices
                    of the new securities spiralling upward, but in the following panic Insull lost heavily, as did the
                    thousands of little people across America who had invested in his empire. With a series of missteps
                    Insull swamped himself with debt, and his financial enemies moved in for the kill. Soon the press,
                    the politicians, and the courts combined against the fallen czar. He was returned from Istanbul to
                    face a series of indictments but was acquitted on all counts.
            
            In this sympathetic study the author clearly feels that Insull's adopted state and nation
                    did not fully appreciate his half century of effort to make electric power both cheap and widely
                    available. After reading this excellent biography many readers may tend to agree with Forrest
                    McDonald.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            John F. Stover
         
         
            
               John Francis Snyder: Selected Writings. Edited by Clyde C. Walton. (
                        Springfield
                    : Illinois State Historical Society, 1962. Pp. v, 329. Biographical essay,
                    illustrations, notes, appendix, index. $15.00.)
            John Francis Snyder was born in 
                  St. Clair County, Illinois
               , in March, 1830. He died in
                            
                  Virginia, Illinois
               , in April, 1921. He was by profession a physician and lawyer
                    and by avocation an antiquary, historian, and archaeologist. For the last fifty-seven years of his
                    life he resided at Virginia where he engaged in the practice of medicine, wrote Illinois history,
                    explored Indian mounds, collected natural history specimens, opened a country museum, and promoted
                    the foundation of the Illinois State Historical Society. This volume, made possible by a gift of
                    funds from his daughter to the society, is to commemorate the long and unusually productive career
                    of Dr. Snyder.
            The book contains a preface by Clyde C. Walton, a biographical sketch by Phyllis E. Connolly, an
                    appraisal of Snyder as an archaeologist by Melvin L. Fowler, and reprints of some of
                    Snyder's historical and archaeological writing. An appendix contains a bibliography of
                    Snyder's general and archaeological works. The articles reprinted are from the Transactions of the Illinois State Historical Society, Journal of the Illinois State Historical
                        Society, and The Archaeologist.
            
            This is a handsome volume, designed, printed, and bound by R. R. Donnelley & Sons. Its
                    tasteful design and faultless craftsmanship would have been agreeable to Dr. Snyder. He was a man
                    not often pleased with the work of others!
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Cecil I. Byrd
         
         
            
               Our Amish Neighbors. By William I. Schreiber. Drawings by Sybil Gould. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xii, 227. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.)
            This is a delightful book by a professor who has spent decades in the study of the Amish. When Ohio
                    was created as a state in 1803 there was not a single white man in what is now 
                        Wayne County
                    . But as early as 1807 Jakob (Jockle) Miller, an Amishman from 
                        Somerset County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , settled in 
                        Wayne County
                     only to be followed by others. Today there are over 5,000 baptized Amish members in the
                    four counties of 
                        Wayne
                    , Holmes, Tuscarawas, and Coschocton. Schreiber has made a thorough investigation of
                    this sect particularly in Wayne and Holmes counties and has also read widely as his excellent
                    bibliography indicates.
            
            In studying the faith of the Amish, Schreiber concludes that their basic principles are refusal to
                    bear arms, literal observance of both communion and foot washing as religious rites, refusal to
                    swear oaths, separation from the "world," expulsion and shunning of the
                    disobedient and those who live in sin, "extensive mutual aid among all faithful
                    members," ordination of all church officials from the local congregation, and voluntary
                    church membership as symbolized by adult baptism (p. 75). The key to many of the most distinctive
                    practices of the Amish lies in their concept of the "world" and their concern to
                    avoid "worldiness." They are strict Biblicists, following the letter of the Bible
                    yet actually using only those portions which seem relevant to them.
            The most lively and amusing chapter of the book is the one devoted to a newspaper which caters to the
                    Amish of North America, the Sugarcreek Budget of Tuscarawas County, 
                        Ohio
                    . Here in a sort of news forum is found family and church correspondence from Amish
                    writers in dozens of communities and intended for Amish readers. The English sometimes has a strong 
                        Pennsylvania
                        German
                     flavor and the news is reported openly and faithfully. Indeed the normally reserved and
                    taciturn Amish are often quite maudlin about the details of deaths and accidents.
            The saddest chapter in the book is the one dealing with the Amish practice of
                    "shunning," which is the breaking of social intercourse with excommunicated
                    persons. (Such action led an Ohio Amishman to sue his bishop, ministers, and deacon in 1947; the
                    shunned Amishman won the case and was awarded $5,000.)
            Professor Schreiber correctly senses that the Amish have their religious life and faith and their
                    rural peasant culture indissolubly fused into a way of life and a doctrine they regard sincerely and
                    naively as the law of God revealed in the Scriptures. Indeed the author displays remarkable insight
                    in his understanding of the Amish mentality as he delineates the lay "theology" of
                    the group with its strong emphasis on separation from the "world." He also traces
                    back to pre-Christian Teutonic practices certain customs of the Amish for which they themselves have
                    no explanation. Nor are the Amish unfamiliar with such ancient practices as bundling but once
                    married they are strictly faithful to their mates and divorce is unknown among them. To Professor
                    Schreiber, who himself is of 
                        German
                     peasant stock, the Amish are the last representatives on earth of the ancient 
                        German
                     peasant (p. 88).
            Mistakes are few: Gospel Herald and Herold der Wahrheit both have
                    the erroneous spelling Harold (pp. 46, 157); the Amish communion service is the Lord's
                    Supper and not to be confused with the "love feast" kept by the Church of the
                    Brethren, commonly called the "Dunkards" (p. 124); the "Our
                    Father" is in Matthew 6 instead of Matthew 5 (p. 130). Some of the author's
                    conclusions and statements, however, could be challenged. Does he give the correct explanation for
                    few chimneys or might the real cause be economy? Do the shapes of barn ventilation openings have
                    religious significance (pp. 50, 51)? Do early marriage and large families stunt women (p. 59)?
                    Perhaps a better expression than "healthy in their faith" would be the Mennonite
                    one, "sound in the faith" (p. 131).
            
            Throughout the book the author manifests a scholarly mastery of his field including such items as the
                    ballad forms in the ancient hymnbook of 1664, the Ausbund (pp. 138-139). His
                    description of Amish singing is superb (p. 140). All in all this is one of the finest studies of the
                    Amish to date and is written with scholarly accuracy and interpretation and with fine objectivity.
            
                    
                  
                            Goshen
                         College Biblical Seminary
                
            J. C. Wenger
         
         
            
               Probing the American West: Papers from the Santa Fe Conference. Edited by K.
                    Ross Toole et al. Introduction by Ray A. Billington. (Santa Fe: Museum of New 
                        Mexico
                     Press, 1962. Pp. viii, 216. Notes, index, program pamphlet. $5.00.)
            The term "West" in American history has been applied to a moving area much in the
                    same way as the term "frontier." In this book the editors have apparently decided
                    to accept the West of the post-Civil War days as the "West." For the most part the
                    contributors to this volume do not think of the West as a psychological force creating new men.
                    There are in these essays few suggestions about any distinct kind of man—except perhaps
                    in the essays on Indians.
            There is implicit in the calling of the symposium and in the selection of topics a notion of a
                    definite historical locale and period. The approach is generally historical in the sense that the
                    meaning of the American West is sought in the area itself and not in any national or world-wide
                    significance. The bibliographical essays indicate that the study of the West for itself is really
                    just beginning.
            The other essays in the volume tend towards the literary and perhaps the whimsical. Several of the
                    essays, particularly that of Oscar Winther on "The Persistence of Horse-Drawn
                    Transportation in the Trans-Mississippi West, 1865-1900," help to get away from
                    anachronistic elements that slip into one's notions of the West. William T.
                    Hagen's "Quanah Parker: Indian Judge" and John E. Ewers'
                    "Mothers of the Mixed-Bloods: The Marginal Women in the History of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    " suggest many chapters of interesting history that can be written by
                    understanding writers who do not get too technically sociological. The lack of any essay on the
                    religious history of the West is unexplained. Probably the want of religious historians of these
                    areas explains the lack of interest.
            Certain non-western factors, such as the trend to the city, the decline of agricultural values, and
                    certainly the latest changes in the means of transportation, have as much to do with the changed
                    evaluation of western history as the change in the West itself. But there are always people who seem
                    at home on marginal lands and some who are content to be identified with a locality where they can
                    survive comfortably. The old West was chiefly a story of conquest, of striving toward a golden
                    future. Some places in the West are continuing to grow and to aggrandize their inhabitants. But the
                    West discussed in this symposium is something gone.
            
                    University of Notre Dame
                
            Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
         
         
         
            
               History of Religion in the 
                            United States
                        . By Clifton E. Olmstead. (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall, Inc., 1960.
                    Pp. xii, 628. Endpaper maps, suggestions for additional reading, index. $10.00.)
            The late Professor Olmstead's work surveys the development of American religion from the
                    beginning until 1959. It manifests the virtues of a good textbook: sound organization, chapters of
                    manageable length (about twenty-two pages each), effective use of subheadings, clarity of style,
                    forthright presentation of fact, freedom from bias, and at least brief attention to every topic of
                    importance. (Chances are that anyone who would take the trouble to compose a random list of ten
                    persons or organizations which ought to be mentioned in such a book and who would then consult the
                    index would find references to at least nine of them.)
            After the briefest of prefaces and one inevitable chapter on "The European
                    Heritage," Professor Olmstead moves directly into his story. Eight chapters sketch the
                    colonial period, eleven deal with developments from the Revolution through the Civil War, and nine
                    cover the decades from Reconstruction to the present. Three of these final
                    chapters—"Movements toward Christian Unity," "The Retreat to
                    Normalcy," and "Religion in an Era of Crisis"—bring the book
                    "up to date," but it supersedes earlier texts in more than superficial
                    contemporaneity: throughout, the author has drawn upon the mass of new historical studies on
                    specialized aspects of religious development in this country so that he is able to present
                    conclusions deriving from the recent work of many scholars.
            The author customarily devotes about a page at the beginning of each chapter to a characterization of
                    the period as a whole. In these brief paragraphs he ordinarily evokes the mood of the time with a
                    nice touch and sets the stage for his systematic development of particular topics. By contrast, the
                    rest of the chapter, an orderly presentation of salient facts about many persons and movements,
                    tends to be dull with most of the color and fire crowded out. The virtue of a textbook is also its
                    limitation. Everything is there, but for that very reason not much of anything can be presented.
                    This is the kind of work which a student is sentenced to read because he needs some concise
                    arrangement of a mass of material; it is not a work that the literate layman will read for enjoyment
                    or instruction because, as with the dictionary, the subject changes too often. Once a person has had
                    the course, he is better off to read a more thorough work on a more specialized topic.
            The book contains gratifyingly few errors. It is doubtless an anachronism to characterize the 
                        Puritan
                     as hurling "himself into the task of building the Kingdom of God" (p.
                    77) just as it is to present this same task as the responsibility of the frontier churches at the
                    beginning of the nineteenth century (p. 242), but the author is guilty of few such lapses. The three
                    sentences on the Louisiana Purchase (p. 241) seem unnecessarily obscure, and it is inaccurate to
                    infer from W. W. Sweet's brief statement in Religion in the Development of
                        American Culture, 1765-1840 that Alexander 
                        Campbell
                     attacked missions as unscriptural (pp. 273-274); what 
                        Campbell
                     opposed in his early years was missionary societies. Almost alone
                    among his characterizations, Olmstead's sketch  of
                    late-nineteenth-century religion (at the beginning of Chapter Twenty-three) is patronizing if not
                    unfair: the "American churchgoer . . . wore his religion much as he did his Prince Albert
                    coat; it was a thing of pride, a symbol of status. . . . God . . . became a naturalized
                    American." The historian must generalize, and "churchgoer" is elusive,
                    but this passage comes close to caricature. It contains enough truth to hurt, but what about
                    perspective?
            Olmstead's work is perhaps more balanced than the textbook by William Warren Sweet, The Story of Religions in America, which it is doubtless designed to replace, but
                    it plods by comparison. And it lacks the verve of such an account as W. E. Garrison's March
                    of Faith, which covers only seven decades. Olmstead does not give the impression of being close to
                    the primary sources, of using phrases and figures from the men he is describing, or of imparting
                    their spirit to the reader. Yet this is an important and useful text, representing a harvest of
                    recent studies, which are helpfully listed in a bibliography for each chapter. Fortunate is the
                    teacher with such a work to guide a class, along with Edwin Scott Gaustad's new Historical Atlas of Religion in America (1962) and the new compendium of
                    representative documents, American Christianity (1960), edited by H. Shelton
                    Smith, Robert T. Handy, and Lefferts A. Loetscher.
            Of special interest to Hoosier readers is the sketch of the First Christian Church, 
                        Columbus
                    , designed by Eliel Saarinen, which appears on the map of Indiana in the end papers.
            
                    Christian Theological Seminary
                
            Ronald E. Osborn
         
         
            
               The Education of Historians in the 
                            United States
                        . By Dexter Perkins and John L. Snell, and The Committee on Graduate Education
                    of the American Historical Association. Carnegie Series in American Education. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1962. Pp. xiii, 244. Tables, appendixes, index.
                    $4.95.)
            Even though historians are not disposed to consider their reason for being, Dexter Perkins would have
                    his academic cohorts really consider what their service to society ought to be. Moreover, he
                    believes historians should shun narrowness, relate one area of activity to another, and as teachers
                    transcend their materials and thereby make them useful.
            It was with such thoughts in mind that Professor Perkins and others secured the sponsorship of the
                    Carnegie Corporation for an investigation that led to the present report—The
                        Education of Historians in the 
                            United States
                        . Perhaps by finding out how potentially able college teachers have been
                    misguided in their undergraduate and graduate education it might be possible to rectify this
                    situation by recommending improved curricula for those seeking to enter the historical profession.
                    Are graduate schools sufficiently self-critical of their Ph.D. programs? Is the preparation of the
                    teacher as well as the scholar being properly provided for? If not, what is being done about this
                    situation? The average time taken to acquire the Ph.D. in history is seven years. What are the
                    weaknesses in this protracted program? The committee  which
                    produced the present study has much to say on these and related questions.
            The committee's study was extensive and thorough. The field work was directed by Professor
                    John L. Snell, Tulane University, and accordingly the main core of this book, Chapters 2-9, has been
                    prepared by him. These crucial chapters deal with the question, "Do we need more college
                    teachers?" They analyze the college preparation of graduate students in history, history in
                    colleges, the professional degrees and the institutions that grant them, criticisms of the Ph.D.
                    programs, and experiments in teacher training programs.
            The report is well bolstered with statistical data, and it is of special interest to note the
                    relative position of Indiana University within the professional historical framework. Indiana
                    University provided the baccalaureate degree for 25 Ph.D.'s in American history between the
                    years 1936-1956; during an eleven-year span, 1948-1958, the Indiana University History Department
                    awarded 57 Ph.D.'s as compared with 377 awarded by 
                        Harvard
                    , 91 by 
                        Stanford
                    , 67 by the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and 39 by Johns Hopkins. Within Midwest institutions for the more recent period,
                    1955-1959, Indiana University ranked about evenly with her sister institutions in granting
                    Ph.D.'s—ahead of 
                  Chicago,
                            Illinois, Michigan
               , and Northwestern, even with 
                        Minnesota
                    , but behind 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The report points out that the History Department of Indiana University, along with
                    Duke University, has pioneered in offering a course in "The Teaching of College
                    History."
            The concluding Chapter 10 presents the recommendations of the committee—far too numerous
                    to be included here. In general they call for improved methods of admission, continued breadth in
                    undergraduate education with stress upon foreign language training, shortening of the Ph.D. training
                    period, and the fostering of good teaching.
            This book is a landmark. It tells the professional historian where he stands now and points his way
                    to the future.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               The Scotch-Irish: A Social History. By James G. Leyburn. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xix, 377. Maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.00.)
            In 1600 no orderly government existed in 
                        Scotland
                     nor had the country experienced peace for many years at a time. Life and property were
                    insecure because of recurrent wars with 
                        England
                    , poor economic methods, infertile soil, constant cattle stealing, and feuds. Moreover,
                    a well-defined social system made it difficult to escape from one's inherited position.
                    Even though the Scots had shown little religious fervor before 1559, the arrival of John Knox from
                    exile in that year ignited the spark for a religious-civil war. Consequently, the Church of 
                        Rome
                     ceased to be the national church of 
                        Scotland
                     and the Presbyterian church became the established church. The Kirk aided in the
                    development of national unity and introduced the Scots to the principle of limited democracy.
            Thereafter, religion and economic distress continued to make life miserable for the Lowlanders. In
                    1606, when it appeared that prospects  to alleviate his plight
                    were remote, a call arrived for farmers from two Scotsmen who had obtained large property holdings
                    in Ulster with the stipulation that the lands were to be settled with British Protestants. The
                    invitation aroused enthusiasm and the plantation of Ulster began. Churches were established and the
                    new settlement received a puritanical and Presbyterian character.
            By 1684, the fields did not appear so green in 
                        Ireland
                     and the American colonies were considered for a future home. Favorable reports from the
                    first emigrants induced others to cross the Ocean and locate in a country where land was cheap and
                    soil fertile. Many became victims of the migration fever which resembled a contagious disease. As a
                    result there were five great waves of emigration. The first movement, 1717-1718, may be attributed
                    to years of drought and rack-renting; the second, 1725-1729 (itself so large that the English
                    Parliament became alarmed) to economic conditions; the third, 1740-1741, to a famine in 
                        Ireland
                    ; the fourth, 1754-1755, to effective propaganda from America and a terrible drought in
                    Ulster; and the fifth, 1771-1775, to extensive increases in rents and the eviction of many farmers
                    which aroused much ill feeling.
            Those who left Ulster were primarily Presbyterians and organized many churches in America. Their
                    major areas of settlement were in southeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    , and the Piedmont country of North and 
                        South Carolina
                    . They were regarded as "quicktempered, impetuous, inclined to work by fits and
                    starts, reckless, too much given to drinking. No contemporary observer praised them as model
                    farmers. Their interest in politics on the Provincial level was soon to become active, even
                    tempestuous; and their fame as Indian fighters was to become almost as notable as their reputation
                    for causing trouble with the Indians" (p. 191).
            The author has been successful in producing "a general work on the Scotch-Irish, showing the
                    gradual development of Lowland Scots into Ulstermen and the modification of these Ulstermen and
                    their institutions when they came ... to the American colonies in the eighteenth century"
                    (p. vi).
            The appendixes contain an excellent account of the name Scotch-Irish and a chronological list of
                    important events in Scottish history. Although explanatory notes appear throughout the book, it is
                    to be regretted that notes to sources follow the appendixes.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               The Department of War, 1781-1795. By Harry M. Ward. ([
                        Pittsburgh
                    ]: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xi, 287. Notes, appendixes, bibliography, index. $4.95.)
            Professor Ward has sought to trace the growth and development of the Department of War from its
                    inception in 1781 through the lean years of the Confederation to its vindication under the
                    Constitution. Historians often gloss over the military history of these years with remarks on the
                    mutinies of 1783, the tiny postwar Army, and the military weakness of the Union. Ward naturally
                    touches these points, but he also seeks to demonstrate that the Department of War, "the  only office of the central government continued under the same
                    head from the Confederation into the government under the Constitution" (p. vii), provided
                    the basic administrative link between the old and new orders. More accurately than any other agency
                    the War Department mirrored the dynamic transformation the Constitution wrought in the central
                    government.
            This thesis places Ward in opposition to the revisionist school of historians in regard to the
                    Confederation period. "Any idea," he writes, "that government functioned
                    effectively on a federal scale should be quickly dispelled" (p. 85). Shays'
                    Rebellion is his case in point. He believes it underscored a basic weakness of the Confederation.
                    Congress was "unwilling to declare that the state of insurrection existed when it most
                    clearly did, thus abrogating that power which is essential to national sovereignty" (p.
                    80). Congressional vacillation prevented the Secretary of War, Henry 
                        Knox
                    , from using his authority to protect the federal arsenal at 
                        Springfield
                    . By contrast, 
                        Knox
                    , who continued under the federal government with little change in his military duties,
                    later laid the groundwork for an effective military organization and saw the coercive powers of the
                    Constitution vindicated at Fallen Timbers and in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            
               The Department of War, 1781-1795 is something more than a dull recital of
                    administrative routine and something less than a comprehensive survey of national military policy.
                    It follows the activities of the two secretaries of war, Benjamin 
                        Lincoln
                     (1781-1783) and Henry 
                        Knox
                     (1785-1795), and their duties and preoccupations determine its scope. Except for the
                    period 1789-1791, when Knox stood high in the President's councils, neither man was greatly
                    involved in formulating higher policy. They made their major contributions as organizers and
                    administrators not as leaders. 
                        Lincoln
                    's chief concern was the administration of the Continental Army—the
                    routine matters of pay, recruiting, promotion, and the care of prisoners. The Indian problem, in
                    both its diplomatic and military phases, absorbed the greater part of 
                        Knox
                    's energies. By carefully tracing their activities Ward has gained valuable
                    insights into the genesis of the Union and the supporting role played by the department which, to
                    echo popular Army toasts of the 1780's, helped add "Cement to the Union"
                    and "A hoop to the barrel" (p. 41).
            Unfortunately numerous typographical errors, poor lithography, and the lack of a map of the Old
                    Northwest mar this excellent monograph.
            
                    University of Notre Dame
                
            Stephen T. Powers
         
         
            
               William Plumer of 
                            New Hampshire
                        , 1759-1850. By Lynn W. Turner. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1962. Pp. 366. Frontispiece, appendixes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Those interested in New 
                        England
                     history, or that of the 
                        United States
                     in the very early nineteenth century, owe a real debt to Dr. Turner for his biography
                    of William Plumer. To them should be added, in truth, those who take delight in the delineation of a
                    Yankee  "character," for whatever else Plumer
                    may have been—lawyer, politician, even statesman—he was certainly one of those
                    decided individuals so often placed in New 
                        England
                     by our national tradition but less often encountered. For the reviewer, who spent a
                    summer some time ago going through the voluminous Plumer papers in 
                        Concord
                     (alongside Dr. Turner but for a different purpose), the book is doubly welcome.
            William Plumer, somewhat mysteriously, has been rather ignored by historians; yet his life had great
                    interest, and his papers throw a great deal of light on what happened politically in his active
                    years. Possessed of an interest in writing, he put down in detail what went on around him, and then,
                    retiring from political life in 1820, he spent another twenty-five years telling what he knew about
                    his earlier associates and their deeds. All of this vast store of manuscripts has been used, and
                    well used, by Dr. Turner, who has also studied the fairly large amount of material by other writers
                    that bears on Plumer's story.
            Plumer himself was engaged in politics for nearly forty years. Selectman of Epping in 1783, at the
                    age of twenty-four, he went on to the state legislature and watched with disapproval the 
                        New Hampshire
                     equivalent of Shays' Rebellion. Serving as speaker of the House and as a
                    leader in the convention that drew up the constitution that still rules the state, he was in and out
                    of the legislature for a decade. As a leading Federalist, he was concerned over the new banks, the
                    troubles with 
                        France
                    , and the rising tide of Republicanism. Elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1802, he was a party to the New 
                        England
                     plans for breaking the Union in 1804, and his Memorandum of Proceedings in
                        the 
                            United States
                         Senate, 1803-1807 is one of the best records of what went on there in those
                    years. By the end of his term, rather like Senator John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, he had changed his party, and was henceforth to be a fervent Republican and a
                    very successful one. Four times governor of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , he illustrated the best of Republican liberalism. He supported the War of 1812 not for
                    land but for reasons of national pride. He tried to remake Dartmouth College because he had real
                    visions of the educational system needed in a democracy. He voted, as a presidential elector,
                    against Monroe in 1820 not to preserve 
                        Washington
                     as the only president unanimously elected, but because he distrusted 
                        Monroe
                    's republicanism.
            William Plumer, in brief, shows in his career how 
                        New Hampshire
                    , and how many people in the country, thought about and acted on the issues of his day.
                    Dr. Turner brings him to life, and in the process of restoring him to memory gives us a great deal
                    of new information about Plumer's period, illustrative even if not substantive. The author
                    does call Plumer stodgy, but this biography is proof to the contrary even though it underplays that
                    side of Plumer's character that could produce such vitriolic language as once to reduce a
                    political opponent to public tears. Turner has produced, by the excellent use of a very large amount
                    of material, a book that adds greatly to the literature of the period. The format of the volume is
                    unusually good, the bibliographical essay brief but excellent. The slips that a
                    "foreigner" makes in writing local history are of no consequence.
            
                    Dartmouth College
                
            Herbert W. Hill
         
         
         
            
               The Panic of 1819: Reactions and Policies. By M#2 N. Rothbard. 
                  
                            Columbia
                         Studies in the Social Sciences, Number 605. Edited by the Faculty of Political
                    Science of 
                        Columbia
                     University. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. vi, 261. Appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Although Rothbard gives brief consideration in this book to the background of the Panic of 1819, his
                    principal intrest is in both federal and state policies which dealt with the resulting depression.
                    As indicated in the Preface, he regards this panic as the first nation-wide crisis with
                    "strong hints of modern depressions" which "appeared to come mysteriously
                    from within the economic system itself." The initial chapter of the book affords a summary
                    view of economic life in the 
                        United States
                     during the years immediately following the War of 1812. The economic impact of the war
                    is perhaps overstated and seemingly at variance with the author's thesis that the panic and
                    ensuing depression resulted mainly from forces within the economic system. This chapter also
                    examines possible similarities between the depression which began in 1819 and modern depressions.
                    Rapid expansion and substantial speculation in banking, widespread and increasing speculation in
                    public land under the installment system, and dislocations in foreign trade are considered as
                    important factors causing the Panic of 1819.
            Three conclusions are implicitly and explicitly present throughout this study. First, it is indicated
                    that governmental policy, state and federal alike, was not based on a laissez-faire philosophy.
                    Second, the role of the states is regarded as especially significant in efforts to counter the
                    depression. Third, it is concluded that governmental reactions and policies, except for a protective
                    tariff, were not principally based on sectional or class cleavages. Rothbard is explicit and
                    detailed in describing federal and state efforts to alleviate the depression's impact.
                    Relief legislation for debtors was generally extended in one form or another in the states, and the
                    federal government was generous to numerous debtors who owed unpaid balances on land purchases. Most
                    of the attempts to use the monetary and banking system to combat the depression centered in the
                    states while the movement for an increase in the protective tariff mainly involved the federal
                    government. Both levels of government gave attention to internal improvements as a possible means
                    for ameliorating hard times.
            The scope and intent of Rothbard's study are commendable. The results, however, are less
                    satisfactory than might be desired. Though a considerable amount of primary research is evident, the
                    book rests mainly on secondary studies many of which are inadequate for the questions probed while
                    relevant studies of importance have been ignored. This book includes a number of factual errors and
                    its opinions are not always sufficiently and consistently supported. But the author, it seems to
                    this reviewer, does give convincing evidence that government was not wedded to laissez faire in 1819
                    and that both state and federal governments were much involved in formulating policies to counter or
                    end the depression. The thesis that such policies—except for the protective
                    tariff—had no discernible class or sectional basis seems inadequately substantiated.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               The Cholera Years: The 
                            United States
                         in 1832, 1849, and 1866. By Charles E. Rosenberg. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1962. Pp. x, 257. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $5.95.)
            This study is in three parts, each a self-sufficient section dealing with one of the three major
                    outbreaks of cholera on American soil which occurred in the years indicated and followed upon
                    preceding epidemics in Europe. This treatise, however, is not merely a history of cholera in this
                    country; actually, being an inquiry in social history, it presents a series of depictions, taken at
                    intervals of about a decade and a half, illustrative of the conditions of urban life and the
                    reactions of the people, clergy, medical profession, and governmental agencies to the onslaught of a
                    dread disease, one not understood at the time since it was not until 1883 that Robert Koch
                    discovered the Vibrio comma, the causative bacterium in cholera. The recitals are
                    centered largely on the happenings in one community, 
                        New York City
                    .
            Cholera was the classic epidemic disease of the nineteenth century as plague had been of the
                    fourteenth. It was a scourge so spectacular as not to be ignored; the symptoms came suddenly with
                    death often supervening in a day or even hours. Though the mortality was about 50 per cent, the
                    number of Americans who died of cholera was small compared with the number of those succumbing to
                    malaria and tuberculosis. It was not easy to forget a cholera inroad; though such epidemics were
                    transitory, they added an uncommon stimulus to the public health movement. Cholera could not have
                    thrived where filth and want did not already exist, and the pictures Rosenberg repeatedly draws of
                    the non-hygienic conditions then present in the American cities are indeed far from pretty ones.
            Thirty-four years are a short time, but within this period great changes took place in American
                    society. In 1832 most Americans regarded the 
                        United States
                     as a land of health, virtues, and rustic simplicity; cholera, they reassured
                    themselves, attacked only the filthy, the ignorant, and the profane. The pious, the clean, and the
                    ambitious of native descent had little to fear; only those newly come immigrant wretches crowded
                    into the squalid slums of the large cities—these last themselves excrescences on the
                    American scene—needed to despair. In clerical and lay opinion alike, pestilence was the
                    consequence of sin; God's punishment for transgression, and a visitation to be met by
                    fasting and prayer. American medicine itself was provincial and beset with isms. Few practitioners
                    believed cholera to be contagious, though all advocated cleanliness, personal and environmental, in
                    prophylaxis. By 1866 a more critical and empirical temper was in evidence throughout, and a
                    recognition attained generally that cholera was, in fact, the consequence of remediable faults in
                    sanitation. The 
                        London
                     physician, John Snow, had demonstrated that the disease was transmissible, being spread
                    through contaminated water supply. A Metropolitan Board of Health was established in 
                        New York City
                    , which agency by prompt action accomplished what seemed to be a miracle: in spite of
                    the gain in population, the number of deaths from cholera in 1866 was only one-tenth of that in
                    1849. This achievement constitutes a landmark in public health.
            
            The author is an assistant professor of history at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . His inquiry is fully documented, about half of his material having been gleaned from
                    contemporary newspapers and periodicals, and a fourth from medical sources. The work should have
                    wide appeal, falling as it does within the provinces of both history and medicine.
            
                    Inlow Clinic
                    
                  
                            Shelbyville
                        , Indiana
                
            William DePrez Inlow, M.D.
         
         
            
               By Sea and By River: The Naval History of the Civil War. By 
                        Bern
                     Anderson. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1962. Pp. xiv, 303, viii. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $5.95.)
            
               Halleck: 
                            Lincoln
                        's Chief of Staff. By Stephen E. Ambrose. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1962. Pp. vi, 226. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Naval war and military management are two subjects which are relatively neglected in Civil War
                    history. Writers influenced by popular demand have lingered too long over the land war's
                    exciting episodes and interesting characters. But in these books an admiral and a scholar attempt to
                    remedy this defect.
            
               
                        Bern
                     Anderson presents a readable summary of the action on the rivers and at sea. With few
                    scholarly trappings (no bibliography and only a handful of footnotes), the admiral recounts the
                    numerous battles within the context of the strategic planning. Although he purports to write the
                    naval history of the war, he devotes much more space to the Union side. While this is justifiable to
                    a certain degree, it still makes one wonder about the decision making in 
                        Richmond
                    ; but then, the Confederacy's secretary of navy did not leave a superb diary.
            Anderson does not accept some past historical judgments. For one, he disputes Frank L.
                    Owsley's theory that the blockade was not effective. Less convincing is his contention that
                    the Union's relations with 
                        England
                     were not particularly strained during the war. While they had little to do with the
                    navy, the events along the Canadian border in the last days of the war certainly pointed up the
                    tension in the diplomatic relations.
            Stephen Ambrose is much more scholarly in approach in his biography of 
                        Lincoln
                    's chief of staff. An embryonic military manager, a desk officer in a war later
                    made popular by the trials and antics of field soldiers, Halleck was a misunderstood and maligned
                    general. Because of the title of chief of staff, it is easy but wrong to make analogies between
                    Halleck and George C. Marshall for example. Indeed, the Civil War general did not even have a true
                    general staff of which he could be chief. Petty and vain, "Old Brains" had
                    difficulty dealing with people. An authority on military theory, he was no battle commander. As
                    general-in-chief, he chose not to expand the responsibilities of the office within the flexible
                    command system but relegated himself to the role of adviser. Later, when Grant succeeded him as
                    general-in-chief, he functioned at his best as a liaison officer between Grant and the President.
            
            The author accurately and objectively follows Halleck's wartime career. When the general is
                    wrong, Ambrose calls attention to his faults. After all, Halleck did relieve Grant following the
                    victory at Fort Donelson because of the latter's failure to do routine paper work. In the
                    field of military management, Ambrose describes Halleck's efforts as an
                    administrator—sending supplies here, moving troops there, and reorganizing the War
                    Department. While the author considers his subject a brilliant administrator, he does not explain or
                    analyze clearly his efforts. Questions arise in regard to his dealings with the bureau chiefs and as
                    to how he actually manipulated the men and material.
            Names troubled both writers. At one point, Anderson confuses Presidents Tyler and Pierce. Ambrose
                    refers to Generals John Sturgis and John A. Schofield when he means Samuel D. Sturgis and John M.
                    Schofield and incorrectly spells Alfred Vagts's name as Vaughts.
            The books vary in their contributions to Civil War historiography. The value of Anderson's
                    work is that it is a brief readable survey of the naval war. Ambrose does a service by rescuing
                    Halleck from the periphery (where he has been regarded as a sort of character actor in the
                    biographies of other Civil War figures) and placing him on his own stage by fitting him into the
                    general stream of American military history.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               
                
            Edward M. Coffman
         
         
            
               Mark Twain: Social Philosopher. By Louis J. Budd. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1962. Pp. x, 245. Illustrations, bibliographical note,
                    notes, index. $6.50.)
            This book records Mark Twain's development as social and political critic from youthful
                    Hannibal days, when Mr. Budd calls him the "Political Apprentice," to old age
                    when, as "The White Knight," he became an eminent authority on human affairs
                    generally. The development was uneven and incomplete, hampered by a failure to distinguish between
                    causes and symptoms, a too simple faith in material progress, an inability to free himself from
                    outworn traditions of the nineteenth century, and a settled conviction that money and property went
                    hand in hand with virtue.
            Nevertheless, as Mr. Budd demonstrates with copious examples, Mark Twain belongs, in general, with
                    upper-middle-class rebels and liberals. He called himself a mugwump, a moralist in disguise, and
                    admitted that he had the instincts of a reformer. Old-fashioned he may seem at times in his devotion
                    to laissez faire and the sterling righteousness of the Republican party and likewise curiously
                    myopic—as in his refusal to ally his good friend, Henry Rogers, with the financial
                    buccaneering of John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company—yet he was nearly
                    always pungent and provocative. If sometimes confused and wrongheaded, he was enraged by injustice,
                    and he spoke up. He protested savagely against tyrannical monarchy like that of Czarist Russia,
                    against Belgian ruthlessness in the Congo (for which we are paying at this moment), against European
                    imperialism and that of the 
                        United States
                     in the 
                        Philippines
                    , against economic and political restrictions  that
                    beset women in this country, against corrupt politicians and crooked election practices, and against
                    the exploitation of underdogs everywhere.
            
               The Gilded Age, A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, Huckleberry Finn,
                        The Mysterious Stranger, and others reiterate "Twain's lifelong
                    suspicion," Budd says, "that the mass of mankind is venal, doltish, feckless, and
                    tyrannical, that the damn fools make up a majority anywhere" (p. 54). For forty years Mark
                    Twain drubbed American society, government, and morals, and while he was about it cudgeled those of
                    the rest of the world as well. The world listened so docilely that he merited his title of
                    "self-appointed ambassador-at-large of the United State of America—without
                    salary" (p. 168).
            Much has been written about Mark Twain's social and political attitudes, but Mark Twain: Social Philosopher is the most comprehensive study of the subject that has
                    been made. Mr. Budd's treatment is thorough and detailed, supported by illuminating
                    analysis and plentiful documentation. He presents his material well in a forthright, readable style
                    that moves at a springy pace agreeably free from academic heavy-footedness. If the book gives a
                    somewhat distorted picture of Mark Twain as only a social critic and nothing
                    more—omitting the casual humor of the man being funny for the sake of fun—that
                    distortion is not the fault of the author, who has concentrated admirably upon his subject. He
                    concludes, justly: "Lifelong concern with society and its politics is vital to the Twain
                    that will endure" (p. 215).
            
                    Purdue University
                
            Paul Fatout
         
         
            
               The Progressive Years: The Spirit and Achievement of American Reform. Selected
                    and edited by Otis Pease. [American Epochs Series. Edited by Frank Freidel.] (
                        New York
                    : George Braziller, 1962. Pp. xiv, 496. Suggested readings. $8.50.)
            This handsome book is the third volume to appear in the American Epochs Series
                    devoted to pivotal periods in the American past as revealed in the writings of contemporaries who
                    helped to shape the various epochs. The decade and a half before World War I—the
                    progressive years—was unquestionably one of the most profoundly significant periods in
                    American history. It was preeminently an era of reform, of challenge to old habits and institutions
                    by the pervasive ideology of "progress," and of a remarkable unleashing of
                    energies that spent themselves in the confident endeavor to realize the promise of American life.
                    Professor Pease, of 
                        Stanford
                     University, attempts to illuminate these years through unified and substantial
                    selections from a dozen "writers and doers," men and women who "embodied
                    their age" (p. xiii). The selections are far-ranging, including, for example, Frederic C.
                    Howe on the city, Jane Addams on Hull-House, and Lawrence Veiller on the tenement house problem; 
                        Lincoln
                     Steffens on the struggle for self-government in 
                        Wisconsin
                    ; the reports of the federal commissions on industrial relations and country life;
                    Eugene V. Debs on unionism and socialism; Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson on national reform;
                    Walter Lippmann and William James on the possibilities of 
                    American society; and the incomparable Mr. Dooley's dissertations on such topics as
                    immigration and national housecleaning.
            In choosing to present unified selections from a few writers rather than brief excerpts from numerous
                    sources, the editor was forced to sacrifice a good deal of the scope and variety encompassed in the
                    progressive movement. One finds little in this volume, for instance, about prohibition, woman
                    suffrage, penal reform, the anticorporation movement, or efforts to democratize the political
                    process. The informed reader will note the relative neglect of progressivism as it manifested itself
                    on the state level and the inability of the editor within his framework to reveal much of the
                    élan that turned the ordinary American into a reformer during the progressive years. The
                    problem of selection is always difficult in a work of this kind, and success or failure in this
                    respect will depend to some extent upon the reader's predilections. Yet even when this is
                    conceded, the failure to show more adequately the character and extent of reform movements on the
                    state level weakens the volume. On the other hand, the editor offers new insights into the nature of
                    progressivism by focusing some attention on socialism and foreign policy.
            Furthermore, the writings reproduced here are more than random selections. They possess a unity of
                    theme that attests to the care and skill with which they were chosen and arranged, and this quality
                    of the work as a whole is enhanced by Professor Pease's perceptive introductory essay and
                    prefatory notes. The latter are immensely suggestive and their soundness of fact and interpretation
                    is not typified by the editor's observation in one place that Woodrow Wilson was the only
                    southerner since Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     to have occupied the White House (p. 343). Within the limits of its approach this is a
                    useful and illuminating anthology: the mind and spirit of the progressive spokesmen are evoked
                    clearly and forcefully.
            
                    Vanderbilt University
                
            Dewey W. Grantham, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Road to Normalcy: The Presidential Campaign and Election of 1920. By Wesley
                    M. Bagby. The Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political
                    Science, Series LXXX, Number 1. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins Press, 1962. Pp. 206, ix. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $4.50.)
            The early years of the twentieth century in the 
                        United States
                     are often remembered for the ascendancy of the progressive movement and for a growing
                    trend toward an idealistic foreign policy. The election of 1920 proclaimed that a halt had been
                    called to both of these developments, and the nation turned its face toward what was described as
                    normalcy. Professor Bagby, already the author of three articles on smaller aspects of the subject,
                    "describes the process and attempts to analyze the factors that contributed to these
                    momentous shifts in national policy" (p. 13). In so doing he focuses on political events
                    but touches on social, economic, and intellectual conditions in his opening and concluding
                    paragraphs.
            
            An introductory section sets the stage by reviewing the development of domestic progressivism and of
                    idealistic plans for international peace and by pointing out that World War I resulted in the
                    creation of "powerful countertrends" which brought about the withering of these
                    movements. The author begins his story with two chapters on preconvention politics in which he
                    inspects each major candidate's background, qualifications, and prospects for the
                    nomination. In the chapters on the national conventions the reader will find especially interesting
                    studies of Woodrow Wilson's active desire to receive the nomination for a third term, the
                    maneuverings during the Saturday afternoon recess before the last two ballots at the Republican
                    convention, and the "smoke-filled room." The nomination of Harding, the author
                    feels, does not need the conspiracy theme to explain it; "given the prevailing political
                    atmosphere of 1920, and the situation in the party, the nomination of Harding was a logical result
                    of the convention" (p. 98).
            The campaign and election bring the book to its conclusion. Here in one place are discussed not only
                    the differing interpretations of the two parties but also the shifting emphases within each party.
                    Nevertheless, by treating the major issues separately, the author makes the role of each in the
                    outcome of the election as easily understandable as it is likely to be made while still giving
                    reasonable consideration to the complexity of the situation. The election, he concludes, merely
                    confirmed what had already taken place: the war had created a "social climate which neither
                    produced nor supported progressive leaders" (p. 167). Peace and time would be needed to
                    arouse once again the movement for humanitarian reform.
            
               The Road to Normalcy reflects extensive use of newspapers, the 
                        New York
                     papers in particular, but there has also been considerable work in collections of the
                    private papers of the men involved as well as in published memoirs, secondary works, and articles.
                    The book is well organized and is generally very well written, although minor errors appear on
                    occasion as, for example, the wrong middle initial for Thomas Riley Marshall (p. 112). It is a work
                    which seeks primarily neither to condemn nor to approve; it seeks to understand. The result is a
                    significant illumination of the path the 
                        United States
                     took in its journey to normalcy.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Walden S. Freeman
         
         
            
               Herbert Hoover and Economic Diplomacy: Department of Commerce Policy, 1921-1928.
                    By Joseph Brandes. Foreward by Lewis Strauss. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xiv, 237. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $4.50.)
            Many books have been written about Herbert Hoover. Much has been written about his presidency, and
                    his role as war-relief administrator, but, strangely, relatively little has been written about him
                    as secretary of commerce and still less about the secretary's work in economic diplomacy.
                    Joseph Brandes' Herbert Hoover and Economic Diplomacy fills this gap.
                    During the years 1921 to 1928 Hoover built the comparatively young Department of Commerce into one
                    of the most influential forces in the federal government.
            
            The author succeeds in carrying out his announced purpose of analyzing "the development and
                    motivation of Hoover's economic policies as a major factor shaping America's
                    position in the post-war world" (p. ix). By focusing on Hoover as the "Depression
                    President," the author feels, justifiably in this reviewer's opinion, that
                    historians have tended to underestimate Secretary Hoover's influence on such major problems
                    as war debts, reparations, the tariff, foreign loans, and foreign monopolization of essential raw
                    materials.
            The first two chapters of the book deal with the development of the Department of Commerce under the
                    new secretary and the stature of Hoover as a person and as a cabinet member in the early twenties.
            Chapter III deals with the clashes and conflicts between the departments of Commerce and State over
                    the question of who should promote foreign trade. The author shows how Hoover made his
                    department's Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce a very important agency for the
                    promotion of American trade and thereby produced jealousies in, and friction with, the State
                    Department.
            In chapters IV to VII the author deals with Hoover's fight against foreign efforts to
                    maintain high prices through monopoly on such needed raw materials as British rubber, Brazilian
                    coffee, and Franco-
                        German
                     potash. Only partially successful, Hoover was greatly criticized by some Americans and
                    by the foreign peoples involved, who felt they had as much right to protect their prices as did the 
                        United States
                     with its high protective tariff or its Webb-Pomerene Act (1918). But Hoover could not
                    see the connection, and he defended American tariff portectionism as essential to our prosperity.
            Federal control of American loans and investments abroad is the theme of the last three chapters. The
                    author makes a worth-while contribution here in pointing out the important part which the secretary
                    of commerce played in our foreign investment and loan policy in the 1920's. While
                    encouraging American private investment abroad, Hoover, contrary to common misconceptions in the
                    1920's and 1930's' "stood out as favoring definite and firm
                    standards to assure the 'security and reproductive character' of each
                    loan" (p. 153). Brandes shows that others in the Harding and Coolidge administrations were
                    more responsible for the reckless foreign lending policy of that period than was Hoover. With regard
                    to the war debts owed the 
                        United States
                    , Hoover at first took a liberal position and favored the cancellation of pre-Armistice
                    obligations. Later he favored the repayment of the total allied debt. He also favored the
                    administration policy of not permitting the matter of war debts to be tied up with the question of 
                        German
                     reparations.
            In this reviewer's judgment this work is based on solid research. Perhaps a bit more
                    repetitious than necessary in a few places, the book nevertheless constitutes a scholarly, objective
                    study of Hoover's years as secretary of commerce. The bibliography and footnotes indicate a
                    wide use of source materials. Factual errors and slips noted were too few and too minor to mention,
                    except that the statement (p. 38) about the provisions of the immigration acts of the
                    1920's may be a bit misleading. An error in the page citations in the index is called to
                    the reader's attention by a note attached to the book.
            
                    
                  
                            Goshen
                         College
                
            Willard H. Smith
         
         
         
            
               Public Opinion and Congressional Elections. Edited by William N. McPhee and
                    William A. Glaser. (
                        New York
                    : Free Press of Glencoe, 1962. Pp. viii, 326. Notes, tables, graphs, appendixes,
                    bibliography, indexes. $5.95.)
            
               The Great Debates: Background—Perspective—Effects. Edited
                    by 
                        Sidney
                     Kraus. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1962. Pp. 439. Illustrations, notes, charts, tables, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Public skepticism of the operations and product of the pollsters was matched by the scorn of most
                    segments of the academic community after the debacle of the Literary
                    Digest's presidential poll in 1936. President Harry Truman's fantastic
                    victory over Thomas Dewey in 1948 seemed to write finis to the pretensions of the predictors of
                    political behavior. The decade of the 1950's has, however, seen remarkable progress in the
                    development of improved techniques in behavioral studies. Political party managers at all levels
                    seemingly have gone overboard in placing reliance on the services of "opinion research
                    bureaus," both commercial and academic. Scholars from several other of the social sciences
                    such as sociologists, psychologists, and statisticians have joined the search that had been
                    initiated largely by political scientists.
            Members of the historical guild generally have stood outside the gates while this attack by the
                    diverse skills and knowledge of numerous disciplines has been probing the myths, realities, and
                    contradictions of the seemingly unpredictable animal known as the American voter. This reticence may
                    be understandable, since historians seldom are blessed with the types of data about the past which
                    are the concern of analysts of contemporary political trends. Yet, it is high time that the
                    interpreters of the past became acquainted with the results to date of the continuing studies of
                    current political behavior. This is an imperative, because such studies will themselves be
                    "evidence of our times" for historians in the future and also will serve as a
                    protective device to enable them to avoid the error of repeating the traditional mistaken guesses as
                    to the whys of past political behavior.
            At first glance the two books under review might be expected to throw some light on the current
                    problems, techniques, and product of this new breed of social scientists concerned with the voting
                    habits of Americans. The neophyte, however, may well be appalled and confused by the array of
                    formulae, graphs, charts, tables, technical language, and synthetic theory presented in the first
                    volume edited by McPhee and Glaser. This study is composed of twelve essays which almost seem
                    designed as an instructional operations handbook for specialist practitioners in the field. The
                    basic raw data was obtained by regional surveys using a multiple interview technique during the
                    mid-term election campaign of 1950 in the states of 
                  Colorado, Washington, Iowa
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                    . This data subsequently was deposited at 
                        Columbia
                     University. There, under the benign guidance of such pioneers as Paul Lazarsfeld and
                    Bernard Berelson, they were used to develop diverse theoretical contributions to the study of public
                    opinion and attitude formation. After nearly a decade of continuous processing, with financial
                    assistance from a foundation, and after combing by dedicated disciples, the volume under review was
                    published.
            
            The end result of this concentration of intellects on very limited data (now long since cold) is
                    impressive to say the least. The inquiring non-specialist student of modern society will here find
                    learned discussions of the problems of information reduction, synthetic theory, magnitude,
                    substance, turnout at elections, the coat-tails phenomenon, and attitude consistency. The only
                    analysis of real service to such scholars, however, is contained in the chapter on "The
                    Independent Voter." All the glamour and respect usually accorded to this species is
                    stripped away to reveal a political dolt, an idiot in the Greek sense, who rarely votes at all and
                    never votes from politically rational motives. To those readers whose spirited search for
                    enlightenment on political behavior is able to survive the gobbledegook of this study, it is
                    suggested that they turn instead to other publications designed for the common garden-variety
                    egghead. Two such might be Paul F. Lazarsfeld, Bernard Berelson, and Hazel Gaudet, The
                        Peoples' Choice (1944) and Angus 
                        Campbell
                    , Philip E. Converse, Warren E. Miller, and Donald E. Stokes, The American
                        Voter (1960).
            By contrast, perusing, analyzing, and commenting on the second volume, edited by 
                        Sidney
                     Kraus, is a pleasant experience. The editor is a member of the Department of Radio and
                    Television at Indiana University and seems to have enjoyed the assistance of that staff group as
                    well as the Radio and Television Service of the same institution. This is a book that just had to be
                    put together by someone. Since it is estimated that as high as 80 per cent of the adult population
                    of the 
                        United States
                     saw at least one of the Kennedy-Nixon television debates of 1960 and nearly 55 per cent
                    witnessed all four of the encounters, it is apparent that this novel series of confrontations by
                    candidates for the highest office was a significant, if somewhat imponderable, influence in the
                    campaign. This study contains eighteen essays (six by joint authors), with chapters from the pens of
                    Harold Lasswell, Samuel Lubell, network executives, and the directors of communications or public
                    opinion research at the universities of 
                  Pennsylvania, Iowa, Wisconsin
               , Indiana, Michigan State, 
                  Stanford, Chicago
               ,
                    and 
                        New York
                    . It summarizes the results of thirty-one separate research studies of voter reaction to
                    the debates and concludes with the texts of the debates.
            It is difficult to discover any significant aspect of this unique addition to American political
                    tradition which has not been covered by this publication. The Introduction by Harold Lasswell is a
                    masterpiece as might be expected. The historical survey of broadcasting in presidential campaigns
                    and the discussion of the restraining influence of Section 315 of the Federal Communications Act
                    with its "equal time" requirement provide the setting. The temporary suspension of
                    Section 315, for the 1960 presidential campaign only, was not achieved by congressional resolution
                    until late August, 1960. Well-written essays catalogue the intriguing details of the ensuing round
                    of conferences by representatives of the principals and also the eventual ground rules. In a
                    masterful chapter entitled "Production Diary of the Debates," the studio designs,
                    lighting, and even clothing arrangements are outlined.
            The manuscript of this volume was completed by December 1961, just thirteen months after the election
                    of 1960; thus it does not claim to be based on the total historical record. But future historians of
                    American political history will be required to use this study and others  like it as a significant and pertinent source. It may never be decided
                    whether these confrontations were "Great," or even whether they were
                    "Debates." Partisans will continue to discuss for many months whether
                    "Kennedy won" or "Nixon lost," but all serious students of the
                    behavior of American voters in our current society will be grateful for the availability of this
                    fine study.
            
                    Harpur College at Binghamton State University of 
                            New York
                        
               
                
            Albert V. House
         
         
            Western History Association
            The Western History Association was formally established on October 11, 1962, at the Second
                    Conference on the History of Western America held at 
                  Denver, Colorado
               . The purpose
                    of the association, according to its constitution, is "to promote the study of the American
                    West in all its varied aspects." The Third Conference on the History of Western America
                    will meet at Salt Lake City, 
                        Utah
                    , October 17-19, 1963. At this meeting officials of the association expect to announce
                    the establishment of a scholarly quarterly journal devoted to western history in the broad context
                    suggested above. After the Salt Lake conference, annual dues will be $7.50. Until that
                    time, persons wishing to become charter members of the Western History Association
                    may do so by sending $2 to Secretary-Treasurer John Porter Bloom, 228 Slade Run Drive,
                    Falls Church, 
                        Virginia
                    , before October 17. Professor Ray Allen Billington of Northwestern
                    University is president of the new association and Professor Oscar O. Winther of Indiana University
                    is its vice-president.
         
         
            Historical Materials Concerning Paul V. McNutt Desired
            Professor I. George Blake of 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, is gathering material for a biography of Paul V. McNutt. Dr. Blake would
                    appreciate information about letters, diaries, or unpublished material of any kind concerning Paul
                    V. McNutt not already on deposit in some well-known library. Professor Blake recently received a
                    sabbatical from 
                        Franklin
                     College for the second semester, 1962-1963, to pursue his study of McNutt.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Rooted in Hope: The Story of the Dominican Sisters of Racine, 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By Sister Mary Hortense Kohler, O. P. (
                        Milwaukee
                    , Wis.: Bruce Publishing Company, 1962. Pp. xii, 328. Frontispiece, critical notes,
                    index. $5.00.) This is a history of the Congregation of St. Catherine of Siena, founded
                    in Racine, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , in 1862 by sisters from the Holy Cross Convent of Regensburg, Bavaria. Sister Mary
                    Hortense, who has an A.M. degree in history from Marquette University, tells the story of the
                    congregation's growth from seven to seven hundred sisters. By using the complete archives
                    in St. Catherine's Convent, she traces the work of the sisters beginning with two parish
                    schools in Racine to several other places in 
                  Wisconsin,
                            Michigan
               , and New 
                        Mexico
                    . A very detailed account is provided of the founding of schools and the personnel
                    assigned to various institutions and a great deal of biographical information is given about the
                    prioresses and chaplains who directed the work of the sisters. This book, therefore, will be of
                    value to the sisters and to the parishes and dioceses concerned. Since Sister Mary Hortense
                    describes the sisters' spiritual life, the book should also be a source of inspiration. As
                    a contribution to American history, however, it is not of general value since it only incidentally
                    ties its theme into the history of Wisconsin and does not even integrate its story into that of the
                    Catholic church or of education in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    MacMurray College
                
            Walter B. Hendrickson
            
               The Arkites and Other Pioneer Natural History Organizations of 
                            Cleveland
                        . By Walter B. Hendrickson. Makers of 
                            Cleveland
                         Series, Number 1. (
                  Cleveland,
                            Ohio
               : The Press of Western Reserve
                    University, 1962. Pp. vii, 57. Illustrations, notes. $3.50.) This modest but useful
                    volume recounts historical and scientific information about the Arkites and other natural history
                    organizations of 
                        Cleveland
                     from the 1830's to the present. In closing the book Hendrickson observes:
                    "It is remarkable that 
                        Cleveland
                     should have had, almost 130 years ago, when it was still a small village, a group of
                    men so devoted to study and scientific investigations. From their modest but enthusiastic beginnings
                    sprang the magnificent $2,000,000 Museum of Natural History which has been so signal an
                    addition to the University Circle group of institutions. The amateur ardor of the Arkites has been
                    replaced by professional scholars; their rather exclusive rendezvous has been replaced by a
                    magnificent public museum through which pass more than a thousand people every day, mostly children,
                    linked to the old Arkites by the common bond of an eager desire to learn" (p. 43).
                    Professor Hendrickson of MacMurray College has long been interested in the founding and development
                    of academies of science in the Middle West during the nineteenth century.
            
               The Middle West: A Study of Progress. By 
                        Sidney
                     Glazer. (
                        New York
                    : Bookman Associates, 1962. Pp. 135. List of suggested readings, index.
                    $3.50.) This readable essay is quite perceptive in various of its  comments about the historical development of the Middle West. 
                        Sidney
                     Glazer, well aware that nature has been especially kind to the Middle West (p. 14),
                    stresses the continued significance of geographical factors in the region's development and
                    the great importance of the wide diffusion of land ownership within the area. He indicates that the
                    nationalism of the Middle West has significantly exceeded its regionalism. The phenomenal economic,
                    social, and political growth of the area is sketched with an emphasis on the impact of urbanization,
                    industrialization, and changes in transportation. The Middle West here discussed includes the Old
                    Northwest, 
                  Iowa, Minnesota, Kansas, Nebraska
               , and the Dakotas. Although useful to students and
                    general readers in obtaining important facts and concepts about the area, this essay unfortunately
                    is marred by both factual errors and dubious conclusions. The 
                        United States
                    , for example, did not acquire land "west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    " in 1783 (p. 21), and "William Harrison" was not a
                    Republican president in the late 1880's (p. 109). Glazer's statements that the
                    American colonists gave "unstinting support in men and money to their Mother
                    Country" during the French and Indian War (p. 18) and his assertion that militant
                    abolitionists "had large followings in the Midwestern states" (p. 96) are
                    conclusions of dubious validity.
            [The Kothe Family.] By William Kothe. Translated by Herman W. Kothe. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Translator, 1961.] Pp. xvii, 74. Frontispiece, genealogical table.) A manuscript,
                    written in 
                        German
                     by William Kothe (1822-1896) in his later years, has been translated and privately
                    published by his grandson, Herman T. Kothe, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This account consists largely of genealogical material and miscellaneous personal
                    items about members of the Kothe family in 
                        Germany
                     and the 
                        United States
                     during the nineteenth century. Some social and economic history is included since
                    members of the family farmed near 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, and developed varied business interests in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As in the case of numerous Hoosier families of 
                        German
                     origin, the 
                        German
                     Revolution of 1848 was a factor in bringing the Kothe family to Indiana. Since the
                    Germans have long been the most numerous and most important non-English element in the state, it is
                    very unfortunate that so little has been published about their life in Indiana.
            
               Travelogue of Friedrich Fischer (1820-1898). Translated by Louise Schneider.
                    (Webster Groves, Mo.: [The Translator], 1962. Pp. 47. Map, glossary, genealogical table.
                    Paperbound.) This booklet is a translation of Friedrich Fischer's manuscript account of his
                    travels from his native Wiesbaden, 
                        Germany
                    , through various parts of the Balkans and Near East, 1839-1848. His observations on
                    life in 
                  Hungary, Egypt
               , and the Holy Land are informative and interesting. According to the
                    booklet's title page, Friedrich Fischer settled in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, in 1849.
            
               The Personal Narrative of James O. Pattie. Unabridged reprint of 1831 edition. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1962. Pp. xiii, 269. Map, appendixes. Paperbound,
                    $2.35.) James Ohio Pattie's narrative was originally published at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1831 by Timothy Flint.  It describes briefly the
                    migration of the Pattie family from Virginia to Kentucky some years before the birth of the
                    narrator. But the book is principally concerned with the adventures, sacrifices, and wanderings of
                    James and his father until the time of the latter's death. These travels took them from
                    Missouri to the Southwest and 
                        Mexico
                     during several years in the 1820's. Although the degree of reliability of the
                    narrative remains uncertain, the work offers an early illustration of that type of
                    hunter-explorer-wanderer who moved from Kentucky to Missouri and thence to points west. Timothy
                    Flint's brief Preface to the original 1831 edition of Pattie's narrative reveals
                    much information about Flint, himself an important pioneer editor, novelist, and historian of the
                    Middle West who also had some experience and considerable interest in the region west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            
               Uncle Tom's Cabin: Or, Life among the Lowly. By Harriet Beecher Stowe.
                    Edited by Kenneth S. Lynn. The John 
                            Harvard
                         Library. Edited by Howard Mumford Jones. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: The Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. xxviii, 460. Chronology, illustration. $5.00.) A
                    new edition of Uncle Tom's Cabin is timely, especially since 1963 is the
                    centennial of the Emancipation Proclamation. In this edition Professor Lynn offers a thoughtful
                    Introduction of about twenty pages, of which four concern various editions of the text which have
                    appeared; a one-page chronology of Mrs. Stowe's life; and occasional editorial comment. For
                    the most part, however, Lynn presents the text and lets it speak for itself. According to him:
                    "Those critics who label Uncle Tom's Cabin good propaganda but
                    bad art simply cannot have given sufficient time to the novel to meet its inhabitants. If they
                    should ever linger over it long enough to take in the shrewdness, the energy, the truly Balzacian
                    variousness of Mrs. Stowe's characterizations, they would surely cease to perpetuate one of
                    the most unjust clichés in all of American criticism" (p. xi). After rereading
                    the book this reviewer agrees that historians at least have been too prone to perpetuate these
                    unjust clichés.
            
               Abe 
                            Lincoln
                         of Pigeon Creek: Or, Abe Grew Tall. A Play in Three Acts. Adapted by William
                    E. Wilson. Southeastern Conference Edition. (Anchorage, Ky.: The Children's Theatre Press,
                    1962. Pp. 77. Paper-bound, $1.50.) This special edition of Abe 
                            Lincoln
                         of Pigeon Creek was prepared for The Children's Theatre Press,
                    Anchorage, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Adapted by Professor Wilson from his novel of the same title, the play concerns 
                        Lincoln
                    's boyhood in Indiana and offers an interpretation of young Abe as well as of
                    persons and factors which influenced him during his Indiana years (1816-1830). The play is suitable
                    for either adult or teen-age audiences.
            
               The Fur Trade in 
                            Canada
                        : An Introduction to Canadian Economic History. By Harold A. Innis. Based on
                    revised edition prepared by S. D. Clark and W. T. Easterbrook. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1962. Pp. xv, 446. Map, notes, appendix, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $1.95.) Innis' The Fur Trade in 
                            Canada
                        
                has been widely recognized as a valuable study since its first publication in
                    1930. Moreover,  because the early history of the American Middle
                    West is inextricably involved with that of 
                        Canada
                    , at least before 1815, this book has also been of great use to students of the Middle
                    West. The text here presented is that of the 1956 revision.
            
               Our Landed Heritage: The Public Domain, 1776-1936. By Roy M. Robbins. Reprint. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1962. Pp. x, 450. Notes, maps, illustrations, graphs,
                    bibliography, index. Paper-bound, $1.95.) This book originally appeared in 1942 when its
                    author was a member of the Department of History at 
                        Butler
                     University. Since then, Our Landed Heritage has been widely used as a
                    leading reference work about the federal domain. It is an appropriate addition to the series of Bison Books published by the University of Nebraska Press.
            
               Early Maps of North America. By Robert M. Lunny. (
                        Newark
                    : 
                        New Jersey
                     Historical Society, 1961. Pp. 48. Maps. Paperbound, $1.85.) This small
                    volume is the result of a cooperative effort between the 
                        New Jersey
                     Historical Society and the map-making firm of C. S. Hammond & Company.
                    Beginning with Mercator's map of the world (1538), Early Maps of North
                    America contains about two dozen notable maps including Castillo's map of the Gulf of 
                        California
                     (1541), Champlain's map of New 
                        England
                     (1607), Lewis Evans' map of the middle British colonies (1758), William
                    Faden's map of 
                        New Jersey
                     (1778), and John 
                        Mitchell
                    's map of British and French dominions in North America (1755). Helpful
                    commentary is given about these and other maps and their makers. Although this publication is
                    useful, its maps are so small that they are generally difficult to read and interpret. But the 
                        New Jersey
                     Historical Society and the 
                        Hammond
                     Company are to be commended for contributing these reproductions of maps and the
                    related commentary.
            
               American Espansion: A Book of Maps. By Randall D. Sale and Edwin D. Karn.
                    (Homewood, Ill.: Dorsey Press, 1962. Pp. 27. Maps, table. Paperbound, $1.50.) According
                    to the Introduction: "This series of maps is designed to illustrate that process of land
                    acquisition, exploration, and occupation from nationhood to the twentieth century. . . . A map for
                    each decade from 1790 through 1900 makes it possible to present this data sequentially and adjacent
                    maps facilitate ready comparison. The accompanying text offers a summary of some of the data
                    presented graphically by each map." This work, with its dozen maps and related commentary,
                    achieves its stated purposes. The maps should be especially useful to students, graduate as well as
                    undergraduate. 
                        Vernon
                     Carstensen of the Department of History at the University of Wisconsin collaborated
                    with Sale and Karn in the preparation of the maps and explanatory text.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
