
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 076, Issue 3, pages 161-284. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:076+issue:3+year:1980&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana: Robert Owen's Seedbed for Utopia
            Donald F. Carmony and Josephine M. Elliott⋆
            
            The Owenite community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, was conceived in the imaginative mind and generous heart of Robert Owen. Born
                    in Newtown, 
                        Wales
                    , in 1771, Owen was the son of an ironmonger (hardware merchant) and saddler. He
                    obtained only a few years of schooling and early became an apprentice to a draper (dealer in cloth
                    and drygoods). At the age of ten he left home and was employed in this business at 
                        London
                    .1
            
            About 1788 Owen arrived at 
                  Manchester, England
               , in the heart of a growing manufacturing center.
                    After a short time as an employee in the drygoods business, he and a partner, using borrowed
                    capital, began the manufacture of cotton-spinning machinery and also engaged in the spinning of
                    cotton. While a 
                  
                     ⋆ Donald F. Carmony, professor emeritus of history, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , prepared the text of the following article. Josephine M. Elliott, archivist
                            emeritus, Indiana State University, 
                                Evansville
                            , collected the pictures and wrote the captions and text accompanying them.
                  
                     1 The basic facts and ideas concerning Robert Owen and his career
                            before he bought 
                                New Harmony
                             in 1825 are principally based on J. F. C. Harrison, Quest for the
                                New Moral World: Robert Owen and the Owenites in Britain and America (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 1-16, 22-33, 51-58, 103-106, 139-63. Similar information about this
                            formative period of Owen's life can be found in Arthur Eugene Bestor, Jr., Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian and Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism
                                in America, 1663-1829 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1950), 60-84, 92-101; George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 43-68; William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent: The
                                Story of 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1964), 95-104. The detailed and standard biography of Robert Owen is
                            Frank Podmore, Robert Owen: A Biography (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1907). Harrison's volume is especially helpful in explaining and
                            interpreting Owen's career and views to 1825, but this scholarly study gives only
                            modest attention to the Owenite community at 
                                New Harmony
                            . Bestor, Lockwood, and Wilson present comprehensive views regarding both
                            Owen's early career and the Owenite community on the Wabash
                            River. Bestor also provides a scholarly overview of the development of communal
                            societies in the 
                                United States
                            . Lockwood is useful for his broad treatment and substantial use of quoted
                            material from contemporary sources, but he is short on historical context and too laudatory
                            concerning cultural contributions of the Owenites.
               
                     resident of 
                        Manchester
                    , Owen participated in the cultural life of the community. By the 1790s he was a
                    successful manufacturer.
            In 1800 the rising young industrialist, not yet thirty years of age, moved to New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    . During the preceding year Owen and various 
                        Manchester
                     partners had purchased the New Lanark spinning mills of David Dale, and Owen had fallen
                    in love with and married Dale's daughter, Anne Caroline. Owen remained at New Lanark until
                    1824 when he sailed for America to decide whether to purchase 
                        New Harmony
                    . This quarter century was an important period for Owen, personally, intellectually, and
                    economically. During these years eight children were born to Robert and Caroline Owen, five of
                    whom—Robert Dale, David Dale, William, Richard, and Jane Dale—became residents
                    of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Owen was the manager and principal partner in the New Lanark mills, which employed about 1,400 to
                    1,500 persons, more than any other cotton-spinning establishment in Great Britain. As was common in
                    such mills, the workers were largely women and children. Although children as young as ten were
                    employed, Owen preferred not to hire those under twelve. For most of the New Lanark period the work
                    day included about thirteen hours at the mills, with a half hour off for breakfast and
                    three-quarters of an hour for the noon meal. During the late 1810s and early 1820s, however, the
                    time at the mills was reduced to approximately twelve hours.
            Wages were low, even compared to other mills, but employees received benefits much above those
                    normally available. New Lanark was a small company town located in a rural setting. Workers could
                    buy food, clothing, and other articles at cost from the company store. Children were urged to attend
                    the local schools, only a nominal charge being required therefor. Free medical services and space
                    for gardens were provided as well as social and recreational facilities. Improved housing was
                    available at a modest price. Because of these and related social welfare experiments, New Lanark
                    attracted thousands of visitors who often commended Owen for his achievements in extending benefits
                    to employees while operating the mills at a profit.
            Owen's accomplishments at New Lanark were substantial. And while he implemented reforms in
                    the mills, he also changed his ideas about man and society. He sought to improve the condition of
                    laborers and their families by securing shorter hours and better working conditions through
                    legislation by  Parliament. These efforts proved frustrating and
                    largely fruitless. During the decade beginning about 1815 Owen became convinced that society itself
                    was in need of drastic reformation. He concluded that marriage, the church, and the institution of
                    private property were roadblocks to the establishment of a new society based on a new moral order.
                    Owen also concluded that an individual's beliefs and character were determined for him through his environment and not by him through his personal
                    endeavors alone. Man could thus be improved and elevated by combining a proper environment with a
                    suitable educational program.
            New Lanark's modest size, its sense of community, and its rural atmosphere appealed to Owen.
                    In these respects the Scottish town served as a model of the kind of small communities that the
                    industrialist wished to establish in his efforts to usher in a new and reformed society. Because of
                    the Old World's long-established social customs and traditions, however, Owen decided that
                    New Lanark was not an appropriate place to test his ideas. He was interested, then, when he learned
                    that the Harmonist village at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, with its buildings, manufacturing and commerical shops, general store, and
                    farms, was for sale.
            In the meantime, Father George Rapp and roughly one thousand Germans had established a close-knit
                    religious community at 
                        New Harmony
                    . The Harmony Society, as Rapp and his disciples called themselves, had moved to the
                    lower 
                        Wabash
                     in 1814. Previous thereto they had experienced about a decade in communal living at
                    Harmony near 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Despite the severe and prolonged Depression of 1819, the Harmonists continued to
                    prosper, but by 1824 they decided to return to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The Harmonists commissioned Richard Flower, one of the leaders of an English
                    settlement across the 
                        Wabash
                     at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , to sell their village, its manufactories, farms, and buildings.2
            
            
               
                  2 For an illustrated and scholarly overview regarding the Harmonists at 
                            New Harmony
                         see Donald E. Pitzer and Josephine M. Elliott, "
                            New Harmony
                        's First Utopians, 1814-1824," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXV (September, 1979), 255-300. A comprehensive and scholarly account of the
                        Harmonists is found in Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            1785-1847 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1965), 141-301. Concerning Richard Flower as an agent to sell 
                            New Harmony
                         for the Harmonists see pages 201, 269, 290-98 in Arndt's volume. Pages
                        294-96 contain an advertisement describing in detail what the Harmonists had for sale. The
                        Harmonists at times called their village Harmony, at other times 
                            New Harmony
                        . Since it is usually known as 
                            New Harmony
                         under the Owenites, in this article this name has been used for the village whether
                        under Harmonist or Owenite control.
            
            
            In August of 1824 Flower met Owen at New Lanark to discuss the industrialist's possible
                    purchase of 
                        New Harmony
                    .3 Flower was surprised at Owen's immediate interest,
                    finding it difficult to believe that the Scotsman would abandon his comfortable status and
                    profitable mills for an idealistic experiment on a distant continent which he had never visited.
                    Owen was already acquainted with the Harmonist community, however, for in 1820 he had written Father
                    Rapp seeking additional information about it.4 By early September Owen was
                    making plans to visit 
                        New Harmony
                    , and on October 2 he, son William, and Captain Donald Macdonald sailed from Liverpool.
                    Robert Dale, the oldest son, was left in charge of the New Lanark mills.
            During the approximately five weeks that the Owen party sailed the Atlantic, the senior Owen spent
                    much time explaining his plans for the reformation of society, beginning with a model community such
                    as might be established at 
                        New Harmony
                    . At 
                  New York, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        Washington
                     he had discussions with important leaders in business, culture, and politics, including
                    President James 
                        Monroe
                    . In passing through the mountains of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Owen met General Andrew Jackson, then a rival of John Quincy Adams for the as yet
                    unresolved presidential election of 1824. At 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Owen met Father Rapp, who conducted the philanthropist and others of his party through
                    nearby Economy, the village that the Harmonists were founding as their second community in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     the Owen party descended the 
                        Ohio
                     by steamboat, then a recent innovation in water travel, to 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Indiana. Proceeding via wagon, Owen arrived at 
                        New Harmony
                     on December 16.
            Owen remained in 
                        New Harmony
                     and the surrounding area until January 3, 1825. Frederick Rapp, the adopted son of
                    Father Rapp and the person who played perhaps the largest role in the financial affairs of the
                    Harmonists, showed the prospective purchaser the manufacturing establishments, community buildings,
                    dwellings, and nearby countryside. Christ- 
                  
                     3 The ensuing discussion about Owen's trip to America to
                            purchase 
                                New Harmony
                             is based mainly on Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 101-14. For
                            informative accounts by persons who accompanied Owen on his trip to America see Caroline
                            Dale Snedeker, ed., The Diaries Of Donald Macdonald, 1824-1826 (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), 159-265; Joel W. Hiatt, ed., Diary of William Owen from
                                November 10, 1824, to April 20, 1825 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            IV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906), 7-93.
                  
                     4 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            226-27, has a copy of Owen's letter to Father Rapp.
               
                     mas was spent at Albion with Richard Flower. On January 1 Owen
                    told William that he had decided to purchase 
                        New Harmony
                    , but the terms were not mutually agreed to until two days later. Some details of the
                    purchase are not altogether certain, but Owen apparently bought the town and approximately twenty
                    thousand acres of land for about $125,000. Historian Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., estimates
                    that the town had approximately 180 log, frame, and brick structures, embracing public buildings,
                    manufacturing establishments, shops, and housing for about seven hundred individuals. Apparently,
                    however, only about two thousand acres of the vast amount of land purchased by Owen had been adapted
                    to farms and pastures.5 For a better understanding of the subsequent history of
                    the Owenite community, it is important to emphasize that Owen invested his own
                    money in its purchase. This fact, plus his willingness to forego comfortable and prosperous
                    circumstances in 
                        Scotland
                    , is convincing evidence of the philanthropist's commitment to his efforts to
                    usher in a new society.
            Leaving William at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Owen returned eastward for further, and triumphal, visits to 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Washington
                    . At the capital city during February and March he twice spoke in the hall of the House
                    of Representatives. He had discussions with members of Congress and such prominent Americans as
                    outgoing President Monroe and incoming President John Quincy Adams, plus an overnight visit with
                    former President Thomas Jefferson at 
                        Monticello
                    . To one and all Owen elaborated his radical views regarding the evils of society and
                    his plan for its reformation. His views—critical of revealed religion, marriage and the
                    traditional family, and private property—were explained and reexplained. His underlying
                    conviction that man's character was made for and not by
                    him was oft repeated. But Owen gave a redeeming and optimistic twist to this rather fatalistic view
                    by insisting that man's life and character could be changed and elevated by improving the
                    environment and through education.
            Owen exhibited a model for his ideal village, of which 
                        New Harmony
                     was to be the first of many. Among other things 
                  
                     5 For varying statements about the amount that Owen paid for 
                                New Harmony
                             and the acreage included see Bestor, Backwoods Utopias,
                            102-103, 110, 180-81; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 58; Wilson, Angel and the Serpent, 110-11.
                            In advertising 
                                New Harmony
                             for sale, Frederick Rapp indicated that in addition to the town, with its
                            dwellings and various public and business buildings, there were also twenty thousand acres
                            of first-rate land on the Indiana side of the 
                                Wabash
                            , of which "about" two thousand acres were in a "high
                            state" of cultivation. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony
                            Society, 294-96.
               
                     shown in the model was a large three-story quadrangular
                    structure which, when built, would extend one thousand feet on all sides, with elevated portions at
                    the corners and middle of the sides having rooms for lectures, concerts, balls, chapel,
                    laboratories, and committee meetings. The remainder of the first and second stories was mainly for
                    family dwellings, while the third floor was to include rooms for the unmarried residents and
                    children above two years of age—reflecting Owen's desire to separate children
                    from their parents so that they could be educated to live in the new society with as little
                    contamination from the evils of the old as possible. The village was to be supplied with gas, water,
                    and other conveniences, and supplementary buildings within the square were to provide cooking,
                    dining, washing, and additional facilities. Once society had been reformed, taxes would be greatly
                    reduced, and the new society would bring material gain as well as a higher morality. But, Owen
                    explained, 
                        New Harmony
                    's existing buildings, though not ideal, would be used until the model village
                    could be erected nearby.
            Why did Owen so quickly purchase 
                        New Harmony
                     and launch his Utopian village there? The underlying factor was his deep commitment to
                    the belief that it would be the seed for other communities, all of which would eventually lead to
                    the new society he envisioned. All else was secondary thereto. Other considerations are difficult to
                    evaluate. By the mid-1820s New Lanark was not a promising place for the achievement of his goals.
                    Owen's increasingly radical ideas had stirred resentment and criticism among his business
                    associates and throughout the British Isles. Moreover, the departure of the Harmonists offered a
                    rare opportunity to purchase a town, already adapted to community living, at a price far less than
                    one could be built. And not to be overlooked is the appeal which America had for Owen (and many
                    Europeans). Here, Owen believed, freedom and progress were thriving, and society was much less
                    encrusted with custom and tradition than in Europe. In short, Owen believed that utopia could be
                    more easily achieved in the New World than in the Old.6
            
            While Robert Owen was absent from 
                        New Harmony
                     in the early months of 1825, son William and Captain Donald Macdonald 
                  
                     6 Discussion concerning why Owen left New Lanark for 
                                New Harmony
                             is included in Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 101-102; Harrison,
                                Quest for the New Moral World, 53-57; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 55-58.
               
                     remained on the 
                        Wabash
                    .7 Unfortunately they little understood how the senior Owen planned
                    to administer his community. Even more surprising, Robert Owen himself had not matured relevant
                    principles and guidelines for 
                        New Harmony
                    . This negligence is in contrast to the reputation that he had as an effective manager
                    of the textile mills at New Lanark. Owen had also failed to make clear, or apparently even to
                    formulate for himself, his policy regarding ownership of property and conditions for membership in
                    the model community. This neglect added greatly to the problems involved in trying to create a sense
                    of community. As Bestor suggests, some who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     anticipated becoming employees; others hoped to live off Owen's bounty; still
                    others expected him to pool his property with that of theirs; and a portion was prepared to join the
                    community as renters.8
            
            William urged his father to be cautious about admitting persons from the area of 
                        New Harmony
                    , suggesting reliance on immigrants from Europe. Throwing caution to the winds, Robert
                    Owen, while in the East, issued a manifesto inviting all who were in sympathy with his aims to
                    proceed to 
                        New Harmony
                     to join the new community. As hundreds arrived from a number of states and some other
                    countries, they formed a heterogeneous group which was short of skilled tradesmen and enthusiastic
                    laborers.
            Amid these circumstances William and Macdonald improvised as best they could. What they declared or
                    decided was at times modified by statements which Robert Owen made in the East. Approximately one
                    month after the elder Owen had departed for the East Coast, William ruefully wrote his father:
                    "I am quite tired of doing nothing here but talking. It is eternally the same thing over
                    & over again. Always the same questions to be answered to every new face."9 A month and a half later young Owen recorded doubts about prospects for 
                        New Harmony
                    . 
                  
                     7 Except when other references are cited, the author is chiefly
                            indebted to Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 110-22, 160-71; and Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 82-104, for information on the immediate background for the
                            Preliminary Society and its status until replaced by the Society of Equality in February of
                            1826. Lockwood, however, is used largely for his documentary material. For informative
                            accounts by participants in the Preliminary Society see Snedeker, Diaries of
                                Donald Macdonald, 265-95; Hiatt, Diary of William Owen, 93-134;
                            Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 360-417, for letters by William Pelham and related items; Thomas
                            Clinton Pears, Jr., ed., 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , an Adventure in Happiness: Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 7-59.
                  
                     8 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 117-18.
                  
                     9 William Owen to Robert Owen, February 7, 1825, quoted in ibid., 115.
               
                     "The enjoyment of a reformer," he confided in
                    his journal, "is much more in contemplation, than in reality …." More
                    revealing is his comment: "I doubt whether those who have been comfortable and contented in
                    their old mode of life, will find an increase of enjoyment when they come here."10 It is regrettable that Robert Owen was not with William to encounter the
                    practical problems emerging as chuckholes on the romantic highway to Utopia.
            When Robert Owen reappeared on April 13, 1825, the situation was chaotic. Roughly seven hundred to
                    eight hundred individuals were present. There was urgent need to get the manufacturing
                    establishments going in an effective manner; the time for planting crops and vegetables had in part
                    passed, threatening a shortage of food during the summer and fall. And there were the normal
                    concerns about who lived where, how labor tasks were to be divided and rewarded, and how food and
                    other necessities would be obtained and distributed.
            Many expected that with Owen's return the great experiment would get under way on an even
                    keel. As Owen faced the vexing problems awaiting him, he wisely decided that Utopia could better be
                    achieved in two steps rather than in one giant leap forward. Speaking in the Hall of 
                        New Harmony
                    , the former Harmonist brick church, he explained that the transition from the old
                    society to his new moral order could not be immediately accomplished. An intermediate stage would
                    thus be established, and, especially at its beginning, direction of the community would be largely
                    in his hands. A constitution for a Preliminary Society, principally drafted by Owen, was adopted by
                    the community on May 1.
            The constitution included provisions regarding both membership and property. Except for
                    "persons of color," membership was open to individuals "of all ages and
                    descriptions" provided they signed the constitution.11 Members were to
                    furnish their own household and kitchen furniture as well as small tools such as axes and spades.
                    Livestock owned by individuals would be taken over by the society, and the value of the animals
                    would be placed to the credit of the previous owner if the society desired what was offered.
                    Ownership of the town, buildings, and land remained with Robert Owen. Since common 
                  
                     10 Hiatt, Diary of William Owen, 129-30.
                  
                     11 The constitution is printed in Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 84-90. The quotation is from page 85. Persons "of
                            color" might be "received as helpers" to the community, or aid
                            might be given them "to become. associates in communities in Africa,"
                            another country, or some other part of the 
                                United States
                            .
               
                     ownership of property was not established, either for the
                    Preliminary Society or the Society of Equality which succeeded it, 
                        New Harmony
                     under Owen's auspices never became a true communal society. Rather, it was a
                    cooperative effort which had only the potential of becoming such a society.
            According to the constitution of the Preliminary Society, during the initial year its direction and
                    control were vested in a committee named by Robert Owen. With the start of the second year, however,
                    members of the society would elect three persons to represent them on this governing body. The
                    constitution anticipated that between the end of the second and third year "a community of
                    equality and independence" would be formed.12 All members were to be of
                    the "same rank" but with precedence given to age and experience as well as to
                    persons "chosen to offices of trust and utility."13 Members
                    would occupy housing as determined by the committee. The community was to provide education for
                    children and afford care and medical aid to the aged, sick, and injured. Children could board and
                    sleep in the homes of their parents, but parents who wished could arrange with the committee to
                    place their children in the boarding school. Liberty of conscience and freedom of religion were
                    affirmed.
            Members were to contribute their best service for the good of the society, and each person was to
                    receive credit at the community store as a basis for obtaining food and clothing. A member was to be
                    credited for service to the community and debited for items received. The committee, assisted by
                    heads of departments, would evaluate credits and debits at the end of each year. Credits at the
                    store for families would be in proportion to the number of useful members. But complete equality was
                    not required in financial matters. For instance, Robert Owen was authorized to engage needed
                    individuals at fixed salaries, and they were to be eligible for credit at the store in proportion
                    thereto.
            Robert Owen remained at 
                        New Harmony
                     only a little over a month after launching the Preliminary Society. On June 5,
                    accompanied by Captain Macdonald, he left for 
                        Scotland
                     to attend to business and family affairs. Son William, a member of the
                    society's governing committee, remained in Indiana. Already Robert Owen had allowed members
                    of the society to elect three persons to this committee in addition to the four he had appointed. At
                    weekly meetings members discussed items pertaining 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 85, 86.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 85.
               
                     to the society; but the governing power rested with the
                    committee, and for the most part such power was responsive to William's leadership until
                    his father's return on January 12, 1826.
            Though only twenty-three years of age, William was a capable individual who probably succeeded about
                    as well as circumstances allowed. Production from the manufacturing establishments lagged as did
                    that from the farms. The shortage of skilled tradesmen and willing laborers was compounded by the
                    lack of adequate and experienced supervisory and management staff. The effort to keep proper records
                    of credits earned versus items obtained from the store provided the governing committee with
                    continuing headaches and caused murmuring of dissatisfaction on the part of some. Because
                    consumption of goods greatly outran the production thereof, the Preliminary Society operated in the
                    red. Though this society lasted only about nine months, Robert Owen apparently subsidized its
                    financing by at least $30,000.14 This was a substantial sum in the
                    undeveloped and primitive economy of the day.
            Although the economic life of the Preliminary Society was very disappointing, its cultural and social
                    life had advantages and attractions. There were frequent dances and balls, musical concerts,
                    lectures, and other cultural and social events. Schools were provided for boys and girls of the
                    community without tuition payments by their parents. Freedom of religion and liberty of opinion were
                    accorded. In terms of intellectual and social life, the Preliminary Society offered far more than
                    was generally available in the West. To be sure, some, like Mrs. Sarah Pears, found the
                    egalitarianism and group living disconcerting. But others, such as William Pelham, found it
                    enjoyable and stimulating.15 A portion of the members left the community, but
                    roughly an equal number arrived.
            Although the Preliminary Society had only commenced when Robert Owen left for 
                        Scotland
                     in June of 1825, six months passed before he returned.16 An
                    effective administrator would have used the half-year interval to formulate careful plans for
                    guidance of his pilot community. Moreover, in view of 
                  
                     14 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 167, 180-81.
                  
                     15 Pears, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , an Adventure in Happiness, 16-19, 32-34, 41-43, 52-53, 59-61;
                            Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 368-414, passim.
                  
                  
                     16 The discussion of the transition to the Society of Equality and its
                            breakup in the spring of 1827, except as otherwise suggested, is based on Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 146-60, 170-201; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 103-74. Except for documentary material the reliance is
                            largely on Bestor.
               
                     Owen's having invested a considerable part of his
                    fortune in the town and its countryside, prudence made such planning extremely desirable. Even
                    before Owen's reappearance in Indiana, he decided in favor of an early transition to the
                    Community of Equality envisioned in the constitution of the Preliminary Society. Though short of
                    plans and prudence, Owen had a superabundance of optimism and faith in the triumph of his ideas and
                    philosophy. His romantic views were buoyed up by the warm reception residents of 
                        New Harmony
                     gave him upon his return. He was also encouraged and inspired because the famed
                    educator and scientist, William Maclure of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , had come with him as a partner and member of the community. Several educators and
                    scientists of prominence accompanied Owen and Maclure to Indiana. The keelboat which conveyed the
                    party down the Ohio River from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     was called the Philanthropist, but Owen's assertion that no
                    boat had ever transported so much knowledge caused it immediately to become known as the
                    "Boatload of Knowledge."17
            
            Soon after his arrival at 
                        New Harmony
                     on January 12, 1826, Owen announced that the time had come to end the Preliminary
                    Society. Already, he stated, the community had made more progress than he had expected for its first
                    two or three years. Despite the lag in production and the lack of a true sense of community among
                    the heterogeneous mass who had come to share Utopia with him, Owen oozed confidence in the success
                    of his ideas at 
                        New Harmony
                     and elsewhere.
            Only thirteen days after Owen's return, a general meeting of members of the Preliminary
                    Society voted to make the transition to the Community of Equality. Calling themselves a
                    constitutional convention, the members elected a Committee of Seven to draft a constitution. Owen
                    and Maclure were excused from service on this committee, but sons William and Robert Dale Owen were
                    elected thereto. Robert Dale, full of faith and enthusiasm like his father, had also been on the
                    Boatload of Knowledge. The committee had conflicting views—more about matters of
                    organization than of economic principles—but it soon drafted a constitution which the
                    convention adopted on February 5.
            Accompanying the constitution was a declaration of principles.18 This declaration
                    proclaimed freedom of speech and action; 
                  
                     17 See letter of Mrs. Sarah Pears in Pears, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , an Adventure in Happiness, 71; and letter of William Pelham in
                            Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 405.
                  
                     18 Lockwood in his 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement quotes at length from both this declaration and the new
                            constitution. For quoted material from the declaration see pages 105-108 and from the
                            constitution pages 108-11.
               
                     community of property; equality of duties, modified by physical
                    and mental differences; and "Equality of rights, uninfluenced by sex or condition, in all
                        adults."19 Emphasis was placed upon the importance of sincerity,
                    kindness, courtesy, order, health, and knowledge. Owen's basic view that man's
                    character was made for him rather than by him was termed self-evident, as was his belief that
                    artificial rewards or punishments were inappropriate.
            The new constitution had provisions about admission of members, ownership of property, and government
                    of the community. Those who belonged to the Preliminary Society were eligible to continue with the
                    Community of Equality. Additional members had to be approved by a majority of the members of the
                    community, subsequent to their admission having been discussed at two successive weekly meetings. In
                    like manner an individual could not be dismissed from the community unless the question had been
                    discussed at two successive weekly meetings and supported by two thirds of the membership. The
                    "real estate of the community" was "to be held in perpetual trust forever
                    for the use of the community and all its members," but the addition of the phrase
                    "for the time being" adds vagueness and inconsistency to this item.20 No credit was to be given or received by the community for property or money, except
                    that advanced by Robert Owen, William Mac-lure, or any other member. This section indicates that the
                    property owned by Owen and Maclure was not viewed as having been donated to the community.
            Government was vested in an assembly consisting of "all the resident members of the
                    community above the age of twenty-one years," one sixth of whom constituted a quorum. Since
                    the declaration of principles emphasized equality of rights regardless of sex, presumably women were
                    members of the assembly.21 In addition to having the power to make laws, the
                    assembly elected a secretary, treasurer, and commissary. These three officials, plus four
                    superintendents of departments or occupational divisions of the community, constituted an executive
                    council to whom much power was delegated. The executive council was to make detailed weekly reports
                    to the assembly, and it was subject to direction by a majority of the larger body. The constitution
                    could be amended by a vote of 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 105.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 110.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 108.
               
                     three fourths of the members of the assembly, provided the
                    change or changes had been discussed at four successive weekly meetings.
            Equality among members was strongly emphasized. All were to be considered as one family with no one
                    held in higher or lower esteem because of occupation. There was to be "similar food,
                    clothing, and education" as nearly as possible. As soon as "practicable,"
                    all were to "live in similar houses" and be accommodated alike.22 Each member was to render his or her best service to the community and receive the best
                    physical, moral, and intellectual education the community was able to provide. The provision for
                    possible pecuniary inequality, found in the constitution of the Preliminary Society, had been
                    abandoned. Equality, regardless of sex, occupation, or economic output, had become the avowed policy
                    for the Community of Equality.
            The constitution had lofty and worthy ideals, but it was especially vague concerning the way in which
                    the economic efforts of the community would be organized, controlled, and implemented. A few days
                    after the adoption of the constitution, a committee from the Preliminary Society gave a report
                    evaluating the labor thus far contributed by members. The resulting inventory made it apparent that
                    production had lagged far behind consumption. This report doubtless caused some to realize that both
                    decreased consumption and increased production, with at least a postponement of the enlarged
                    material benefits which Owen had predicted, had become necessary. Thomas Pears, initially an
                    enthusiastic supporter of the experiment, commented that the labor credit for his family was
                    inadequate to pay for its board. Mrs. Pears, already disillusioned and unhappy, after noting that
                    "all are to be in a state of perfect equality," lamented to a relative:
                    "Oh, if you could see some of the rough uncouth creatures here, I think you would find it
                    rather hard to look upon them exactly in the light of brothers and sisters."23 Failing to become a real community, the motley assemblage was a stewing kettle of
                    diverse and splintering elements.
            The government of the Community of Equality by its members was short-lived. In fact, it never became
                    fully established. Only two weeks after the constitution was adopted, the 
                  
                            22
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     23 Pears, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , an Adventure in Happiness, 60.
               
                     members asked Robert Owen to take over and
                    direct the affairs of the community for one year. On March 4, 1826, an agreement was effected
                    whereby the members put themselves under his sole direction until January 1, 1827. Owen's
                    already heavy expenditures on behalf of his experiment, however, compelled him to give serious
                    thought to the financial arrangement between him and the community. Bestor estimates that the
                    benefactor had already spent approximately three fifths of his fortune of about $250,000
                    on the 
                        New Harmony
                     venture. Yet he still owed $40,000 to the Harmonists.24
                    In March, 1826, Owen proposed to sell a considerable part of his property to fellow Utopians, with
                    payment to him to stretch over a period of twelve years with interest at 5 percent. The value of the
                    property to be so transferred was to be established by a committee. The price eventually determined
                    for this part of Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     property was $126,520.25 Dismay and despair greeted this
                    information, and the sale to the parent community was not made; however, two splinter communities
                    made modest purchases. The death rattle of the model community had already commenced.
            It was during the early months of 1826 that the two splinter communities had emerged. One of them was
                    called Macluria, though William Maclure was not associated with it. Comprised mainly of farmers, at
                    least part of whom had already lived in Indiana before Owen began his society, they generally held
                    conservative views about religion in contrast to the liberal sentiments of some of the parent
                    community. They obtained roughly twelve hundred acres of land from Owen and achieved a peak
                    membership of about 150. Seemingly, however, they disbanded during the latter part of 1826. A second
                    group, dominated by English farmers, bought fourteen hundred acres of good farmland and named their
                    community Feiba Peveli. With perhaps half the number associated with Macluria, they achieved
                    considerable prosperity and continued after the breakup of the parent community. As time passed,
                    their land was divided into individual holdings. Owen regarded them as prunings from the original
                    vine and as evidence of the tendency 
                  
                     24 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 180-81.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 181-82. According to Bestor, Macluria—known as Community
                            No. II—and Feiba Peveli—known as Community No. III—paid
                            Owen $5,000 and $7,000 respectively for the land they purchased. See
                            the ensuing paragraph for a discussion of these offshoots from the parent community, which
                            was known as Community No. I.
               
                     for new communities to emerge as his ideas and principles
                    became rooted.26
            
            Still another group attempted to form Community No. IV. Chiefly young intellectuals, various of whom
                    had arrived with the Boatload of Knowledge, these individuals were much better educated than the
                    rank and file and were principally theorists who generally shared Owen's basic ideas and
                    aims. They were an intellectual elite more interested in mental than physical labor. Those members
                    of the parent group whose contribution was largely physical often viewed them as an economic burden
                    upon the community. Although sons Robert Dale and William were part of this elite, Robert Owen
                    concluded that the proposed Community No. IV would split 
                        New Harmony
                     asunder. He offered this group a piece of virgin land so that the young intellectuals
                    could cut down trees and build log cabins as rapidly as they wished! This attempt to gain a separate
                    community failed, but the schisms between those who worked mainly with their heads and those who
                    worked principally with their hands remained a divisive force. The uncertain and shaky economic base
                    of the Owenite society as of the spring and summer of 1826 made it essential that production be well
                    managed and significantly increased. The young intellectuals gave inadequate attention to the urgent
                    need to improve the economic base as a means of furthering their social and intellectual aims.
            Despite sluggish production from farming and manufacturing and some splintering from the parent vine,
                    however, education and scientific research began to advance during the spring of 1826. Under the
                    general direction of Maclure about three or four hundred children were soon receiving an education
                    of a much better quality than normally available. The children combined fieldwork and games with
                    their studies. Since vocational as well as intellectual education was stressed, their practical
                    labor was also useful to the community. Public lectures, balls, and musical programs afforded
                    educational opportunities for adults. Various of the scientists who had come to 
                        New Harmony
                     with Maclure were engaged in research concerning minerals and natural history.
            
               
                  26
                        Ibid., 176-78. The name Feiba Peveli was obtained by following the suggestion
                        of Stedman Whitwell, an English architect who belonged to the Owenite community, that longitude
                        and latitude be translated into letters so that the name of a place would describe its
                        geographical location. According to Whitwell's scheme, for example, had the location
                        been Port Jackson the name of the new group would have been Filts Bubep!
            
            
            This educational and scientific progress was threatened, however, by a developing cleavage between
                    Robert Owen and Maclure. Although Maclure was Owen's prized acquisition to 
                        New Harmony
                    , he was a distinguished scholar and reformer who did not automatically follow
                    Owen's lead. And inasmuch as Maclure had also invested considerable money in the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment, he too had a significant financial stake in its outcome. Maclure quickly
                    became convinced that Owen was a poor administrator, at least in regard to 
                        New Harmony
                    . He also was troubled by the division within the community about the importance of
                    mental versus physical labor. Maclure viewed physical labor as no less important than mental effort.
                    Though interested in social reform, Maclure believed that education, including scholarly research
                    and publication, was an important end in and of itself. On the other hand, Robert Owen principally
                    viewed education as a means of achieving the reformation of society.
            While a break between Owen and Maclure was developing, in May of 1826 Maclure proposed a
                    reorganization of 
                        New Harmony
                    . Although affirming his support for the principle of equality concerning rights and
                    property, Maclure recommended that 
                        New Harmony
                     be divided into communities representing different occupations. The members of each
                    community would have equality concerning rights and property and would exchange goods and services
                    with one another. Each would pay only for the property it actually used, reducing the financial
                    obligation upon members. Owen concurred, and the plan was quickly approved by members of the parent
                    community. In a short time three such divisions emerged: an Agricultural and Pastoral Society, a
                    Mechanic and Manufacturing Society, and a School and Education Society. A Board of Union was created
                    to deal with relations among the societies, and labor notes were to be used in making exchanges from
                    one society to another. Through this reorganization Maclure and his associates gained control of
                    their own community, and having gained such control, they guarded it with care. Formation of the
                    School and Education Society greatly strengthened the trend toward decentralization and splintering;
                    and attachment to the entire community was further weakened, making it even more difficult for Owen
                    to exercise overall influence and direction.
            Throughout the last half of 1826 and the first half of 1827, conditions in 
                        New Harmony
                     drifted from bad to worse. The economic output from both farming and manufacturing
                    remained inadequate, partly because of lack of effective management  and partly because of lack of a sufficient and balanced supply of able
                    and willing individuals to perform essential labor. Since the drones fared about the same as those
                    who labored hard, the incentive for increased output was weak. Moreover, some who worked with their
                    hands thought it unfair that others who worked with their heads should share equally with them.
            Paul 
                        Brown
                    , an exponent of full common ownership of property, assailed Owen as a greedy landlord.
                    He charged that Owen's refusal to merge his property with that of others doomed the social
                    and economic experiment to anarchy and failure. 
                        Brown
                    , who had no property of significance to contribute, argued that Owen had promised to
                    merge his property, but some early residents of the community disputed this claim. 
                        Brown
                    , whose following was apparently limited, also objected to cardplaying among the
                    Utopians and insisted that the bookkeeping concerning credits for labor and debits for items
                    received was oppressive and offensive.27
            
            During what became the concluding year of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment Owen attempted further reorganizations of the society. Maclure's
                    School and Education Society, however, maintained its separate status as Owen tried both
                    centralizing and decentralizing plans to keep his model community alive. Now and then, such as on
                    July 4, 1826, when Owen presented his famous Declaration of Mental Independence, he expressed
                    continued optimism about the progress and future of 
                        New Harmony
                    . In this declaration Owen condemned anew as a trinity of evils revealed religion,
                    marriage based more on consideration of property than of happiness, and the institution of private
                        property.28 Even as his model community drifted toward failure, Owen hailed
                    the splinter communities at 
                        New Harmony
                     and new ones elsewhere as convincing evidence of the success and progress of his ideas
                    for the reformation of society.
            As the months passed, the schism between Owen and Maclure deepened. During the summer of 1826 the
                    Agricultural and Pastoral and the Mechanic and Manufacturing societies became strong critics of the
                    School and Education Society. Members of the former groups objected to paying for the education of
                    their children by counting intellectual labor as equal 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 187-89. For 
                                Brown
                            's account of his views and disagreements with Owen see his Twelve Months in New-Harmony … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1827). Since 
                                Brown
                             was one of the leading thorns in Robert Owen's flesh, it seems
                            especially appropriate that his Twelve Months in New-Harmony … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1972), is a republication by the Porcupine Press, Inc.!
                  
                     28 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 222.
               
                     in value to physical labor. Owen widened the breach between the
                    two societies and the educational society by trying to provide education separate from that
                    available from the group to which Maclure belonged. Owen's rival program was partially
                    successful for a brief period, but before long the School and Education Society regained some of the
                    students it had lost. At the session of the Indiana General Assembly in 1826-1827 Mac-lure made an
                    unsuccessful effort to secure a charter for the School and Education Society to increase his
                    independence of Owen.29
            
            In part because Maclure was absent from 
                        New Harmony
                     during most of the winter months of 1826-1827, the showdown between him and Owen was
                    delayed until May of 1827. Their financial arrangement regarding 
                        New Harmony
                     had been vague enough to allow honest differences of opinion about its content and
                    intent. While they were trying to agree on a settlement thereof, Frederick Rapp arrived from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to collect $20,000 which Owen owed the Harmonists as of May 1, and he
                    offered a discount if the like sum due a year hence was paid in advance. Owen was short of funds,
                    but Maclure completed the payments owed the Harmonists and made Owen his creditor. Maclure asked
                    Owen for a deed—rather than a lease—for the property used by the School and
                    Education Society. When they failed to agree on terms, Maclure filed suit against Owen in the 
                        Posey County
                     Circuit Court for $40,000 on the basis of the Harmonist bonds that he had
                    obtained. Owen responded with a suit against Maclure for $90,000, claiming such was due
                    from their having become partners. In accordance with the custom of the day, legal notices
                    concerning this dispute were posted at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and persons hostile to various aspects of the situation made sport of the quarrel. The
                    suits were soon dismissed, and the dispute was arbitrated. Maclure paid Owen half of the
                    $90,000 Owen sought, but he got an unrestricted deed for 490 acres.30
            
            Even before this break, however, sons Robert Dale and William admitted that they viewed the 
                        New Harmony
                     venture as a failure. This admission was made in the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, the organ of the community, in its issue for March 28, 
                  
                     29 See Indiana, Senate Journal (1826-1827), 182-83,
                            for a copy of a bill to incorporate the 
                                New Harmony
                             Education Society on behalf of William Maclure. The Senate indefinitely
                            postponed this bill by a vote of 17 to 4.
                  
                     30 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 197-98.
               
                     1827.31 During the last week in May, Robert
                    Owen made at least two "farewell" addresses, and on June 1 he departed for 
                        Scotland
                    . Although Owen apparently did not then make public admission that his model community
                    had failed, he was well aware that it had not been successful.
            A proper understanding of the Owenite legacy at 
                        New Harmony
                     requires that the model community be viewed in its long-range and larger context as
                    well as in its immediate and narrow setting. Anticipated by Owen as the seed from which numerous
                    communities would develop and in turn transform society into a new moral and economic order, the
                    Owenite experiment on the lower 
                        Wabash
                     existed for only about two years. It would doubtlessly have terminated sooner had Owen
                    not invested the bulk of his fortune in its support. A dozen or so other communities were quickly
                    established in the 
                        United States
                     with varying degrees of connection with the parent unit. Some of them disbanded ahead
                    of the original community, and they all died in their infancy.32 Thus, in terms
                    of its immediate and narrow setting, the Owenite community at 
                        New Harmony
                     was an early failure.
            Viewed in its long-range and larger context, however, the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment achieved much, though for the most part not in ways its founder had
                    expected. The society's contributions were substantial. They include: (1) the varied and
                    significant accomplishments of members of the Owen family who made 
                        New Harmony
                     their home or at least principal place of residence, (2) the scholarly research and
                    publications of Maclure and other scientists associated with 
                        New Harmony
                    , (3) the influence of the educational ideas emphasized by the Owenite community and the
                    subsequent support of such ideas by Robert Dale Owen, (4) the impact of the libraries that resulted
                    from an 
                  
                     31 Robert Dale Owen in Threading My Way: An
                            Autobiography (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 288-89, comments regarding this admission: "Finally, a little
                            more than a year after the Community [of Equality] experiment commenced, came official
                            acknowledgment of its failure. The editorial containing it, though without signature, was
                            written by my brother William and myself, as editors, on our own responsibility, but it was
                            submitted by us, for revision as to facts, to my father." As Robert Dale Owen
                            indicates, the editorial included the statement that "
                                New Harmony
                            , therefore, is not now a community."
                  
                     32 For a concise discussion of these communities see Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 202-29, 237-38; Harrison, Quest for the
                                New Moral World, 163-68, 173, 175-76. Most of them were located in Indiana,
                                    
                        Ohio, Pennsylvania
                     , and 
                                New York
                            . The principal community in Indiana was the Blue Spring Community, near 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     endowment bequeathed by Maclure, and (5) the pioneering concern
                    and role regarding rights for women.33
            
            The contributions of the four Owen sons and a daughter to the cultural and political life of Indiana
                    and the 
                        United States
                     were considerable. Robert Dale served four terms in the lower house of the Indiana
                    General Assembly, two terms in the lower house of Congress, twice as a presidential elector, as a
                    delegate to the convention that framed the Indiana Constitution of 1851, and in the 1850s as
                    minister from the 
                        United States
                     to the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. A Democrat, during the Civil War he aided the
                    Indiana war effort by going to Europe to help secure sorely needed military supplies. He was a
                    generous supporter of Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation at a time when many Republicans
                    considered this measure premature. As a member of Congress he had a large role in establishing the
                    Smithsonian Institution, and as a delegate to the state's constitutional convention he
                    became the penman for the final draft of the Constitution of 1851. (His role concerning education
                    and rights for women is noted in the ensuing pages.)34
            
            David Dale and Richard achieved much in the field of science. Foregoing a medical career to follow in
                    the footsteps of Maclure as a geologist, David Dale made Indiana's initial geological
                    survey in 1837 and 1838. His readable and informative report is still respected for its excellence.
                    During the two ensuing decades he made surveys for various other states and the 
                        United States
                    , making 
                        New Harmony
                     a focal point for geological study in America. David also helped Robert Dale in his
                    efforts and plans for the Smithsonian. In the late 1850s Richard also did geological surveying for
                    Indiana, but he is best known for his military service in the Civil War, his kindness to Confederate
                    prisoners during this conflict, and his long and outstanding career from 1864 to 1879 as a professor
                    of natural science at Indiana University. While at Indiana University he 
                  
                     33 The author has not found any concise summary of the Owenite legacy
                            as viewed in its long-range and larger context; however, the following are useful regarding
                            this topic: Helen Elliott, "Development of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Community with Special Reference to Education" (A.M. thesis, School of
                            Education, Indiana University, 1933), 46-87, 107-21; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 1-6, 174-377; Donald E. Pitzer, "Education in
                            Utopia: The 
                                New Harmony
                             Experience," Indiana Historical Society Lectures,
                                1976-1977: The History of Education in the Middle West (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 75-101; Wilson, Angel and the Serpent, 183-213. As
                            the ensuing citations indicate, the author relied mainly on scattered sources in discussing
                            the Owenite legacy.
                  
                     34 Richard William Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A
                            Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940), passim, especially chapters IX-X, XIII-XIX;
                            John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                                Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 99, 101, 165; Biographical Directory of the American
                                Congress, 1774-1927 (
                                Washington
                            , 1928), 1378.
               
                     was named the first president of Purdue University, but his
                    role as such was brief and mainly advisory to its trustees.35
            
            William and Jane added to the varied and significant contributions of the Owen family members. While
                    the Owenite community was in progress, William spent some time editing the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, but he mainly devoted himself to business concerns. He was a leader in
                    founding the Thespian Society and acted in some of the plays it performed. In the 1830s he was
                    elected a director of the 
                        Evansville
                     branch of the Second State Bank of Indiana. William also helped establish the 
                        Posey County
                     Agricultural Society. His early death in 1842 ended his more than a decade and a half
                    of participation in local and area affairs. Jane Dale, the only daughter who came to 
                        New Harmony
                    , married a 
                        Virginia
                     scientist and engineer, Robert Henry Fauntleroy. It was in their home in 1859 that
                    daughter Constance and others founded the Minerva Society, often incorrectly considered the first
                    literary society for women in the 
                        United States
                    . Although it was among the earliest of such societies, as the historian of the Indiana
                    Federation of Clubs had forthrightly recognized, the Minerva Society was not the first.36
            
            The scholarly research and publications by Maclure and other scientists associated with the model
                    community doubtless exceeded that from all Indiana colleges and universities prior to the Civil
                        War.37 A native of 
                        Scotland
                    , Maclure, frequently called the Father of American Geology, was widely considered the
                    foremost geologist of the 
                        United States
                     when Robert Owen persuaded him to become a partner in the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment. Maclure had already visited most of the states and territories of the 
                        United States
                    , observing geological formations and gathering much information concerning them. Making
                        
                  
                     35 Walter 
                                Brookfield
                             Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer Geologist of the Middle West
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943), passim; Victor Lincoln Albjerg, Richard
                                Owen: 
                                    Scotland
                                 1810, Indiana 1890 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1946), passim, especially pages 20-21, 24-91. For a
                            summary view of 
                                New Harmony
                             as a focal point for geological study see Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 269-76.
                  
                     36 Hiatt, Diary of William Owen, iii-vi; Grace Gates
                            Courtney, comp., and Arcada Stark Balz, ed., History Indiana Federation of
                                Clubs (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., 1939), xi, 11-16.
                  
                     37 In 1966 the Indiana Academy of Science sponsored a symposium
                            regarding the natural history and features of Indiana. The academy dedicated a volume
                            resulting from this symposium to ten of Indiana's pioneer scientists. Among the ten
                            so named were four scientists with close associations with 
                                New Harmony
                            : Charles Alexandre Lesueur, ichthyologist; William Maclure, geologist; David
                            Dale Owen, geologist; and Thomas Say, entomologist. Alton A. Lindsey, ed., Natural Features of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), vii. Also see comment of Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 534.
               
                    
                    
                        Philadelphia
                     his headquarters, in 1817 he had become president of the Academy of Natural Science of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , a position he held until his death in 1840. Maclure's Essay on
                        the Formation of Rocks, or an Inquiry into the Probable Origin of Their Present Form and
                        Structure and his Observations on the Geology of the West 
                            India
                         Islands; from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, Inclusive were both published at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1832.38
            
            Thomas Say and Charles Alexandre Lesueur, who had descended the Ohio River on
                    the Boatland of Knowledge, also produced scholarly writings which came from the press at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Often called the Father of American Zoology, during the late 1820s and early 1830s Say
                    published his Description of New Species of North American Insects, and Observations on
                        Some of the Species Already Described; his Descriptions of Some New
                        Terrestrial and Fluviatile Shells of North America; and his American
                        Conchology, or Descriptions of the Shells of North America. The latter work, however, was
                    published in installments over a period of several years. Though never finished and actually only
                    barely begun, Lesueur's American Ichthyology or, Natural History of the Fishes
                        of North America with Coloured Figures from Drawings Executed from Nature was launched from
                    the press of 
                        New Harmony
                    .39
            
            Other scientists also had close associations with 
                        New Harmony
                    . Although not among the scientists who resided there, Francois André
                    Michaux's three volumes concerning the forests of North America, including over 150 colored
                    engravings which Maclure bought in 
                        Paris
                    , were republished on the 
                        New Harmony
                     press in 1841.40 Gerard Troost, an eminent Dutch geologist, as well
                    as David Dale and Richard Owen, did research at 
                        New Harmony
                    . During the last half of the nineteenth century, Edward 
                  
                     38 Concerning Maclure's career and contributions to 
                                New Harmony
                             see Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World, 36-41, 87, 140,
                            144-45, 164-65; Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 146-59, 182-85, 193, 200. The
                            books indicated and other publications at 
                                New Harmony
                             by Maclure are listed in Cecil K. Byrd and Howard H. Peckham, A
                                Bibliography of Indiana Imprints, 1804-1853 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            XXXV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1955), 104-105, 113-14, 162, 172.
                  
                     39 Concerning the publications of Say and Lesueur and their
                            association with 
                                New Harmony
                             see Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 100, 108, 110, 147, 155-59,
                            197, 200; Byrd and Peckham, Indiana Imprints, 76, 90-91, 96-98, 106-107,
                            115, 130, 174, 200.
                  
                     40 Byrd and Peckham, Indiana Imprints, 213-14. The
                            title of Michaux's monumental study, as given in Byrd and Peckham, is: The North American Sylva; or, a Description of the Forest Trees of the
                                        
                           United States, Canada, Nova Scotia
                        ,
                                Considered Particularly with Respect to Their Use in the Arts, and Their Introduction
                                into Commerce; to Which Is Added a Description of the Most Useful of the European Forest
                                Trees.
                  
               
                     T. Cox, son of a member of the Owenite community, served as
                    state geologist of Indiana for more than a decade (1868-1880).41
            
            Although modified and adapted by Robert Owen, William Maclure, and Joseph Neef, education during the
                    Owenite community was much influenced by Pestalozzian views and practices. Since these men and
                    others had varying views about education and at times engaged in personal controversies as well, it
                    was not possible to establish a consistent educational program. After Neefs arrival at 
                        New Harmony
                     early in 1826, Maclure persuaded him to take charge of the schools. Neef had taught
                    under Pestalozzi in Europe; and he had operated schools on Pestalozzian concepts at 
                        Paris
                    , near 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and at 
                        Louisville
                    . After imbibing liberal and republican principles in the French Revolution, Neef had
                    fought under Napoleon and had been wounded by a metal ball which he carried in his head for the
                    remainder of his long life. By the time he was called to 
                        New Harmony
                    , however, he had abandoned teaching to become a farmer in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Had the erstwhile soldier and farmer been aware of the difficulties and controversies
                    soon to beset him, it is possible that he would have continued his farming—to which he
                    eventually returned.42
            
            Despite the differing views and personal controversies there was much consensus regarding the
                    educational program at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Generally speaking the traditional emphasis on textbook instruction and individual
                    recitation therefrom was rejected. An effort was made to establish a friendly and relaxed atmosphere
                    between teachers and students, with coercion and punishment strongly frowned upon. Students were
                    encouraged to understand ideas and concepts, beginning at a simple or easily understood level and
                    then advancing step by step toward understanding at a more complex and higher level. In a relaxed
                    and permissive setup, students might learn spelling and reading by using moveable letters, counting
                    by using beans or small rocks, and division by cutting apples or cakes. The study of nature and
                        
                  
                     41 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 100, 110, 147, 155,
                            200; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 319-20.
                  
                     42 Concerning the educational views of Owen and Maclure, their debt to
                            Pestalozzi, and their inability to cooperate regarding an educational program at 
                                New Harmony
                             see Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World, 37-40, 139-47,
                            159-62, 256; Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 133-59, 182-85, 191-93, 199-201.
                            Regarding the educational views of Neef and his debt to Pestalozzi see Gerald Lee Gutek, Joseph Neef: The Americanism of Pestalozzianism (University, Ala., 1978),
                            especially chapters 1-5. Gutek also notes varying views of Owen and Maclure, and he stresses
                            personal controversies between them and others.
               
                     science was supplemented by field trips with comments and
                    observations about items found along the way. Physical education was stressed, at times combined
                    with physical labor or military drill. In part because Maclure placed a high priority on vocational
                    education, training for a variety of crafts and trades was emphasized. Mingled with the educational
                    program were varying efforts toward indoctrination on behalf of community living.43
            
            Education was viewed as a lifelong process. Schools existed for infants between two and five,
                    followed by a higher school for children from five to twelve and the adult school for persons over
                    twelve. The infant school mixed play and preparation for community life with the beginning of
                    learning. The higher school sought to combine vocational preparation with substantial progress in
                    learning and understanding. After age twelve individuals were encouraged to continue their general
                    and vocational education while serving as productive members of the community. Education was
                    available for women and girls as well as for men and boys. While attending the infant and the higher
                    school, students often, and possibly generally, lived apart from their parents; but the extent to
                    which this was the case and the frequency with which students visited parents are uncertain.
                    Enrollment in the infant school apparently reached a peak of about one hundred students; that in the
                    higher school approximately two hundred; and that in the adult school perhaps a total of eighty. But
                    informal adult education included lectures, musical programs, and discussions which were apparently
                    not counted.44
            
            Robert Dale Owen made large contributions to education in Indiana. He was a leader in the movement
                    for public support of common or elementary schools as early as the 1830s. As one of the framers of
                    the Constitution of 1851 and a member of the ensuing legislative session, he was among the key
                    architects of Indiana's statewide system of public schools, free of tuition. In an age when
                    many citizens and legislators had meager or no interest in state support of higher education, he was
                    a stalwart defender of Indiana University. He played a leading role in protecting its endowment,
                    derived from federal land grants, from being shared with various church and private colleges as
                        
                  
                     43 Elliott, "Development of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Community with Special Reference to Education," 46-87; Gutek, Joseph Neef, 43-65; Pitzer, "Education in Utopia,"
                            75-101. Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 209-93, has useful information but should be read with care
                            because Lockwood makes exaggerated claims about 
                                New Harmony
                            's contributions to education.
                  
                     44 Gutek, Joseph Neef, 45-49.
               
                     was vigorously recommended by Caleb Mills.45 Robert Dale Owen's already noted role in establishing the Smithsonian Institution
                    illustrates his interest in the continuing education of adults.
            Maclure was also interested in the education of adults, as was indicated by his will for the
                    establishment of libraries by and for men who worked with their hands. In the 
                        United States
                     during the 1820s and 1830s workingmen, especially craftsmen and mechanics, at times
                    organized and sponsored meetings which combined efforts toward adult education with discussions of
                    social and political topics. Some of these groups made newspapers and books available to their
                    members. When a group of workingmen was formed at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Maclure gave them a place in the Hall of 
                        New Harmony
                    , the former Harmonist church, and ordered books for their library. Upon
                    Maclure's death in 1840, his will provided for the donation of $500 to add to
                    the support of the library of any organized group of workingmen who already had at least one hundred
                    volumes in their possession. After much litigation, which Alvin P. Hovey, later governor of Indiana,
                    fought to the Indiana Supreme Court, $80,000 from Maclure's estate was
                    distributed to 144 libraries in Indiana and sixteen libraries in 
                        Illinois
                    . All but three of Indiana's ninety-two counties obtained a Maclure library.
                    The libraries were generally short-lived, however, and most of them had died or been absorbed by
                    other libraries by the end of the nineteenth century. The Workingmen's Institute at 
                        New Harmony
                     became one of the Maclure libraries, but in terms of financial support it later became
                    far more indebted to Dr. Edward Murphy who as a boy had been educated and aided by the Owenite
                    community. Thus, this library, with its extremely valuable collections about 
                        New Harmony
                     and the Utopian experiments associated therewith, is a joint legacy from Maclure and
                        Murphy.46
            
            
               
                        New Harmony
                    's pioneering efforts regarding the status of women, though important, require
                    additional scholarly study before they can be properly evaluated. Robert Owen had advanced the
                    argument that communal living would decrease the heavy burdens and much of the drudgery which long
                    had been the common lot of women. He also pictured communal living as a means of giving women new
                    opportunities for social and 
                  
                     45 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, passim, especially
                            pages 148-49, 156, 256-58, 270-71, 285-88, 292; Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 114-15, 117.
                  
                     46 Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 256, 322-35.
               
                     cultural development. But since the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment was of short duration and never became a true communal society,
                    Owen's views were not adequately tested. It seems, however, that during the experimental
                    community women generally had approximately their traditional duties and roles. If members of the
                    community elected women to key committee or similar positions, evidence for such
                    has not been found.47 Nevertheless, Madame Marie D. Fretageot gained prominence
                    as a teacher in the schools; Lucy Sistare, wife of Thomas Say, contributed beautiful and exquisite
                    drawings to the scientific publications of her husband; and Eloisa Buss Neef aided the educational
                    efforts of her husband, Joseph Neef. Moreover, the emphasis on educational opportunities for girls
                    and women and the stirring of ideas contributed toward a new role for women. Frances
                    Wright's sojourn in the Owenite community and her later association with Robert Dale Owen
                    in reform efforts in 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        New York
                     enhanced this movement. The extent to which women at 
                        New Harmony
                     themselves sought to modify their traditional role is inadequately understood, but the
                    existence of a Female Social Society in 1825 suggests the possibility that some conscious effort was
                    made in this direction.48
            
            Much of 
                        New Harmony
                    's prominence regarding the changing role of women is derived from the
                    subsequent efforts of Robert Dale Owen on their behalf. While a legislator in the 1830s he tried to
                    secure important property rights for women. He continued his efforts as a delegate to the
                    constitutional convention and then as a member of the General Assembly at its session in 1851-1852.
                    By the early 1850s he had helped to achieve a significant gain in the property rights enjoyed by
                    women. At mid-century when Owen urged establishment of a Normal School at Indiana University to
                    educate teachers for the common schools, he favored the admission of women and advocated their
                    employment as teachers. Owen's efforts on behalf of women, especially regarding augmented
                    property rights, resulted in the gift of a silver pitcher to him in 1851 on behalf of the women of
                    Indiana. Less well known than Robert Dale 
                  
                     47 Owen's view that community living should reduce labor for
                            women is indicated in Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 192.
                  
                     48 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 219-27; Elliott,
                            "The Development of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Community with Special Reference to Education," 56-57, 66-69, 74,
                            77-79, 107-108; Gutek, Joseph Neef, 41, 42, 45, 49, 52-55; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 76, 79-81, 196-99, 236, 241; Pitzer, "Education in
                            Utopia," 91-92. Courtney and Balz, History Indiana Federation of
                            Clubs, 1, considers the Female Social Society as the first "woman's
                            club" in Indiana and perhaps also the first such club in the 
                                United States
                            . This volume also pays generous tribute to Frances Wright. Ibid., 1-4.
               
                     Owen's success in helping gain increased property
                    rights for women is his authorship of a pioneering volume which advocated birth control to improve
                    the status of women as well as to slow the growth in population.49
            
            In short, despite Robert Owen's failure to obtain the immediate aims for his community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , important and lasting achievements developed therefrom. In terms of these achievements
                    the model community was anything but a failure. Although these contributions are far different from
                    what Owen had anticipated, they are a part of the rich legacy which has made individuals in various
                    countries his debtors. Moreover, 
                        New Harmony
                     was not the end of Robert Owen's efforts for reform, especially on behalf of
                    the poor and underprivileged. As he maintained his vision of a Utopian society in the ensuing
                    decades before his death in 1858, he gave much attention to fostering the cooperative movement. His
                    worldwide influence seems based even more on this and related efforts than on his 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment. Nonetheless, 
                        New Harmony
                     was a focal point in Robert Owen's generous and sacrificial efforts to create
                    a new society and a new moral order.50
            
            
               
                  49 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, passim, especially pages
                        59-60, 76-84, 110-11, 117-18, 154-55, 256, 272-83, 289-92, 382-84. Owen's volume or
                        pamphlet concerning birth control, published in 1830, was entitled Moral
                            Physiology; or, a Brief and Plain Treatise on the Population Question.
               
               
                  50 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 86-93; Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World, 5-8, 195-260.
            
            
            
               
                  BRAXFIELD, HOME OF THE ROBERT OWEN FAMILY AT NEW LANARK Photograph of a
                        watercolor attributed to either Robert Dale Owen or David Dale Owen.
               Courtesy Kenneth Dale Owen
            
            
               
                  BRAXFIELD, HOME OF THE ROBERT OWEN FAMILY AT NEW LANARK Photograph printed
                        from a block used to illustrate Frank Pod more, Robert Owen: A Biography (
                            London
                        , 1907).
               Courtesy Robert Owen Museum, Newtown. 
                            Wales
                        
               
            
            
            
               
                  A VIEW OF NEW LANARK, SCOTLAND, FROM A CONTEMPORARY ENGRAVING No. 1, top part
                        of a school for the children, the under part a public kitchen; No. 2, a school for the formation
                        of character; Nos. 3-7, cotton factories. The figures represented are the village band. |See
                        Podmore, Robert Owen, 48.
               Courtesy Robert Owen Museum
            
            
               
                  THE MILLS AT NEW LANARK, C. 1906
               Courtesy Robert Owen Museum
            
            
            
               In addition to illustrating Robert Owen's ideas on dancing and music, the picture
                        illustrates another example of the advanced educational principles followed at New Lanark: the
                        use of visual materials for instruction. Owen believed in teaching the older children geography
                        by means of maps and charts; history with Miss C. Whitwell's "Stream of
                        Time" charts, which were painted on canvas so they could be unrolled as needed; and
                        natural history with pictures and models of plants and animals. |Photocopy of Miss C. Whitwell
                        manuscript, G. D. H. Cole Collection (Nuffield College, 
                            Oxford
                         University, 
                            England
                        '. See also Margaret Cole, Robert Owen of New Lanark
                        (reprint, 
                            New York
                        , 1970), 81-82, 172-73.
               Reproduced from J. F. C. Harrison. Quest for the. New Moral World Robert Owen and
                            the Owemtes in Britain and America
                        
                            New York
                        , 1969, 180.
            
            
            
                    ROBERT OWEN AND WILLIAM MACLUREON EDUCATION
                
            "the right education of the rising generation is, under Divine 
                        Providence
                    , the base upon which the future prosperity and happiness of the community must be
                    founded …."1
            
            "I have so managed the art of instruction that individuals seek it as an amusement. Two of
                    the most powerful agents I use, are musick and dancing. Relaxation after labour, and amusement are
                    both physically and morally necessary. Dancing combines both exercise and amusement, and of all
                    pleasures musick is the most innocent and exhilerates the spirits, while it soothes the
                        passions."2
            
            "Visited Mr. Robert Owen's establishment at New Lanark on the road from 
                        Glasgow
                    …. The children are taught at a very early age Geography in a simple easy way
                    by a large map all answering at a time free from all constraint cheerfull and healthy his [Robert
                    Owen's] success gives me much pleasure on two accounts first for the good it certainly will
                    produce and 2dly for the encouragement it infuses into my long projected plan of forming
                    experimental schools which in so superior a state as the U. States can scarce fail while such an
                    extensively profound and beneficial system seems to flourish in spite of the opposition of despotism
                    both in Church and State Mr. O.'s opinions go far before any I have ever expected to hear
                    touches upon the favorite fancys I have indulged opportunity [?] in looking thro a telescope at the
                    probable progress of civilization it is delightful to contemplate the effects already produced and
                    positively [?] exhilerating the looking forward to future amelioration … 3
            
            
               
                  1 Robert Owen, "A Discourse on a New System of Society; as
                        Delivered in the Hall of Representatives of the 
                            United States
                         … 7th of March, 1825," in Oakley C. Johnson, Robert Owen in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1970), 61.
               
                  2 Quoted in Margaret Bayard Smith, The First Forty Years of 
                                Washington
                             Society …, ed. Gaillard Hunt (
                            New York
                        , 1906). 196.
               
                  3 William Maclure Diary, Vol. XXV, William Maclure Papers (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana).
            
            
            
               
                        THE SILENT MONITOR
                    
               Courtesy Robert Owen Museum
            
            
            
                    Robert Owen's Mechanical Character-Register: The Silent Monitor
                
            "But that which I found to be the most efficient check upon inferior conduct, was the
                    contrivance of a silent monitor for each one employed in the establishment. This consisted of a
                    four-sided piece of wood, about two inches long and one broad, each side coloured—one
                    side black, another blue, the third yellow, and the fourth white, tapered at the top, and finished
                    with wire eyes, to hang upon a hook with either side to the front. One of these was suspended in a
                    conspicuous place near to each of the persons employed, and the colour at the front told the conduct
                    of the individual during the preceding day, to four degrees of comparison. Bad, denoted by black and
                    No. 4,—indifferent by blue, and No. 3,—good by yellow, and No.
                    2,—and excellent by white and No. 1. Then books of character were provided for each
                    department, in which the name of each one employed in it was inserted in the front of succeeding
                    columns, which sufficed to mark by the number the daily conduct …. The superintendent of
                    each department had the placing daily of these silent monitors, and the master of the mill regulated
                    those of the superintendents in each mill. If any one thought that the superintendent did not do
                    justice, he or she had a right to complain to me, or, in my absence, to the master of the mill,
                    before the number denoting the character was entered in the register ….
            "Each silent monitor was, as stated, so placed as to be conspicuous, and to be seen to
                    belong to its own individual. I could thus see at a glance, as I passed through each room of every
                    factory or mill, how each one had behaved during the preceding day.
            "At the commencement of this new method of recording character, the great majority were
                    black, many blue, and a few yellow; gradually the black diminished and were succeeded by the yellow,
                    and some, but at first very few, were white."4
            
            
               
                  4 Robert Owen, The Life of Robert Owen Written by Himself
                            … (reprint, 2 vols., 
                            New Jersey
                        , 1967), I, 80.
            
            
            
               
                  ROBERT OWEN, 1823
               Courtesy Robert Owen Museum. Portrait by Matilda Heming.
            
            "Saturday evening [February 11, 1825] Mr. Owen of Lanark, passed several hours with us. He
                    is ugly, awkward, and unprepossessing, in manners, appearance and voice, but very interesting in
                        conversation."5
            
            "Mr. O. is seventy-five years of age, but does not look so old …. He is a stout
                    man, at least six feet in height, with a good figure and proud athletic limbs. His forehead is
                    remarkably high, deep, wide and retreating. His eyes are pale blue, calm and inspiring. He comes
                    nearest to what we may fancy to have been the appearance of a Roman senator."6
            
            
               
                  5 Smith, First Forty Years, 179.
               
                  6 Bessie Rowland James, Anne Royall's America (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1972), 365.
            
            
            
               
                        ROBERT DALE OWEN WILLIAM OWEN
                    
            
            
               Portraits drawn by Franz Joseph Leopold at Hofwyl, 
                            Switzerland
                        , 1821, when the Owen boys were students at the school of Philipp Emanuel von
                        Fellenberg.
               Courtesy Burgerbibliothek, Bern, 
                            Switzerland
                        .
            
            
            
               
                  ROBERT DALE OWEN Portrait attributed to David Dale Owen.
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            "I may confidently assert that three fourths of those who left 
                        New Harmony
                    , left it with regret for the social kindness and the quiet and perfect toleration it
                    afforded, and with a strengthened conviction of the practicality and advantages of
                        cooperation."7
            
            "
                        New Harmony
                    , then, has been useful both as an example and a beacon; an example to prove how much
                    happiness social equality and tolerant principles can produce, and a beacon to warn us against the
                    shoals of imprudence and the breakers of precipitancy."8
            
            
               
                  7
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Free Enquirer, June 10, 1829.
               
                        8
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        DAVID DALE OWEN
                    
               "A mind alive to natural science finds even in the sands of the sea shore a lesson, and
                        in the pebble by the brook a subject for contemplation."9
               
            
            
               
                  WILLIAM OWEN Attributed to David Dale Owen.
               "William … remarked he thought people would often do better to succumb to
                        circumstances for a time, than resolve so and so must be done to endeavor to force circumstances
                        to admit of it."10
               
               Courtesy Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Old Fauntleroy Home, 
                            New Harmony
                        .
            
            
               
                  9
                        
                            New Harmony
                         Calendar, 1901.
               
                  10 Robert Dale Owen Daily Memorial or Journal, p. 23, in the possession of
                        Mrs. Bewley Allen, 
                            New Harmony
                        .
            
            
            
               
                        RICHARD OWEN
                    
            
            
               
                        JANE DALE OWEN FAUNTLEROY
                    
               Courtesy Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Old Fauntleroy Home.
               Neither the artist nor the date of this portrait is known. However, Jane's daughter
                        Constance, writing from 
                            New Harmony
                         on November 28, 1850, to her uncle, Richard, at Blue Lick Springs, 
                            Kentucky
                        , stated: "Mama took her first sitting today for her picture by Mr. [John]
                        Chappellsmith." [Constance Fauntleroy to Richard Owen, November 28, 1850, Private
                        Collection]
            
            
            The only surviving daughter of Robert Owen, Jane Dale came to the 
                        United States
                     after the deaths of her mother and two sisters, all within the space of two years. The
                    intellectual equal of her better-known brothers, she assisted them in their work (David in
                    particular), organized and conducted schools— sometimes in conjunction with her
                    sister-in-law, Mary Jane Owen (Mrs. Robert Dale Owen); lectured, and helped with written reports.
                    The loss of her beloved husband, Robert Henry Fauntleroy, in 1849 was a blow from which she never
                    fully recovered.
            
                    RICHARD OWEN
                
            "About my brothers and myself I will give you news in brief. Robert and William were already
                    in Harmonie before we left Hofwyl to help my father in his attempt to develop the community system.
                    Dale and I after we had remained in 
                        Glasgow
                     for a year in order to further carry on chemistry and mathematics emigrated also to
                    America [1827]. We found my father however not quite so hopeful as earlier because things did not go
                    according to his wishes. Probably first because he believed that he knew people better than was the
                    case in fact, and second because there were almost seven hundred different and among them evil
                    people together and lastly [because] some of the expected improvements were unobtainable. My father
                    went back to 
                        England
                     and now occupies himself with the trade unions in 
                        London
                    . In Harmonie he lost most of his fortune but he is nevertheless still very active and
                    he is happy. In the meantime we remained in Harmonie Robert edited a liberal newspaper for a while
                    and wrote some useful books in 
                        New York
                    . He married there a girl with whom he lives very happily. William is a merchant, Dale
                    who again during his year in 
                        London
                     has studied chemistry now devotes himself totally to this science. He has a very
                    beautiful laboratory and makes great progress. My Mother and two sisters died after we left 
                        England
                    . The only remaining sister whom we all love very much lives with my brothers. For six
                    years I also lived in Harmonie; I married and was farming. My wife however died and since I had lost
                    my own health during the long care of my sick wife I came here in order to restore it. My health I
                    have well regained through very hard work in a brewery where I still am."11
            
            
               
                  11 Richard Owen to Philipp Emanuel von Fellenberg, January 18, 1835,
                        Fellenberg Archiv (Burgerbibliothek, Bern, 
                            Switzerland
                        ).
            
            
            
               
                        THE PHALANSTERY
                    
            
            
            
                    THE PHALANSTERY
                
            Being a man much given to the use of the visual arts in his New Lanark schools, Robert Owen had had
                    engraved a picture of a proposed village for mutual cooperation as early as 1817, 1818, or 1819 to
                    present before the House of Commons. For his promotional talks and lectures in the 
                        United States
                     he and the architect, Stedman Whitwell, were armed with both a drawing of "the
                    New Communities at Harmony in the state of Indiana North America" by William Finley, and a large six-foot-square model of the ideal community that he proposed at 
                        New Harmony
                    . In his speech of March 27, 1825, Owen had described his plan in considerable detail.
            On his return trip to the 
                        United States
                     the following November, Owen, Whitwell, and Captain Donald Macdonald displayed the
                    drawings and model at public meetings in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The model was on display for a short time at Rembrandt Peale's museum in 
                        New York
                    , and in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., it was placed for a time in the White House.12 The 
                        Washington
                    
                    National Intelligencer of December 6, 1825, gave a very favorable account of the
                    model and Owen's plan for construction of the edifice. According to Owen's
                    intention, it was to be erected about three miles south of the present town "on the high
                    lands of Harmony from 2 to 4 miles from the [
                        Wabash
                    ] river and its island of which the occupants will have a beautiful and interesting view
                    …."
            The distance between model and drawings and the concrete village of cooperation was a long one. Words
                    and pictures proved much easier to produce than the real phalanstery. There is, in fact, very little
                    mention of it in the primary sources. On June 5, 1825, when Owen was terminating his first trip to
                    America and returning to 
                        Scotland
                    , Macdonald, who was accompanying him, wrote in his diary: "We rode by the
                    proposed site of a New town which is to be commenced on Mr. Owen's return. It is near the 
                        Springfield
                     road, 3 miles from Harmony. Choice has been made of this spot, because it is a flat
                    space of from 400 to 500 yards square with the ground falling away on every side. It is a convenient
                    distance from Harmony, and has excellent timber standing on it."13
            
            
               
                  12 Johnson, Robert Owen in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , 47-51; Frank Podmore, Robert Owen: A Biography (
                            London
                        , 1907), 217-19, 290; Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., Backwoods Utopias: The
                            Sectarian and Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in America, 1663-1829 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1950), 128, 129.
               
                  13 Caroline Dale Snedeker, ed., The Diaries of Donald
                            Macdonald, 1824-1826 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), 294-95.
            
            
            Later that summer, August 10, 1825, William Pelham, writing to his son, reported: "in 2 years, the contemplated new village will be ready for the reception of members,
                    as they are rapidly preparing materials." On September 9, 1825, he continued: "On
                    my way from Mt. Vernon, within three miles of this place, I came to an
                    extensive brick yard on the side of the road where a number of men were busily employed in making
                    bricks for the new village, the location of which will be on the opposite side of the
                    road." In response to an inquiry from his son, Pelham said on November 27, 1825:
                    '"How does the new village come on?' Not so fast as we wish, but as well
                    as can be expected. The brickmakers have been at work on the spot during the whole
                    summer and have made 240,000."14
            
            One is tempted to ask, along with Thomas Pears, "Where have the square palaces been built
                    … ? Where are the gardens?"15 There is still no answer.
            
               
                  14 "Letters to William Creese Pelham, 1825 and 1826," in
                        Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 365, 376, 394.
               
                  15 Thomas C. Pears, Jr., ed., 
                     
                                New Harmony
                            , an Adventure in Happiness: Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1933), 91-93.
            
            
            
               
                        MAP OF NEW HARMONY, INDIANA, C. 1826, DRAWN BY ROBERT DALE OWEN
                    
               Courtesy: map, 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute; photograph. Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
               
                        LAYOUT OF NEW HARMONY, INDIANA, 1834, SKETCH BY CHARLES ALEXANORE LESUEUR
                    
               Reproduced from E. T Hamy, "Les Voyage du Naturaliste Ch Alex. Lesueur dans
                        l'Amerique du Nord (1815-1837)," Journal de la Society des
                            Americanistes de 
                                Paris
                            , V (1904), 54. Photograph. Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
                    SKETCHES BY CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
                
            Charles Alexandre Lesueur, scientist, artist, teacher, and one of the passengers on the keelboat Philanthropist, made over 1,200 sketches of his journey on the "Boatload
                    of Knowledge" from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Mt. Vernon, Indiana, December 8, 1825, to January 23, 1826. His
                    pictures of towns, burgeoning cities, and rural scenes are priceless visual records of the
                    developing young republic.
            
               
                  SKETCH OF A KEELBOAT WITH NINE MEN ON ITS ROOF, FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1826.
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society, 
                     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                  .
            
            
            
               
                        VIEW OF FIVE MILE CREEK SEEN THROUGH THE FRONT WINDOW OF THE PHILANTHROPIST, MONDAY, JANUARY 16, 1826
                    
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society.
            
            
               
                        WHARF AT MOUNT VERNON, INDIANA, JANUARY 23, 1826.
                    
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society
            
            
            
               
                        THE PHILANTHROPIST'S DEPARTURE FROM CINCINNATI IS
                            RECORDED BY LESUEUR IN TWO SIMILAR SKETCHES. THEY BOTH SHOW A GROUP OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
                            DRAWN CAREFULLY AND DISTINCTLY. LOOKING OUT THE DOOR. REPRODUCED IS THE SMALLER SKETCH WHICH
                            IS RELATIVELY UNKNOWN.
                    
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society.
            
            
               
                  NEW HARMONY AS GLIMPSED FROM THE WABASH RIVER, MAY 17, 1826.
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society
            
            
            
               On the picture above, the date, "15th July, 1830," appears to be in David Dale
                        Owen's handwriting. The remainder of the identification was written by Richard Owen:
                        "Taken from S. on top of a hay stack." Richard then uses a series of marks
                        representing birds to indicate the buildings: v Old Stable: vv No. 1 Boarding House, the first
                        Harmonist community building erected in 1817; vvv No. 1 School House, built by the Owen
                        Community; vvvvv Brick Church; vvvvvv Frame Church; vvvvvvv Yellow Tavern (frame). Courtesy
                        Kenneth Dale Owen
               Courtesy Kenneth Dale Owen
            
            
            Nomenclature for the Harmonist community buildings has become confused over the years. The Harmonists
                    themselves used just the numeral alone, as "No. 1," sometimes preceded or followed
                    by "house," or the numeral and "Brüder Haus." The
                    Owenite community called them by the numeral and/or the function they served at the time, as
                    "No. 1 Boarding House," the "Tavern." Over the years the same
                    buildings have been called variously: Rooming House No—, Community Building
                    No—, Dormitory No—, Dwelling House No—.
            
               
                        VIEW OF NEW HARMONY FROM THE SOUTH
                    
               An original pencil sketch giving a view of Church Street looking northwest and showing Father
                        George Rapp's house and the Granary. According to faint writing on the frame in which
                        the drawing was mounted: "Drawn from old painting |?| of D. D. Owen |?| by H. B. |or P.
                        ?| Rogers." Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
               
                        NEW HARMONY [PROBABLY MAY, 1826] BY CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUKUR
                    
               In foreground the Harmonist frame church and behind it the Harmonist brick church, called the
                        Hall by the Owen Community. At the left the Harmonist Tavern.
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society
            
            
               
                        NEW HARMONY, NOVEMBER 15, 1831, BY CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
                    
               Looking east on Church Street from West Street. On the left the Harmonist Granary,
                        Lesueur's house; on the right the Hall.
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society
            
            
            
               Looking north from the doorway of the Hall, in Harmonist times the Door of Promise located at the
                        north entrance of the brick church. At the left is a view of Lesueur's house. Sketch by
                        Charles Alexandre Lesueur.
               Courtesy William K Wilson: original drawing Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Le Havre. 
                            France
                        
               
            
            
            
                    HARMONIST BUILDINGS PUT TO NEW USES
                
            When Robert Owen purchased Harmony, Indiana, from George Rapp and the Harmony Society on January 3,
                    1825, he acquired a completely established town that was to receive an influx of new population
                    within the next few months. Though Owen's ultimate plan for implementing his new moral
                    world involved the building of the "new town," he and the members of his community
                    accommodated the existing Harmonist structures to their own uses.
            After the dispute between Owen and William Maclure in May, 1827, the latter acquired many of the
                    large public buildings in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The Disseminator, which was published by Maclure's School
                    of Industry press, devoted a number of its early issues to diagrammatic sketches of these important
                    buildings along with the descriptions of their altered functions. The illustrations which follow are
                    selected from this group.
            
               Below is the Harmony Society brick church, built in 1822. Owen and his group renamed it the Hall,
                        sometimes spoken of as "the town hall," and put it to various uses: concerts,
                        dancing, lectures, theatrical performances, and other kinds of public entertainment.
            
            
            
            
            
               The Harmonist frame church, built about 1816, was taken over by William Maclure's School
                        of Industry during the Owen Community period and after. It was usually called the
                        Mechanic's Atheneum, sometimes the Steeple House.
            
            
               No. 2, completed in 1822 to serve the Harmony Society as a communal house (Bruder Hausl, was put
                        to manifold and diversified uses by the Owen Community. At various times it accommodated
                        schools, stores, hotels, a rooming house, and meeting places for social and civic organizations.
                        It was, in short, a real community center. |Local History File, 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
                    OWEN BUILDINGS
                
            Information on buildings constructed during the Owen Community period and into the 1830s is sparse.
                    Two structures built about 1826 were the Commissary and No. 1 School House, for which there are only
                    sketches. The John Beal house, dating from about 1829, still exists, as do the two Johnson and
                    Bondsley dwellings, which these contractors put up in 1830. They are the 1830 house at Brewery and
                    Tavern streets and the Fretageot-Hodge home at Main and Steam Mill streets.
            John Beal, a twenty-nine-year-old carpenter, came to 
                        New Harmony
                     with his young family on the Boatload of Knowledge and erected his dwelling on the site
                    of the Harmony Society horse barn. Employing the wattle and daub technique used in 
                        England
                     as early as the sixteenth century, Beal built most of the house from materials
                    previously used. Saplings were interwoven with small strips of wood set into a mortised and tenoned
                    wood frame, and the interstices were filled with mud. Then the clay on the surface was tooled so
                    that it could hold plaster. The ceiling was made in a fashion not dissimilar to that used in
                    Harmonist buildings.
            It was this same Beal, a teacher of carpentry in Maclure's School of Industry, along with
                    some others, who made the repairs to several Harmonist buildings that by 1828 were already beginning
                    to deteriorate. The Maclure-Fretageot correspondence of the years 1828-1832 has numerous complaints
                    about the bad roofs, floors, and especially the foundations in the Granary, the Hall, No. 2, and No.
                    5 (the Rapp-Maclure house).16 One technique, the pise type of building, was
                    highly recommended by Maclure who said:
            Do not use wood, whose perishable quality and liability to harbor noxious insects is to be avoided,
                    but pise, a mixture of gravel, sand and clay rammed solidly between a shifting frame, might,
                    perhaps, fulfill all the requisites of durability, health and economy for buildings. With a coat of
                    whitewash it has the solid, handsome appearance of a stone building and might be roofed with tiles
                    or slates that should make it fire proof. It might be heated by hot air or steam by the latest
                    improvement in the construction of kitchens.17
            
            
               
                  16 Maclure-Fretageot Correspondence (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute).
               
                  17 Mrs. Nora C. Fretageot Writings, ibid.
               
            
            
            Maclure's advice was followed, and a number of these buildings were built. Some of them
                    lasted for many years. In the instance of the Maclure sisters' cottage, however, the
                    pisé kitchen fell in 1832 and destroyed much of their valuable glassware and china.18
            
            
               Today called the 1830 House because of the date, May 15, 1830, incised on the keystone of the
                        flat arch over the central door, this building was owned and probably built by the Owen
                        brothers.
               Courtesy Pauline Meyer.
            
            
               
                  18 Local History File, ibid.
               
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
                    THE COMMISSARY
                
            This building is one of a very few known Owen Community structures. At the time that it was razed in
                    the early 1900s a story about it appeared in the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Times: the Commissary
                        was among the first houses build by the English colony after they bought the land from the
                            Rappites. It was built in 1825 and 1826. Its peculiarity of structure always brought it
                            under the notice of strangers who remarked that the windows were all on one side of the
                            house.
                        This was explained to the writer by David Schnee who says that the building was only half
                            completed. Mr. Schnee says it was the intention of the builders to add another side to the
                            house leaving the hall directly in the center For many years the holes were left in the
                            south wall where it was expected that the unbuilt half would be joined.
                    
            
            It served several functions besides those implied by its name, including post office and housing
                    accommodations.
            
            
            
               
                        "22 AUG 1829 NATURE-PART OF STEAM MILL ST N. HARMONY, IA W. OWEN INV ET
                            DEL"
                    
               Added later, apparently in Richard Owen's writing, is the statement: "(I). I).
                        Owen's First Laboratory drawn by my bro William i." Richard's
                        statement is misleading. Since the sketch does not picture David's
                        first laboratory, Richard perhaps meant to indicate that it was drawn from the
                        laboratory. More likely, however, William was drawing from the second floor of the Harmonist
                        House No. 1 and not from its adjoining kitchen, which was David's first laboratory and
                        only one story high. The sketch does show the Owen Commissary at the right.
               Courtesy Kenneth Dale Owen.
            
            
            
               
                        "No 1 SCHOOL HOUSE NO 1 BOARDING HOUSE AND OLD KITCHEN IN FRONT TAKEN
                            FROM NORTH AUG 12 1830," SKETCH BY DAVID DALE OWEN
                    
               No. 1 School House was built by Robert Owen in 1826 and was used as a school with board for the
                        children; in 1828 it was used as a ballroom and for lectures. No. 1 Boarding House with its
                        kitchen was built by the Harmonists in 1816 and was used by the Owen Community for boarding and
                        lodging.
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
               
                        WILLIAM MACLURE
                    
               Courtesy Academy of Natural Sciences. 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
            
            
            
                    WILLIAM MACLURE
                
            William Maclure, for several years Robert Owen's partner in the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment, had definite opinions regarding the education of women: "The
                    improvement of mankind has lost the aid and assistance of half the population by the education of
                    women being confined to their physical accomplishments and their mental faculties so much neglected
                    … Full half of the necessary and useful occupations of life at present monopolized by
                    men, could be better executed by the nimble fingers and active flexible hands of women and
                        children."19 These stated principles were strong enough that in
                    Maclure's will of November, 1827, he named Madame Marie Fretageot and Frances Wright as his
                    trustees and spelled out in the will his reasons for choosing women. He stated that in his
                    experience men, as trustees, had betrayed the poor by seizing and diverting to other purposes monies
                    left in their care. "I, therefore, make females my trustees; as conceiving them more
                    faithful." Maclure also considered women to be better fitted for the teaching of children.
                    They were, he said, more patient, milder, not prone to use force immediately where they found
                    opposition, and most fit to teach the Pestalozzian system.20
            
            His will is most advanced for its time in yet another way: Madame Fretageot and Frances Wright were
                    to expend a large proportion of the revenues from his properties "for the purpose of
                    establishing, maintaining, and supporting a colony of free coloured people on the lands in the
                    vicinity of 
                        New Harmony
                    " that Maclure had purchased from Frederick Rapp.21
            
            
               
                  19 William Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects, Dedicated
                            to the Industrious Producers (3 vols., 
                            New Harmony
                        , 183¢, I, 64.
               
                  20 William Maclure's will, Fretageot Collection 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
               
                        21
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               Courtesy Academy of Natural Sciences.
               Original port¢ by Charles Willson Peale.
            
            
                    THOMAS SAY
                
            Thomas Say was one of the natural scientists from 
                        Philadelphia
                     who was persuaded by William Maclure to come to 
                        New Harmony
                    . Say had been one of the founders of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and the curator of the American Philosophical Society from 1821 to 1827. He had also
                    taught natural history at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Museum. His works on entomology and conchology gained him a national, and lasting,
                    reputation. He married Lucy Way Sistare in 1827. Lucy worked closely with her husband and helped
                    particularly in coloring the plates of the Conchology, published at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1830.22
            
            
               
                  22 Harry B. Weiss and Grace M. Ziegler. Thomas Say: Early
                            American Naturalist
                        
                            Springfield
                        . Ill., 1931.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
                    MADAME MARIE DUCLOS FRETAGEOT
                
            One historian of the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment wrote of Marie Duclos Fregateot: "
                        New Harmony
                     was Madame Fre-tageot's monument as truly as it was Rapp's or
                    Owen's or Maclure's. The wise management she had given at the outset enabled
                    Maclure's threefold enterprise to function effectively throughout the succeeding decade,
                    and to spread its influence beyond."23 Of her educational endeavors
                    Madame Fretageot herself commented:
                        My school is going on pretty well. The twelve young men are now entirely in the House. They
                            board and sleep here; their progress are very obvious as well in their study as in their
                            manner. 1 get up regularly at four o'clock. The lessons for that class finishes at
                            half after six, they go their different occupations till eight, they return for their
                            breakfast; and at nine to eleven the class of the children under twelve; at two
                            o'clock the same children till four; at six all the children above twelve,
                            including the boarders, till eight. The other hours I am occupied cooking for the whole
                            family. I may say that I have but very little the occasion of wearing out the chairs of the
                            house, having not a single female to help me.24
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  23 Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., Education and Reform at 
                                New Harmony
                            : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot, 1820-1833
                            (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1948), 406. Bestor considered "Maclure's threefold
                        enterprise" to be the spreading of educational ideas, the thrust of scientific
                        activities, and the unique achievements in the publishing field carried on by Maclure's
                        School of Industry and the Workingmen's Institute.
               
                  24 Marie Duclos Fretageot to William Maclure, March 2, 1827, in Bestor,
                            Education and Reform at 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 390-91.
            
            
            
                    CHARLES ALEXANDRA LESUEUR
                
            Charles Alexandre Lesueur, one of the early naturalists who was interested in all branches of
                    science, made significant contributions to the history of science in the 
                        United States
                    . He collected specimens in many fields—geology, conchology, ichthyology,
                    paleontology, archaeology—and frequently accompanied the descriptions of his findings
                    with careful and often beautiful sketches. A number of the pictures used in this article illustrate
                    various facets of Lesueur's career: the natural scientist, the teacher, the field
                    naturalist, and the artist.
            
               Courtesy Academy of Natural Sciences. Original portrait by Charles Willson Peale.
            
            
            
               
                  MADAME MARIE DUCLOS FRETAGEOT AND CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUEUR, BY JOHN
                        CHAPPELSMITH, 1826
            
            
               
                  THOMAS AND LUCY WAY SISTARE SAY, BY TITIAN RAMSAY PEALE, 1830
               Courtesy Historie 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute. Original portrait by David Dale Owen.
            
            
                    JOSEPH NEEF
                
            In a letter to Madame Fretageot, Maclure commented on "the Pestalozzian system as taught by
                    Mr. Neef, who I have reason to believe by experience has taught it in greater perfection than ever
                    it was taught before. Neef, like all men, has his failings, but as a teacher he has made more clever
                    men for the number he was allowed to educate than I believe ever came from any School on
                    earth…. By following all his pupils into man's estate, and judging of their
                    correct conduct, only two out of seventy have gone astray, and one of them only so upon the faith of
                    a step mother, which I have found not exact."25
            
            
               
                  25 William Maclure to Marie Duclos Kretageot. September 19, 1826, ibid., 367
            
            
            
               Courtesy New-York Historical Society, 
                            New York City
                        . Portrait by Henry Inman
            
            
                    FRANCES WRIGHT
                
            As an old man, the famous poet Walt Whitman, remembering being taken as a child to the Hall of
                    Science in 
                        New York
                     to hear Frances Wright, said: "We all loved her; fell down before her; her
                    very appearance seemed to enthrall us … she was more than beautiful; she was grand! It
                    was not feature simply but soul-soul. There was a majesty about her."26
            
            
               
                  26 Quoted in Richard Stiller, Commune on the Frontier: The
                            Story of Frances Wright (
                            New York
                        , 1972), 245.
            
            
            
               
                        FRANCES WRIGHT AND HER HUSBAND, GUILLAUME SYLVAN CASIMIR PHIQUEPAL
                            D'ARUSMONT
                    
            
            
               Courtesy Trustees of the Pierpont Morgan Library 
                            New York City
                        .
            
            
            
               
                  FRANCES WRIGHT AT 32 IN THE COSTUME ADOPTED BY THE NEW HARMONY COMMUNITY IN
                        1826
            
            
                    "In beauty there's something to hide and reveal
                    There's a thing which we decency call; The old system ladies display a great
                    deal, But the new system ladies—show all."27
               
                
            
               
                  27 Shawnee-Town 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Gazette, July 12, 1826, quoted in Bestor, Backwoods
                        Utopias. 222.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Academy of Natural Sciences Original portrait by Charles Willson Peale
            
            
               GERARD TROOST, C. 1823-1824
            Dr. Gerard Troost was the first president of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and one of its founders. He was also a professor of geology, chemistry, and mineralogy.
                    Troost came to 
                        New Harmony
                     as one of Maclure's coterie of scientists and taught in the 
                        New Harmony
                     schools until he left in the summer of 1827 to become professor of natural science at
                    the University of 
                        Nashville
                     in 
                        Tennessee
                    . From 1831 to 1839 he was state geologist of 
                        Tennessee
                    .28
            
            
               
                  28 Edward J. Nolan, A Short History of the Academy of Natural
                            Sciences of 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        . 1909), 7.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Purdue University Archives, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana. Pencil Sketch attributed to 
                            Virginia
                         Dupalais.
            
            
                    WILLIAM PELHAM
                
            William Pelham was a Revolutionary War surgeon, bookseller, and postmaster before coming to join
                    Robert Owen's community in 1825 where he became one of the first editors of the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette.
            
            
               Courtesy Purdue University Archives.
            
            
                    JOSEPH FAUNTLEROY
                
            Joseph Fauntleroy, a 
                        Virginia
                     planter and cultivated man, was attracted by the social ideas of Robert Owen. He came
                    to join the Owen Community in 1827. With him were his wife, Emily Carter Fauntleroy (a first
                    cousin), and eight children and four of Emily's brothers. Fauntleroy engaged in business
                    with William Taylor, forming a merchandising firm that prospered for two years but then was ruined
                    by the fraudulence of his partner.
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
                    VIRGINIA POULLARD DUPALAIS
                
            
               
                        Virginia
                     Poullard Dupalais was one of the passengers—along with her brother
                    Victor—who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     on the Boatload of Knowledge. The brother and sister were put in the care of Lesueur by
                    their parents. 
                        Virginia
                     was highly cultured and accomplished both in music and art. Samples of her art work
                    appear elsewhere in this article. As a student of Lesueur she learned drawing technique and taught
                    art in the schools during the days of the Owen Community and after. She married William A. Twigg in
                    1828. This portrait is found in her book of musical pieces.
            
            
               Courtesy Thomas C. Pears, III
            
            
                    SARAH PALMER (MRS. THOMAS CLINTON) PEARS
                
            With her husband and family of seven children, Sarah Pears came to 
                        New Harmony
                     early in June, 1825, and left in April, or early May, 1826. During this year Sarah and
                    Thomas wrote to their family in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , the Benjamin Bakewells, describing an important period of development in the history
                    of the Owen experiment. It is in Mrs. Pears' letter of March 10, 1826, that one finds the
                    expression "boatload of Knowledge," used thereafter to describe the group of
                    scientists and social reformers who came from 
                        Philadelphia
                     via 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on the keelboat Philanthropist and arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     in January, 1826.29 Family tradition among Pears descendants
                    attributes this portrait to John James Audubon. Audubon's wife, Lucy Bakewell, and Sarah
                    were related through the Bakewells. Audubon, Thomas Pears, and Thomas Bakewell were partners in a
                    grist mill at Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                     (1815-1816), before the Pearses came to 
                        New Harmony
                    .30
            
            
               
                  29 Pears, "
                            New Harmony
                        , an Adventure in happiness," 71.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 9.
            
            
            
               
                        JOSIAH WARREN
                    
            
            Josiah 
                        Warren
                     combined an inventive genius with the outlook of a social philosopher. Both a musician
                    and orchestra leader, he invented a new system of musical notation. His inventions in the field of
                    stereotyping and printing led particularly to his developing a press using a continuous roll of
                    paper. 
                        Warren
                     was deeply interested in communitarianism and established in 
                        Ohio
                     the village of Utopia (1847) and in 
                        New York
                     the village of Modern Times (1851). He developed the Time Store concept, a version of
                    which was employed in 
                        New Harmony
                     in the early 1840s.31
            
            
               
                        LABOR NOTE OR "TIME MONEY"
                    
            
            The use of labor-time as a medium of exchange was also an early idea of Robert Owen.
            
               
                  31 George H. Lockwood. The 
                                New Harmony
                             Movement
                        
                            New York
                        , 1905, 294-306; Bestor, Backwoods Utopias. 185.
            
            
            Dr. Edward Murphy came to 
                        New Harmony
                     as an orphan during the Owen Community days. Eventually he grew prosperous and
                    developed a keen interest in the Workingmen's Institute. During his several trips to Europe
                    he brought back gallery copies of famous masterpieces which he presented to the Institute. Since he
                    and his wife, Celeste Sophia Johnson, were childless, they decided to use their considerable fortune
                    to help build a fine new library and museum. In their wills they left an endowment to support the
                    activities of the Workingmen's Institute, from which also developed Murphy Auditorium.32
            
            
               
                  EDWARD MURPHY Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute
            
            
               
                  32 Lockwood, 
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Movement, 329; William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent:
                            The Story of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1964), 189-90.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            Cincinnati
                         Art Museum. MINER KILBOIRNE KELLOOG
               
            
            Miner Kilbourne Kellogg arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     on April 24, 1825, and departed with his family in the spring of 1827. He became a
                    painter, traveler, author, and diarist. This bust was done in wax by Hiram Powers in 1828.
            
            
               Courtesy Mrs Hugh Lee. JOHN COOPER
               
            
            John Cooper was one of the group of English farmers who helped to form Community No. 3, Feiba Peveli,
                    and who purchased a portion of the estate at its dissolution. Cooper and his family had their
                    portraits painted by Jacob Maentel in partial payment of a debt. Maentel, whose primitive
                    watercolors are much sought after, served under Napoleon. He later immigrated to the 
                        United States
                    , settling first in 
                        Baltimore
                    , then in several counties of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and finally in 
                        New Harmony
                    . He generally posed his subjects in their own home settings. Cooper is shown with his
                    dog Snap and his home and fields in the background.
            
            
               Courtesy Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
                        JAMES MAIDLOW
               
            
            One of the English farmers who helped to establish Feiba Peveli, sometimes called Community No. 3,
                    James Maidlow came to Indiana in 1818 and went first to what were known as the English Settlements
                    north of 
                        Evansville
                    . By 1825 he was in 
                        New Harmony
                     where he married a second time, his first wife having died in 1822. He, along with
                    James Elliott and John Cooper, helped to set up Community No. 3, for which he served as secretary
                    during its short existence. He continued to live on the land which had been purchased from Robert
                    Owen until old age forced him to enter the household of his son-in-law.33
                    According to family tradition, the watercolor portrait from which this picture was taken was that of
                    James Maidlow. The portrait is attributed to Jacob Maentel and was probably painted in the 1840s.
            
               
                  33 Local History File (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute); Maidlow family records in the possession of
                        family members.
            
            
            
                    OWEN COMMUNITY DOCUMENTS
                
            
               
                  OWEN COMMUNITY MINUTES BOOK Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute
            
            
            
                    OWEN COMMUNITY MINUTES BOOK (OPPOSITE PACE)
                
            Two sets of minutes are included in one volume: the Proceedings of the Preliminary Society (November
                    2, 1825-February 28, 1826) and the Minutes of the Convention for Forming a Constitution for the
                    Society at 
                        New Harmony
                     (January 25, 1826-February 6, 1826). The latter contains several drafts and proposals,
                    including the text of the constitution which was finally adopted. The illustration is page 1 of
                    these minutes and shows the votes cast for the committee that was selected to write the
                    constitution. Seven men, excluding Robert Owen and William Maclure who declared themselves
                    ineligible, were elected. Thomas C. Pears was the secretary of the convention, and the writing is
                    mainly his.
            
               
                  DEED TO NEW HARMONY Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute
            
            
            
               Courtesy Mrs. Thomas Mumford.
            
            
            
                    OWEN COMMUNITY PROBATIONARY CONTRACTS
                
            Only a few probationary contracts signed by new members joining the Owen Community still exist. The
                    wording differs slightly in each, but the contents are essentially the same.
            
            
                    SCHOOLS
                
            Mrs. Sarah Cox Thrall described in her later years what it was like to be a pupil in the Owen
                    Community schools. In the summer the girls wore coarse linen; in winter, heavy wool. On awakening, a
                    group of girls did the milking, which milk was utilized in cooking the mush the children ate in a
                    fifteen-minute breakfast period.
            
                    We had bread but once a week—on Saturdays. I thought if I ever got out, I would kill
                        myself eating sugar and cakes. We marched in military order, after breakfast, to Community House
                        No. 2. I remember that there were blackboards covering one side of the schoolroom, and that we
                        had wires, with balls on them, by which we learned to count. We also had singing exercises by
                        which we familiarized ourselves with lessons in various branches…. We went to bed at
                        sundown in little bunks suspended in rows by cords from the ceiling. Sometimes one of the
                        children at the end of the row would swing back her cradle, and, when it collided on the return
                        bound with the next bunk, it set the whole row bumping together. This was a favorite diversion,
                        and caused the teachers much distress.34
               
                
            The illustration is a beaded bracelet made by Sarah Cox while a pupil in the Owen Community schools.
            
               Courtesy Helen Elliott.
            
            
               
                  34 Quoted in Lockwood, 
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Movement, 246-47.
            
            
            Instruments used by Phiquepal d'Arusmont in his teaching: sliding triangle used to measure
                    all triangles (made in 
                        Paris
                     especially for d'Arusmont); abaci invented by d'Arusmont and brought
                    from 
                        Paris
                    ; keyboard for transposing keys; bells used in musical instruction.
            
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
                    ART
                
            Art played an important role in the 
                        New Harmony
                     schools. It was considered a highly significant subject in the curricula by both Robert
                    Owen and William Maclure, who, though violently disagreeing on many aspects of the educational
                    system, were united in their attitudes toward art. The faculty included: Charles Alexandre Lesueur,
                    painting and drawing; Martha Chase, drawing and music; 
                        Virginia
                     Poullard Dupalais, drawing and watercolor; Lucy Way Sistare, drawing and watercolor;
                    Balthazar Obernesser, painting. These outstanding teachers taught very talented students, and
                    members of both groups achieved considerable reputations in their own lifetimes and after. Mention
                    is made of the art classes by those who participated, and the surviving pencil sketches and
                    watercolors attest to the superior quality of the instruction.
            
               Courtesy Kenneth Dale Owen.
            
            Richard Owen, in a letter to David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    , wrote of Charles Alexandre Lesueur: "He was a magnificent artist, good alike
                    in drawing and coloring. I have some of his sketches yet, in which, when I was taking drawing
                    lessons from him, he showed me how to outline, for instance, the skeleton of the human figure, then
                    to add the muscular system, then the clothing, drapery, etc. We usually took views from
                        nature."35 The sketch is signed C. A. LeSueur. The date, June 28,
                    1830, is in handwriting attributed to David Dale Owen.
            
               
                  35 Quoted in David Starr 
                            Jordan
                        , "Charles Alexandre Lesueur," Popular Science
                            Monthly, XLVI (February, 1895), 549-50.
            
            
            
               
                  HEAD OF A HORSE BY DAVID DALE OWEN Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
                    DRAMA
                
            The Thespian Society was first organized by William Owen, probably in the fall of 1827. Richard Owen
                    describes it: "We had a good Thespian Society here, to which I belonged. I took a part in
                    William Tell, was one of the number who would not take off his cap. My brother William's
                    wife, then Mary Bolton, was Tell's son Albert; she was in boy's clothing, and she
                    played it well."36 The south wing of the Hall, or brick church, was
                    used as a theater. The walls, frescoed and painted with Swiss scenes by Charles Alexandre Lesueur
                    for "William Tell," were still there in 1874 when the church was torn down.
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
               
                  36 Jacob Schneck and Richard Owen, The History of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., 1890), 11.
            
            
            
                    DANCING
                
            "we collected together in the house No. 2, appointed for a school-house, where all the young
                    ladies and gentlemen of quality assembled. In spite of the equality so much
                    recommended, this class of persons will not mix with the common sort, and I believe that all the
                    well brought up members are disgusted, and will soon abandon the society. We amused ourselves
                    exceedingly during the whole remainder of the evening, dancing cotillions, reels and
                    waltzes…. New figures have been introduced among the cotillions, among which is one
                    called the new social system."37
               
            
            
            
               
                  37 Karl Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar Eisenach, "Travels through
                        North America, during the Years 1825 and 1826," in Lindley, Indiana as
                            Seen by Early Travelers, 431.
            
            
            
                    NEW HARMONY IMPRINTS
                
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
                    SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES
                
            When William Maclure, who shared Robert Owen's enthusiasm in social reform through the
                    application of education and science, decided to join Owen in his experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                    , he brought with him some of the most eminent men of science then living. Frequently
                    called the Father of American Geology, Maclure persuaded, among others, two great natural scientists
                    to become members of the community: Thomas Say, who worked in the areas of zoology and conchology;
                    and Charles Alexandre Lesueur, the artist-naturalist, whose inquiries in ichthyology and archaeology
                    place him among the earliest pioneers in these fields.
            Maclure attempted to integrate teaching, research, and publishing. He succeeded by means of his
                    School of Industry where his teachers used Pestalozzian principles, the scientists investigated and
                    wrote up their findings, and the students, under the guidance of skilled engravers, turned out on
                    the School Press some of the most beautiful specimens of the bookmaker's art surviving to
                    this day.
            As the communal aspects of the 
                        New Harmony
                     undertaking began to fail, the educational and scientific program of the community
                    began to flower, and 
                        New Harmony
                     became the focal point of activity in the natural and earth sciences west of the
                    Alleghenies from 1826 to the Civil War.
            Other scientists, whose activities covered numerous fields, were: Gerard Troost, geologist and
                    foremost mineralogist, who joined Lesueur on geological expeditions and taught in the community
                    schools (see p. 231); Stedman Whitwell, architect, whose meteorological recordings were published in
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette; Samuel Bolton, chemist, whose experiments in 1828 aided in the use of gas
                    for heating and lighting the meeting room in No. 2 of the Society for Mutual Instruction; James
                    Sampson, collector of natural history specimens, particularly shells, fossils, and archaeological
                    artifacts (many are still to be found in the Workingmen's Institute); and Robert Henry
                    Fauntleroy, scientist and inventor, astronomer, geodetic surveyor, bridge builder.
            
            
               This map, accompanying William Maclure's Observations on the Geology of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , is considered the earliest attempt at a geological map of this country.
                        The memoir, result of fifty trips traversing the Alleghenies, was first published by the
                        American Philosophical Society in its Transactions (Vol. I, New Series, 1809).
                        A second and revised edition appeared in 1817, again in the Transactions, but
                        it was also issued as a separate volume.
            
            
            
               Title page drawn by Charles Alexandre Lesueur for Thomas Say's American
                            Entomology, or Descriptions of the Insects of North America … (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1824). Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc CICHLA AENEA BY CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
               
            
            Joseph Jackson, an authority on lithography, considers Lesueur's effort to be the first real
                    lithograph made in the 
                        United States
                    .38 The drawing first appeared in the Journal of the
                        Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                            Philadelphia
                        
                in June, 1822.
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen"s Institute
            
            Plate 17 from Thomas Say's American Conchology, or Descriptions of the Shells
                        of North America … (
                        New Harmony
                    , 1830).
            
               
                  38 George H. Eckhardt, "Early Lithography in 
                            Philadelphia
                        ," Antiques. XXVIII (December, 1935), 249.
            
            
            
                    INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGY
                
            The names of 
                        New Harmony
                    's star-studded scientists are well known; those of her inventors, rather less
                    so: Oliver Evans, Jr., and Robert Henry Fauntleroy, to name just two. Evans and Fauntleroy were
                    contemporaries; they were both married to women of distinguished ancestry and distantly related to
                    each other through these marriages. They lived successively in the same house (at Evans'
                    death Fauntleroy purchased the Harmonist frame building). They apparently worked together, for the
                    designs and drawings of Evans ultimately became the possessions of Fauntleroy in whose personal
                    papers they survived.
            Evans, youngest son of the inventor of high pressure engines, steam carriages, and milling systems,
                    was influenced by the rich heritage of his father. He married Louisa, the eldest daughter of Joseph
                    Neef, in 1827 and came to live in 
                        New Harmony
                    . There he taught in the Owen Community schools, joined the Education Society, began
                    operation of an iron foundry, manufactured cast plows, operated a sawmill, set up a grist mill to
                    make use of his steam engine, and farmed. Numerous very handsome colored drawings of engines and
                    their parts still remain.39
            
            Fauntleroy, scientist, inventor, engineer, and musician, also came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1827 with his sister, Emily Carter Fauntleroy, and brother-in-law, Joseph
                    Fauntleroy, a first counsin. Robert married Robert Owen's daughter, Jane Dale, in 1835. He
                    taught and lectured on astronomy, made meteorological reports, and accompanied David Dale Owen on
                    some of his geological surveys. His fertile, active mind developed plans for a gunlock, a fly
                    driver, an "elliptograph," a "Self-registering Log" for vessels,
                    a weaving and carding machine, and a telescope. As an expert in mechanical drawing he was
                    particularly interested in undershot and overshot water-power wheels, steam engines, and cotton and
                    grist mills. Drawings, patent proposals, and his instrument, the Fauntlerolicon, may be seen in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute.40
            
            
               
                  39 The main sources for information about Evans is the Maclure-Fretageot
                        Correspondence.
               
                  40 Ross F. Lockridge, The Old Fauntleroy Home (
                            New Harmony
                         Memorial Commission, 1939); Jane Dale Owen Fauntleroy, "Records of a
                        Beloved Life for My Children," 
                            New Harmony
                         State Memorial Collection (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute).
            
            
            
               
                        OLIVER EVANS JR
                    
            
            
               
                  ROBERT HENRY FAUNTLEROY Courtesy Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Old
                        Fauntleroy Home
            
            
            
               
                  
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
               
                  
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
               
                  ELLIPTOGRAPH
                        
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute
            
            
            
               
                  SECTION OF A CARDING MACHINE
                        
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
               
                  VIEW OF NEW HARMONY BY CHARLES ALEXANDRE LESUEUR Courtesy American
                        Philosophical Society
            
            
            
                    A TOAST TO NEW HARMONY
                
            In addition to the usual holidays, the people of 
                        New Harmony
                     celebrated the birthday of Thomas Paine and the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                     on January 8, 1815. The issue of the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette of January 9, 1828, reported on the celebration of the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                     anniversary which was signalized by the playing of military music, the ringing of bells
                    and firing of cannon, a splendid ball, and the drinking of toasts. Among many of these was one to
                    the town:
            
                    "May the light of Truth continue to emanate, and at length shine out so refulgent, that
                        Error shall fly trembling before it."
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews The Paradox of Progressive Education: The Gary Plan and Urban
                    Schooling. By Ronald D. Cohen and Raymond A. Mohl. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1979. Pp. viii, 216. Tables, note on sources, notes, index.
                    $15.00.)
            This study of the Gary plan is both a piece of local history and an exploration of the general
                    character of educational change in the early twentieth century. It focuses on the most celebrated
                    educational reform of the Progressive Era and studies the impact of that reform both in Gary,
                    Indiana, where the plan originated, and in other places where in varying degrees its influence was
                    also felt.
            The Gary plan combined the elements of many other progressive educational reforms with its own
                    distinctive platoon system, a scheme designed to ensure well-rounded training and efficient use of
                    facilities by dividing students into groups that would alternately use the school's
                    playgrounds, workshops, and classrooms. As did other progressive school reforms, the plan placed a
                    heavy emphasis on supervised play, industrial training, and close interaction between school and
                    community. Heavily promoted by its creator, Gary Superintendent of Schools William A. Wirt, and
                    supported by such luminaries as John Dewey and 
                        Randolph
                     Bourne, the Gary plan spread rapidly; by 1930 more than two hundred cities had adopted
                    the system for some or all of their schools.
            Ronald D. Cohen and Raymond A. Mohl see in this extraordinary appeal of the Gary plan an example of
                    the paradox of progressive education: the Gary reform drew its support from remarkably disparate
                    political sources. The authors explore this paradox by examining the views of the plan's
                    two primary promoters, the conservative Wirt and the social-democratic Alice Barrows, who managed to
                    work together in the common cause for more than two decades. The portrayals of Wirt and Barrows are
                    revealing, but Cohen and Mohl neither resolve the paradox of progressive education nor explain its
                    roots; they succeed only in providing one more example of the common tendency of progressive reform
                    to draw upon different, even contradictory, political impulses. Consequently, this is the least
                    satisfactory part of the book.
            The authors do better when they attempt to measure the impact of the reform on educational practice.
                    They give special attention to the controversy surrounding the plan in 
                        New York City
                     and in Gary itself, and they discover that reformers rarely won more than partial
                    victories. In 
                        New York
                    , in fact, school  authorities were forced to
                    abandon the plan altogether in the face of opposition from a polyglot of forces ranging from Jewish
                    socialists to Tammany politicians.
            In Gary the story was more complex. Wirt and his followers made substantial gains; yet, their
                    child-saving, Americanizing schemes encountered significant opposition. Many immigrants, for
                    example, resisted the homogenizing effects of reform either by sending their children to parochial
                    schools or by supplementing public-school classes with daily sessions of folk-schooling. Blacks,
                    too, refused to accept their prescribed place in the reform system; they both fought formal
                    segregation and subverted its aims by using their separate classrooms to teach racial pride. What
                    emerged in Gary was something less than the all-encompassing, socializing education that reformers
                    had sought; in the end educational change was not the simple reflection of reform goals but rather a
                    product of the interplay of a variety of interests.
            Cohen's and Mohl's recognition of the limits of reform makes their study a
                    substantial advance over much of the historical literature on progressive education. Unlike many of
                    their predecessors these authors refuse to see educational change through the eyes of reformers
                    alone; instead, they provide a much richer, more complex, and more believable account.
            This volume is an important study of education in the early twentieth century, especially for what it
                    tells about the course of reform in Gary. It is not, to be sure, without problems. Perhaps because
                    of the dual authorship, the book is sometimes disjointed and uneven. The sections that deal with
                    progressive educational thought, for example, add little to what is already known. Such weaknesses,
                    however, are minor problems when measured against the strengths of the book. On the whole the
                    authors have done their work extremely well; their research is impressive and their interpretations
                    convincing. In many respects they have produced a model piece of local educational history.
            B. Edward McClellan, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    
            
         
         
         
            
               Portraits and Painters of the Governors of Indiana, 1800-1978. By Wilbur D.
                    Peat. Revised and edited with new entries by Diane Gail Lazarus; biographies of governors by Lana
                    Ruegamer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Museum of Art, 1978. Pp. 104. Notes, illustrations, appendixes. Paperbound,
                    $5.00.)
            This book is obviously meant to supplement or replace an earlier work by Wilbur D. Peat entitled Portraits and Painters of the Governors of Indiana, 1800-1943, published by the
                    Indiana Historical Society in 1944. The editors of the volume under review set for themselves the
                    following purposes in updating the book: "First, it is hoped that the sketches [of the
                    governors' lives] will fill a need in Indiana history for a readable introduction to the
                    Governors themselves, and serve as a handy reference tool. And second it was believed that the
                    sketches, suggesting something of careers and personalities of the subjects, would add to the impact
                    of the portraits" (p. 8). So well do the editors accomplish their task that significant
                    adverse criticism would be hard to support.
            The book, though no doubt indebted to its predecessor, is far from being a
                    "rewrite" of the original Peat book. It is new in plan and in spirit and benefits
                    from the latest historical scholarship. Whereas Peat used small black-and-white pictures, the
                    present volume presents larger, more recognizable portraits, some of them in color. The addition of
                    the short biographical sketches of each governor is also new.
            Interesting and informative, this guide to the lives of the governors, their portraits, and their
                    portrait painters adds to the literature that has previously appeared in various forms. The book is
                    well organized and brings together, in one place, much valuable information about Indiana's
                    governors. The preface concisely explains the purpose of the volume, credits those who labored upon
                    it, and clarifies the arrangement of the items that are included. The book should be required
                    reading for every college student in Indiana. It offers much to the novice and to the specialist
                    from the standpoint of the depth of treatment, and it is a contribution to the history of art as
                    well as to the history of Indiana's governors. This is a small book on a very large
                    subject!
            Howard I. Eldon, Anderson Public Library, Anderson, Ind.
         
         
         
            
               Voice of the Democracy: A Critical Biography of David Graham Phillips, Journalist,
                        Novelist, Progressive. By Louis Filler. (University Park: The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     State University Press, 1978. Pp. 206. Bibliographic note, notes, index.
                    $13.50.)
            This is an intensive biographical and critical study of a turn-of-the-century journalist and novelist
                    who has been nearly forgotten today in American literature. Complaining that "Phillips is
                    as dead abroad as he is at home; but in addition, he is dead in Indiana" (p. 3), Filler
                    claims that Phillips is not really buried, that he was a defender of democracy, and that he is
                    relevant today. Much of the eclipse Phillips has suffered, says Filler, has been due to inaccurate
                    and unjust criticism. The purpose of this volume is to show that Phillips believed in the American
                    dream and advocated that the betrayers of that dream be exposed and restrained. Reluctantly a
                    muckraker, Phillips helped kindle public resentment against political corruption in his
                    "Treason of the Senate" series, which accused the Senate of subservience to
                    industrial interests; the series was also a factor in passing the Seventeenth Amendment, which
                    authorized direct election of 
                        United States
                     senators.
            In general, Filler is successful in his purpose. The book is a storehouse of information on Phillips,
                    his work, and his times. Born in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 1867, young Phillips was a sensitive and bookish dreamer who attended
                    Indiana Asbury College (now DePauw University) but was graduated from 
                        Princeton
                    , where he adopted a pessimistic view of life as a struggle. Phillips plunged into
                    journalism, working first in 
                        Cincinnati
                     then 
                        New York
                    . In both cities he quickly rose to the height of his profession and soon was a favorite
                    of Joseph Pulitzer. Experiencing a tragic love affair ending with the death of his beloved, he never
                    married. Despite his fame as a journalist, however, he felt constrained and developed a passionate
                    love of freedom and an ambition to become a novelist.
            Phillips' first book, The Great God Success (1901), chronicled the moral
                    failure of a newspaper publisher and was well received. As a result, Phillips left journalism. The Master-Rogue (1903), a portrait of a moneymaker, established him with the
                    liberal editors as the most promising writer since Hamlin Garland. Phillips defended business
                    because he believed that capitalism, by cleansing itself of undesirable elements, would serve the
                    workers. He was critical of the establishment in politics, but he was sentimental and declared that
                    love and compassion were the most important elements in life. 
                    Following Phillips' assassination in 1911 by a psychotic, several of his novels were
                    published posthumously. The best known was Susan Lenox: Her Fall and Rise (1917),
                    which debased Phillips' reputation. The book's theme was the cause of prostitution
                    and the influence of sex in life, and angry criticism denounced it as pornographic. It was later
                    withdrawn, although today it would be considered mild.
            Filler characterizes Phillips as modest, restless, rather quarrelsome, and difficult to please. He
                    worked hard, often writing all night. He was a realistic idealist, who searched for truth and
                    believed in progress and fortitude, and a fervent democrat, who was hurt by human anguish but failed
                    to recognize human weakness. Though Sinclair Lewis was his successor, Phillips' fiction was
                    much more daring in focusing on the rich and strong. Filler depicts the times of Phillips well, and
                        Voice of the Democracy abounds in references to people such as Theodore
                    Dreiser, Joseph Pulitzer, and Ida M. Tarbell.
            The reader may wish that the author had attempted to tell more about the genesis of
                    Phillips' ideas and books. Nowhere is there any definition of progressivism or its tenets
                    and manifestations; evidently Filler takes such knowledge for granted. The main defect of the
                    volume, however, arises through Filler's constant and often contemptuous criticism of other
                    scholars in this field. For example, he calls earlier criticism "pseudo criticism"
                    (p. 124); other critics are sometimes accused of being "mindless" (p. 129); I. F.
                    Marcosson is a "pseudobiographer" (p. 196) and an "almost incredibly
                    shallow man" (p. 192). 
                        Granville
                     Hicks is a "tainted critic" (p. 71), and Mark Schorer has a foolish
                    view (p. 198). Surely no such invective is justified. Nevertheless, the book is a valuable addition
                    to Phillips criticism.
            Arthur W. Shumaker, DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kentucky
                         in the New Republic: The Process of Constitution Making. By Joan Wells Coward. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1979. Pp. 220. Tables, maps, notes, appendix, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $16.50.)
            "Historians have rarely studied early 
                        Kentucky
                    " (p. 201), writes Joan Wells Coward in an appendix to this work, and if she
                    confines that assertion to the last four decades, she is certainly correct. Except for some fine
                    biographies, volumes by Patricia Watlington, Otis K. Rice, George M. Chinn, and a few others
                    represent the scarce output of more recent years.
            
            Given past interest in 
                        Kentucky
                    's prestatehood history, such a situation is surprising. Excellent early works
                    on the commonwealth have stood up well before historians' critiques (and the author of 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         in the New Republic should have cited them more often); yet, students of Clio
                    have done little to build on the foundations laid by these books or to question their conclusions.
                    This work is a welcome exception, for it is a thin, tight, well-balanced, and thoroughly researched
                    account of the way in which citizens of the first state west of the mountains went about making
                    constitutions in 1792 and 1799. 
                        Kentucky
                     thus served as a testing ground for the thoughts and theories on government in the new
                    West.
            After a readable background chapter, Coward turns, in a more difficult prose, to 
                        Kentucky
                    's initial effort at constitution-making. The 1792 document, she finds, had
                    eastern precedents but essentially was "more conservative than any other eighteenth century
                    American constitution" (p. 26) despite giving the broadest suffrage then existing in the 
                        United States
                    . Not surprisingly, frontier voters received scant satisfaction from the constitution
                    and in only seven years secured its revision. The absence of the office of lieutenant governor, the
                    electoral system that selected both governor and senators, and even the defense of slavery all came
                    under popular attack.
            Just as George Nicholas had dominated the first constitutional convention, so too did another
                    aristocratic former Virginian control much of the second. Attorney John Breckinridge led a
                    fragmented group that yielded on issues that had overwhelming public support but still preserved
                    enough conservative provisions to insure a continuance of their rule. The 1799 constitution allowed
                    popular election of major offices, for example, but retained slavery and even installed viva voce
                    voting to replace the ballot. The result, according to Coward, was that "virtually every
                    southern state that joined the Union after 1800 contained both 
                        Kentucky
                    's version of the Bill of Rights and 
                        Kentucky
                    's section on slave emancipation" (p. 166).
            Through analysis of voting blocs and roll calls, through clear and illustrative character sketches,
                    and through sound historical interpretation of the sources, Coward offers good support for her
                    assertions. Her conclusions will long be considered. Her revisions are several (e.g., Breckinridge
                    did not dominate proceedings as much as previously thought), and her errors are few (John Rowan was
                    not a 
                        Kentucky
                     governor). This is simply a good book, an important work, and a needed study.
            James C. Klotter, 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Historical Society, 
                            Frankfort
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Women in 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Helen Deiss Irvin. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1979. Pp. 133. Illustrations, sources. $4.95.)
            "Why a book about women in 
                        Kentucky
                    ? Because their past has been largely ignored" (preface). With directness,
                    simplicity, and clarity Helen Deiss Irvin introduces Women in 
                            Kentucky
                        . In this short, readable survey Irvin reclaims many women of the previous two
                    hundred years whom earlier scholars have either romanticized or consigned to oblivion.
            Adept with anecdotes which capture character, Irvin investigates a variety of heroines who were
                    either forced or willing to step beyond the traditional sphere and sentimentality of womanhood. For
                    example, physical courage dominates the experiences in 1775 of Mary Draper Ingles, a captive whose
                    brave escape and remarkable woodsmanship repelled not only hunger, exhaustion, wild animals, and
                    pursuing Indians but also a demented companion threatening cannibalism. Personal courage against
                    social strictures emerge in Jean Brandeis Tachau's efforts of the 1930s to launch a birth
                    control movement in 
                        Kentucky
                     even as others condemned the issue as too indelicate and controversial. Female
                    advocates with familiar family names— Laura 
                        Clay
                    , Sophonisba Breckinridge, Madeline McDowell Breckinridge—appear in a wider
                    reform context. In addition, Irvin surveys the less spectacular aspects of women's past,
                    from the solitude and self-sufficiency of homesteading to the "tolerably tiresome"
                    (p. 66) life of a lady. Throughout the text Irvin amply demonstrates her simple, unsurprising
                    thesis: "women were there, their lives are worth looking at, and often they contributed
                    more than they are given credit for" (preface).
            Irvin's volume, part of the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Bicentennial Bookshelf series, clearly classifies as compensatory history in
                    its concentration on the contributions of women, especially women worthies. Such monographs are
                    essential in filling the meager data bank and in fitting women's lives into the empty
                    spaces of historical scholarship. Yet Women in 
                            Kentucky
                        
                rarely offers questions or analyses more sophisticated than the "we
                    were there" approach. For example, only the chapter on "The Workers"
                    (benefiting from a better bibliographic base than some sections) really ventures beyond an emphasis
                    on notable individuals to a broader understanding of diverse and anonymous women. In the future,
                    basic demographic data and additional categories of inquiry (sexuality, role indoctrination, female
                    consciousness, etc.) will be needed; the limited treatment of Indian and black women also suggests
                    subjects for further scrutiny.  Nevertheless, as "a
                    small book dealing with a large subject" (preface), Irvin's study is a useful
                    start toward recapturing the past of 
                        Kentucky
                     women.
            Alice Almond Shrock, Earlham College, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               Tales of the 
                            Ohio
                         Land. By Jack Matthews. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, 1978. Pp. xiii, 187. Illustrations. $11.95.)
            Whatever the historian may think of the short stories in this book, he should find the introduction
                    an effective argument for the use of fiction in the study of history. The author, a professor of
                    English, sets forth an interesting explanation of how myth and legend give "distance and
                    dimensionality" to the past (p. xi). The present, he says, is often "petty,
                    trivial, even grubby" (p. xi); but the storyteller, starting his tales from reports of real
                    events or merely from a specific time and place, invests the past with a "more exalted,
                    more legendary" (p. xi) but yet, paradoxically, "more real" character (p.
                    xii). Matthews "invents" his stories for an 
                        Ohio
                     Land—they are set usually in the early nineteenth century—that
                    was largely rural and small town, before, he says, communications began to break down its peculiar
                    identity. In his tales tying together myth, legend, and a smattering of history, he seeks to
                    "visualize" a "reality that is called the 
                        Ohio
                     Land" (p. xiii).
            The reader may not be as certain as Matthews that a peculiar 
                        Ohio
                     Land ever existed, one, for example, that was noticeably different from a Hoosier Land.
                    Matthews does not really define unique attributes of 
                        Ohio
                    . His tales, nevertheless, seem to recreate the tenor of everyday life in 
                        Ohio
                    —even though occasionally they strike a Bierce-like, macabre note. They fall
                    into no particular groupings, but to a greater or lesser degree they do impart a kind of reality to
                    individual experiences that make up a collective past.
            Two tales are particularly engaging and instructive. In one, "Lucinda Hill Is Born
                    Again," Matthews rescues Johnny Appleseed from stereotyped, syrupy characterizations by
                    portraying him as a tough-minded theologian-psychologist who enables a sixteen-year-old girl to come
                    to terms with her feeling that she has died. Though a little tedious, "The Burial"
                    illustrates how successive generations twist the facts of a singular incident.
            Whatever the literary merit of Matthews' stories, they do leave one with a greater
                    appreciation of the role of imagination  in recreating history.
                    No less than the contrafactual models constructed by professional historians, they are, quite
                    possibly, a useful means of understanding the past.
            Carl M. Becker, Wright State University, 
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               Sanitation Strategy for a Lakefront Metropolis: The Case of 
                            Chicago
                        . By Louis P. Cain. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xv, 1973. Tables, notes, maps, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            Louis P. Cain's book is an admirable contribution to a dimension of urban history ignored by
                    scholars until recently. At one time the literature of this field was confined largely to social,
                    political, economic, and ethnic topics. During the past decade, however, historians have begun to
                    explore intensively the evolution of urban public-works infrastructures. In addition to studying
                    mass transit, street, and water supply systems, some scholars have been "getting
                    into" sewers. This murky and complex subject is fundamental to understanding the forces
                    that shaped the quality of urban life.
            In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries cities waged relentless—often
                    losing—battles against fouling their own nests. Sewers were built to collect and carry
                    away organic wastes and thereby to stop epidemics of cholera and typhoid that frequently ravaged
                    urban areas. Guarding the public's health, therefore, involved the construction of vast
                    wastewater systems that required sound engineering and the expenditure of large amounts of public
                    funds.
            This book is one of the few good case studies of urban sanitation. It surveys the evolution of 
                        Chicago
                    's sanitation strategy from the time of the city's founding with
                    respect to water supply, sewage disposal, and drainage. The community was fortunate to have an
                    inexhaustible freshwater supply at its doorstep—Lake
                    Michigan—but the natural terrain and drainage system posed the constant threat
                    of pollution. Cain builds his book around five major policy decisions that 
                        Chicago
                     adopted in order to maintain pure domestic water supplies and rid the city of wastes.
            
               
                        Chicago
                     grew rapidly in the 1880s, but it suffered from poor natural drainage and became a
                    quagmire after heavy rains. In 1855 a sewer system had been built. However, the outflows polluted
                        Lake Michigan, creating a serious public  health problem. Intake cribs for water were placed far out into the lake, but waterborne diseases
                    continued to fell the population.
            In 1889 the Sanitary District of 
                        Chicago
                     was created to develop an areawide drainage and sewage disposal scheme. Construction of
                    the historic Sanitary and Ship Canal, which diverted industrial and sanitary wastes into the Des
                    Plaines and Illinois rivers, began in 1892. The project, which involved the
                    excavation of over thirty million cubic yards of earth, was completed in 1900. The district
                    subsequently built the Calumet-Sag Channel that provided sewage disposal for the southern part of
                    the metropolitan area.
            Cain provides an excellent discussion of the way in which 
                        Chicago
                    's sanitation strategy spawned a host of environmental embroglios. Diverting
                        Lake Michigan water to dilute the city's sewage resulted in
                    lawsuits and protests from the federal government, 
                        Canada
                    , and Great Lakes states. These parties feared that diversions would seriously affect
                    lake levels. Furthermore, downstream cities such as 
                        St. Louis
                     undertook litigation to head off pollution of the 
                        Illinois
                     and Mississippi rivers. The development of sewage treatment
                    systems prior to World War II is also chronicled in Cain's book.
            The author could have strengthened the volume by devoting greater effort to public health issues and
                    by examining in more depth the intergovernmental aspects of his subject. The book's
                    greatest flaw, however, probably cannot be attributed to the author. The writing is sound and the
                    illustrations well chosen, but the design is irresponsible. The text is presented in a single
                    column, twenty-six picas wide, and is printed on 8V2-by-11-inch pages; consequently, the book is
                    needlessly long. In these times of soaring paper and production costs the publication of such a
                    volume by a university press is unconscionable.
            Despite the bad judgment of the publisher, the book is an admirable analysis of the legal, economic,
                    and technical decisions that comprised 
                        Chicago
                    's quest to rid itself of waste. Cain skillfully presents the alternatives
                    considered by engineers and officials, the reasons why specific options were chosen, and the
                    consequences of the decisions. The publication is a welcome addition to the fields of public works
                    and environmental history.
            Michael C. Robinson, Public Works Historical Society, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               The Poorhouse: Subsidized Housing in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1895-1976. By Devereux Bowly, Jr. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. 254. End maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $15.00.)
            At first glance The Poorhouse has the appearance of a coffee-table book, profusely
                    and richly illustrated and outsized. But it is not. Bowly's book is a catalog of privately
                    and publicly subsidized low-income housing in 
                        Chicago
                     from 1895 to 1976. The author covers the subject in a comprehensive but inventory-like
                    fashion. Each project is named and illustrated by photographs; its architects are identified and its
                    aesthetic qualities, if any, mentioned; each building is described as to type and cost, and the
                    goals of its sponsors are measured against its current condition. The result is a great deal of
                    useful information but also a taxonomic dullness. Unfortunately, the author has not dug into 
                        Chicago
                    's history or into the history of housing; consequently, his projects are not
                    set into their historical milieus.
            Some of the deficiencies of the book are counterbalanced if not remedied in the final chapters where
                    Bowly deals effectively with the contemporary scene and the more recent past. In these sections he
                    strongly criticizes the planners and builders of high-rise, multistoried megastructures and the 
                        Chicago
                     Housing Authority, now the largest landlord in 
                        Chicago
                    . Bowly concludes that CHA "has failed to fulfill the expectations of the
                    social reform movement from which it sprang" and which saw in public housing reform a way
                    to "rid the city of slums" and transform those at the bottom into useful,
                    "healthy, upwardly mobile citizens" (p. 221). The evidence, according to the
                    author, suggests that public housing has not made residents "more self-sufficient or
                    contented," nor has better housing made better citizens (p. 221).
            Bowly, however, sees the picture as not all bleak. Housing for the elderly has been a notable
                    success, and subsidized housing for Chicagoans with middle and lower-middle incomes has been
                    reasonably successful, although the social goals of racial integration have not in every case been
                    met. The basic housing stock of 
                        Chicago
                     has grown during the last thirty years by 100,000 units, and a massive upgrading of
                    plumbing and sanitation has been extended to thousands of units at the bottom of the housing scale.
                    Although 90 percent of this improvement has come from private enterprise, public housing has made
                    its contribution both in substantive and symbolic ways. Bowly is also encouraged by a federal
                    rent-subsidy experiment now under  way which permits the welfare
                    recipient to seek his own better housing in the private market instead of in federal projects. This
                    book should stimulate some meaningful debate. Unfortunately, bureaucrats in the Department of
                    Housing and Urban Development and urban architects seldom engage in profitless discussion.
            Melvin G. Holli, University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  
                Circle
            
         
         
            
               Cities of the American West: A History of Frontier Urban Planning. By John W.
                    Reps. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1979. Pp. xii, 827. Illustrations, maps, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $75.00.)
            Like the frontier town boosters whom John W. Reps describes in careful detail, the reviewer is
                    tempted immediately to take refuge in statistics. A narrative of more than 200,000 words traces the
                    founding and planning of towns in the several detached frontier regions of the Trans-
                        Missouri
                     West. Groups of chapters deal in succession with the Spanish Southwest, 
                        California
                     and the Sierras, Mormon 
                        Utah
                    , the Willamette Valley, the Missouri Valley
                    farming frontier, the Rocky Mountain mining empire, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , and finally the railroad towns that helped to tie together the several frontiers.
                    Thirty-two color plates and 492 black-and-white illustrations include plat maps, magazine cuts, and
                    bird's-eye views. They provide essential evidence for describing initial street plans and
                    the ways in which the first generation of settlers filled the plans with houses, hotels, and
                    hardware stores. In recognition of their past and present importance in the western urban hierarchy,
                    the towns of 
                        California
                     and 
                        Texas
                     receive the greatest attention, those of 
                        Idaho
                     and 
                        North Dakota
                     the least.
            Reps uses his evidence to support two explicit theses. Framing the book as a refutation of Frederick
                    Jackson Turner's model of stages in western development, he agrees with Richard
                    Wade's idea of an "urban frontier" on which towns and cities preceded and
                    promoted agricultural settlement. In society, culture, and government, cities of any size in the
                    West shared more with their eastern counterparts than with their farming, ranching, and mining
                    hinterlands. The book also asserts that nearly every western city was "planned,"
                    even if not skillfully designed. Patterns of growth were set by conscious decisions about street
                    plans and building sites made by land speculators, railroads, churches, governments, and
                    corporations.  A third implicit argument deals with the variety
                    of impulses behind the development of an urban system composed "of Spanish pueblos, of
                    mining camps, of railroad communities, of Mormon settlements, of speculative towns, of agricultural
                    marketing centers, of coastal, lake and river ports, of military posts that were transformed into
                    urban places, and of capital cities" (p. ix).
            
               Cities of the American West amounts in effect to a reconstructed guidebook that
                    gives at least passing mention to approximately one thousand western cities, towns, and townsites.
                    By relying on maps, views, letters, travel accounts, gazetteers, early histories, and other sources
                    that were available at the time, Reps precludes discussion of the internal dynamics of land-use
                    changes, institutional growth, and decision-making. His enormously energetic research does supply
                    abundant information on the physical design and physical appearance of western cities, ranging from
                    San Antonio and Santa Fe in the eighteenth century to Omaha, Austin, Seattle, 
                        San Francisco
                    , and their rivals in the 1890s. In rank order, the longest index entries deal with
                    "railroads," "streets," "houses,"
                    "gridiron street plan," "public squares," and "townsite
                    speculation." As they would with any guidebook, most readers will sample the volume chapter
                    by chapter and town by town. Specialists on particular cities may find little new material, but no
                    other book assembles such an extensive body of reliable information on the initial phase of
                    urbanization in the West or makes such a consistent effort to recapture the excitement felt by
                    pioneers on the West's urban frontiers.
            Carl Abbott, 
                        Portland
                     State University, 
                        Portland
                    , Ore.
         
         
            
               The Larger Hope: The First Century of the Universalist Church in America,
                    1770-1870. By Russell E. Miller. (
                        Boston
                    : Unitarian Universalist Association, 1979. Pp. xxviii, 1009. Illustrations, appendixes,
                    notes, selected bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            "In God's eternity," according to one Universalist hymn, "There
                    shall a day arise,/ When all the race of man shall be / With Jesus in the skies" (p. 326).
                    Belief in universal salvation arose from several sources in the mid-eighteenth century; in the
                    postrevolutionary era it blended with a fervent belief in congregational independence to inspire one
                    of the most energetic and rapidly growing religious movements in America. By  the 1820s revivalists were pointing to Universalism as evidence of the
                    need for redoubled emphasis on sin; Universalism was, in the words of an evangelical newspaper in
                    1835, "the reigning heresy of the day …. It is poisoning more minds, and ruining
                    more souls, than any, if not all other heresies amongst us" (p. 159). In the 1840s
                    Universalism may have been the fifth or sixth largest denomination in America. Although the movement
                    declined thereafter, it had played an important role in the widening confidence in human nature and
                    modified views of the atonement that were important features of nineteenth-century American culture.
            One indication of scholarly neglect of this significant religious movement has been the absence of a
                    reliable, comprehensive history. Russell E. Miller's volume supersedes Richard
                    Eddy's Universalism in America (1886). It is neither critical nor
                    interpretative, but in the welter of names and facts that it presents may be found leads to dozens
                    of worthwhile scholarly topics. The accounts of opposition to denominational consolidation, of
                    frontier circuit-riding, and of early college-building all contain information of interest to
                    specialists in Indiana history.
            Lewis Perry, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Union Cavalry in the Civil War. Volume I, From Fort Sumter to 
                            Gettysburg
                        , 1861-1863. By Stephen Z. Starr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1979. Pp. xiv, 507. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            Stephen Z. Starr plans to tell, in three volumes, the story of the development of the Union cavalry
                    from a mass of untrained, poorly equipped, and badly led but eager volunteers in 1861 into a
                    powerful striking force by the close of the war in 1865. Volume I of Starr's series is a
                    very well researched and readable account of the period from the recruitment of cavalry regiments in
                    1861 to the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     in 1863 when the Union cavalry first demonstrated that it could compete with the
                    Confederate cavalry that earlier had been able to outride and outfight the Yankees.
            The author explains why two years were needed to bring the mounted service to this stage of
                    effectiveness. First, unlike the Confederate troopers, the northern recruits had little experience
                    in riding or caring for horses. Second, there were very few officers with any knowledge of cavalry
                    service. Third, time  was needed for the government to procure
                    modern weapons, adequate clothing and equipment, and suitable horses. Fourth, the high command did
                    not use the cavalry effectively. Instead of combining the cavalry into a single, independent force
                    as the Rebels did, the Union troopers were split into small details assigned to infantry units and
                    used as escorts, couriers, and scouts by the infantry officers. When the Union cavalry units were
                    united into a single organization in early 1863, they progressed so rapidly that they prevented the
                    Confederate cavalry from playing a significant role in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     campaign—an important element in the final Union victory.
            The author concentrates his story on the experiences of the cavalry of the Army of the Potomac in 
                        Virginia
                     and does not mention the differences in the conditions and development of the service
                    in the other Union armies. This omission is somewhat surprising since the introduction uses General
                    James H. Wilson's campaign through 
                        Alabama
                     in 1865 to illustrate the ultimate effectiveness reached by the Union cavalry.
                    Wilson's troopers were veterans who learned the cavalry business in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , and information about their early development and training would have been
                    appropriate. Also, the western cavalry seems to have progressed more rapidly in the early years and
                    were fighting as independent units earlier than the eastern cavalry. Perhaps the author plans to
                    cover the development of the western cavalry in a later volume.
            Starr has performed a valuable service by pulling together the significant story of the cavalry from
                    widely scattered sources into one very readable book. The volume should become the most valuable
                    single source for future historians studying the use of cavalry in the Civil War.
            John W. Rowell, 
                        Columbus
                    , Ind.
         
         
            
               The Churches and the Indian Schools, 1888-1912. By Francis Paul Prucha.
                    (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1979. Pp. xii, 278. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $16.50.)
            If one is looking for a study showing the ways in which the various churches conducted schools for
                    Indian children between 1888 and 1912, this is not the place to look. The book does not enlighten
                    the reader as to how these children were schooled; one learns, for example, of
                    "sexist" curricular emphases only in the appendix. And while the author does
                    acknowledge that the Indian is almost incidental to his story, Reuben Quick Bear,  whose case went to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, is no more defined as a person than is Dred Scott in another
                    "racist" case.
            Prucha begins his study with the congressional decision to phase out the contract school system by
                    successive reductions in appropriations through the 1890s and to replace it with a federally funded
                    and administered system. When it was begun in the 1870s, the contract system had funded more
                    Protestant than Catholic mission schools, but this proportion had been reversed by 1888 so that
                    about two thirds of the total appropriations were for Catholic efforts. Termination of the contract
                    system thus hit Catholics harder than Protestants.
            Maintaining Catholic mission schools after 1900 was difficult. Financially, public appeals for
                    contributions from Catholics did not produce sufficient funds, and public officials were pressured
                    to utilize tribal funds and to obtain ration reimbursements; these efforts were modestly successful.
                    Operationally, administrators in the Bureau of Indian Affairs acceded to pressure, either applied
                    directly by the Catholic schools or indirectly through elected officials, to lessen the zeal of
                    Indian agents who favored federal over mission schools; religious instruction in federal schools and
                    the nuns' dress were other issues that caused problems for the Indian office. Legally,
                    Indian parental rights over their children's place of schooling were defined in the courts,
                    and the Quick Bear decision clarified that question. So, while termination of the contract schools
                    was a Catholic defeat, pressures after 1900 led to Catholic successes on school matters. Although
                    ardent advocates threatened to use the "Catholic vote," Prucha does not indicate
                    any realization of this threat or of the development of a bloc vote. Catholics, as a matter of fact,
                    were simply following Protestant precedent and adapting to the "American" way.
            The book is based on the hitherto somewhat unused records of the Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,
                    the Indian Rights Association collection, and federal records in the National Archives. The sources
                    are well used in this volume, and the story is straightforward. One may suspect, however, that
                    Prucha is to a degree the prisoner of the sources, both in terms of their content and in terms of
                    his utilization of them. He uses the bureau records for the Catholic view and the
                    Rights Association collection as the Protestant position. Father Joseph A.
                    Stephan, who was the founder of the bureau as well as the principal builder of the Catholic mission
                    school system, guided the bureau until his death in 1901, and his predilections defined  the bureau's behavior and its records. Since Stephan was an
                    example of the siege mentality that many have noted among late-nineteenth-century Catholics,
                    Prucha's "war" between Catholics and Protestants may well derive its
                    flavor from the bureau director's viewpoint. Prucha does recognize an irenic and ecumenical
                    tone in Stephan's successor, and he also recognizes the secularist trends of the era.
                    Certainly, anti-Catholic bigots of the American Protective Association type opposed
                    "sectarian appropriations" during the 1890s, and anti-Catholicism did not die out
                    in 1900. But secularists interested in clarifying church-state issues as matters of public policy
                    took positions on Mormonism, Bible-reading, and prayers in the tax-supported schools. They also
                    supported the shift from voluntary and church-supported charitable efforts toward a
                    government-funded social welfare system and constituted a significant nondenominational force in
                    policy making. The net effect was a diminution of anti-Catholicism but also a decline of
                    anti-Protestantism. Both were fortunate and fortunately coincidental.
            Donald L. Kinzer, Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
         
         
            
               The Resisted Revolution: Urban America and the Industrialization of Agriculture,
                        1900-1930. By David B. Danbom. (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1979. Pp. ix, 195. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay,
                    index. $10.25.)
            Few historians dispute the importance of the first three decades of the twentieth century to the
                    development of American agriculture. Much of the scholarship in this period, however, focuses on
                    technological innovation rather than on intellectual or social transformations. The secondary
                    literature in this field is admirable for its technical depth, but it is less satisfactory in its
                    treatment of the ideological forces which planned and engineered the twentieth-century agricultural
                    revolution. Similarly the reaction of society to massive institutional and societal reform in the
                    countryside is almost ignored.
            David B. Danbom in The Resisted Revolution analyzes the intellectual and social
                    forces which both promoted and resisted the conversion of the American farm from the locus of a
                    preindustrial life-style to the physical plant of an efficient business enterprise. Danbom collects
                    all of the various groups interested in agricultural reform into the Country Life Movement. The
                    author then analyzes the factions of this movement in terms of 
                    their differences in rhetoric, methods, and motivations. One faction of the movement, the
                    "urban agrarians," consisted of subscribers to the agrarian myth who used it to
                    show the comparative evil of the city. Their interest in rural reform was motivatived by the
                    differences they found between the idealized American yeomen of an earlier age and the actual
                    inhabitants of America's farms. This discrepancy between the ideal husbandman and the
                    farmer of reality was attributed by the urban agrarians to a slow degeneration of the rural
                    population caused by decaying rural institutions. Thus the urban agrarians undertook a mission to
                    upgrade the rural environment and, thereby, to restore the American farmer to an earlier standard of
                    moral, civic, and spiritual virtue. The second major component of the movement viewed the farmer as
                    antiprogressive, decadent, and inefficient in comparison to the more sophisticated urban laborer.
                    This group believed the reform of rural America and the rehabilitation of the farmer were vital in
                    eliminating the economic drag that a backward agricultural sector placed upon a booming
                    urban-industrial nation. In their view the farm had to be transformed into an efficient and
                    interdependent support facility for an economy increasingly based upon urban-industrial standards.
            Danbom argues that the members of the Country Life Movement regarded agriculture as a naturally
                    subordinate part of the American economy and society. The farm was to be restructured upon the model
                    of the efficient urban factory. The purpose of this renovation was not the amelioration of the lives
                    of rural citizens; rather, it was motivated by hopes of aiding the urban worker to acquire cheap and
                    plentiful food and fiber. The author claims that rural reforms were engineered by persons who
                    thought in terms of industrial and urban priorities and standards. Interestingly, Danbom interprets
                    the programs of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture as the product of strong urban priorities and little concern
                    for rural needs and aspirations. Danbom views the emphasis of the extension worker and the county
                    agent on high farm production, which fostered both low farm and food prices, to be the result of
                    USDA goals that were based on urban needs and wants.
            Danbom has offered a most interesting and stimulating interpretation of the agricultural revolution
                    of the twentieth century. While his thesis is far from being completely established, it will
                    undoubtedly stimulate much-needed research by social and intellectual historians in the area of
                    rural-urban  conflict. Danbom's work is an important
                    contribution to the historiography of American agriculture.
            M. Edward Holland, The Johns Hopkins University, 
                        Baltimore
                    
            
         
         
            
               Insurance Reform: Consumer Action in the Progressive Era. By H. Roger Grant.
                    (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1979. Pp. xi, 202. Illustrations, note on sources, notes,
                    index. $14.95.)
            In this succinct, useful study H. Roger Grant surveys the politics of the fire and life insurance
                    industries in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. He examines the movements for the
                    reform of the industries in the five states that spearheaded changes—
                  New York, Wisconsin,
                            Missouri, Kansas
               , and 
                        Texas
                    . A final chapter deals with the drive for regulation by the federal government.
            As revealed by Grant, the reform movements were complex. In the initial stages the insurance
                    companies often joined policyholders and state insurance commissioners in pressing for legislation
                    to bring order to and modernize their industries. All could usually agree upon the need to end such
                    practices as rebating and twisting. As the title of his work suggests, Grant believes that the
                    insurance men and consumers (policyholders) broke ranks on more far-reaching reforms. Life insurance
                    men bitterly fought state efforts to regulate their investments and methods of doing business. In
                    the fire insurance industry the hottest battles revolved around attempts by the states to set the
                    insurance rates. Grant concludes that these latter actions resulted "most of all"
                    from "a consumer crusade" (p. vii).
            This work will be of value to anyone interested in government-business relations during the
                    Progressive Era. Well-organized and capably written, it investigates a significant, but somewhat
                    neglected, topic. The study is, however, marred by several shortcomings. Grant does not adequately
                    relate his findings to those of other historians who have written on the same
                    subject—Morton Keller, Albert Erlebacher, and the author of this review. While Grant
                    generally recognizes the complexity of the various insurance reform movements, his account is, in
                    places, simplistic, as he comes close to taking on the role of consumer-advocate. Still, these
                    weaknesses aside, Insurance Reform is an important work that increases the
                    understanding of the history of business and politics in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Mansel G. Blackford, 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Columbus
                    
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Genealogical Sources: Reprinted from the Genealogy Section, Indiana Magazine of
                    History. Compiled by Dorothy L. Riker. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Society, 1979. Pp. ix, 456. Notes, maps, index.
                    $20.00.) From 1936 until 1961, when the Hoosier Genealogist appeared,
                    the Indiana Magazine of History included a section on Indiana genealogy. Dorothy
                    L. Riker has now compiled this diverse genealogical information into one volume that is divided into
                    five sections: marriage and will records, church and cemetery records, miscellaneous records, Bible
                    records, and family genealogies. In addition, she has included a most useful name index to the whole
                    collection. Thus, in one readily accessible place is a wealth of information for Indiana families.
                    Genealogists and family historians will greatly prize this volume. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            South Bend
                         / 
                            Mishawaka
                        : Self-Guided Tours through Our Industrial Legacy. (
                        South Bend
                    , Ind.: Discovery Hall Museum, 1980. Pp. 32. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $2.50, plus $.50 for mail orders.) This attractive booklet provides maps,
                    illustrations, and brief descriptions of 
                        South Bend
                    's large and varied industrial past. With this guide to walking and driving
                    tours visitors and residents can begin to understand some of the community's most important
                    history and its relationship to the present. The booklet can be ordered from Discovery Hall Museum, 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana 46601. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Guide to the Ohio Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Archive.
                    Assembled by David R. Miller. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, Indiana University, 1979. Pp. 19. This guide
                    lists and describes a unique and voluminous collection of primary and secondary sources relating to
                    Native Americans in the Old Northwest and nearby states. Under the direction of Professor Erminie
                    Wheeler-Voegelin of Indiana University, researchers assembled a large variety of documents, many in
                    the form of microfilm copies, from the National Archives, the Library of Congress, and many private
                    and public sources in the region. As a consequence of this work and the preparation of this guide it
                    is now possible to locate readily much of the source material required to undertake research in the
                    ethnohistory of the Ohio Valley-Great Lakes area. Information regarding
                    purchase of the guide and use of the collections may be obtained by writing: Director, Glenn A.
                    Black Laboratory of Archaeology, Ninth and Fess Streets, 
                        Bloomington
                    ,  Indiana 47405. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Historic Preservation in Small Towns: A Manual of Practice. By Arthur P. Ziegler,
                    Jr., and Walter C. Kidney. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1980. Pp. xi, 146. Illustrations,
                    appendixes, bibliographies, index. Paperbound, $8.95.) The movement to preserve good
                    architecture is no longer confined to big cities. Rising concern in small towns about their own
                    future and identity is evidenced by the growing number of assistance inquiries received by such
                    preservation organizations as Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana and the National Trust for
                    Historic Preservation on the national level. Ziegler's and Kidney's book arrives
                    not a day too soon and pulls together a vast amount of experience and information into one source.
                    The authors' opening chapter succinctly analyzes not only many preservation issues but also
                    the deeper community feelings that preservationists must confront if a program is to succeed. The
                    final three chapters describe the many planning tools and devices that preservationists use to gain
                    their end. Details and in-depth discussions are brief—too brief—in this
                    too-short book, but the excellent bibliography and other lists of information centers compensate for
                    its brevity. Indiana's rich architectural heritage lies in its small towns with their town
                    squares, courthouses, railroad stations, church steeples, and nineteenth-century houses. This volume
                    directs any group in the right direction and will be of inestimable value in helping a small town
                    help itself. Ruth I. Price, 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana.
            
            
               Resource Guide for the War of 1812. Compiled by John C. Fredriksen. (
                        Los Angeles
                    : UCLA President's Undergraduate Fellowship, 1979. Pp. vii, 156.
                    $10.50.) Fredriksen offers a useful introductory bibliography of American military and
                    naval studies dealing with the War of 1812. Designed for collegiate reference libraries and military
                    buffs, his book cites approximately 1,700 primary and secondary sources and briefly describes the
                    manuscript holdings of over one hundred libraries. The comprehensive coverage of the war in the Old
                    Northwest represents one sixth of the entries. No citations are annotated, nonmilitary topics are
                    given cursory treatment, and book publication and reprint dates are erratically handled. The
                    listings could have been extended to newspapers and selected county histories, and several
                    chronologies and army lineages could have been omitted. George W. Geib, 
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
               A Russian Looks at America: The Journey of Aleksandr Borisovich Lakier in 1857.
                    Translated and edited by Arnold Schrier and Joyce Story. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1979. Pp. xlii, 272. Maps, notes, illustrations, index. $15.95.) The
                    English translation of Aleksandr Lakier's Puteshestvie gives American
                    scholars an early Russian's-eye view of North America. Lakier's geographical
                    description and general appraisal of the American character and social scene overshadow the
                    turbulent political situation on the eve of the Civil War. A distaste for slavery, a disdain for the
                    constant pursuit of the dollar, and a disgust at sharing dinner tables and hotel beds with strangers
                    temper Lakier's admiration of a "lively, clever, practical people" (p.
                    98) and his enthusiasm for American justice and education.
            Schrier and Story provide a helpful introduction and a useful index. However, footnotes would ease
                    abrupt transitions that result from omissions in Lakier's original account. Inaccuracies in
                    documenting people and places could have been eliminated by rechecking sources. For example, the
                    editors cite the incorrect year for the beginning of the 
                        Auburn
                     prison system (p. 53) and the wrong years for Benjamin Gratz 
                        Brown
                    's senatorial term (p. 213). They also mistakenly assert that Stephen A.
                    Douglas was the Democratic presidential nominee in 1852 and 1856 (p. 243)—years when
                    Democrats 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce and James Buchanan were nominated and elected. Lakier redeems his able
                    translators by providing an entertaining and readable narrative of his travels in antebellum
                    America. Jeff Gunderson, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               The Invisible Empire: A Bibliography of the Ku Klux Klan. By William H. Fisher. (
                        Metuchen
                    , N.J.: Scarecrow Press, Inc. Pp. ix, 202. Indexes. $10.00.) This very useful
                    bibliography lists and sometimes annotates books, articles, dissertations, government documents, and
                    manuscripts dealing with the Ku Klux Klan. Part I covers the nineteenth century; Part II the
                    twentieth century. The bibliography contains thirty-three references to Klan activity in Indiana
                    during the 1920s. Coverage of works relating to Indiana is very good for contemporary periodical
                    articles, but the compiler does not list any of the Klan manuscript sources in Indiana archives and
                    libraries. Nonetheless, the wide chronological and geographic scope make this bibliography a
                    necessary addition to any major library in Indiana and the nation. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Journal of a Tamed Bureaucrat: Nils A. Olsen and the BAE, 1925-1935. Edited by
                    Richard Lowitt. (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1980. Pp. viii, 245. Frontispiece, notes, index.
                    $15.95.) Nils A. Olsen was assistant chief and then chief of the Bureau of Agricultural
                    Economics in the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture when this journal was written. New in 1922, the bureau became
                    the "largest and most important" (p. 7) arm of the department under Olsen but then
                    lost functions and personnel to the Federal Farm Board and the Agricultural Adjustment
                    Administration. Distressed by that decline and by the rising New Deal "radicals"
                    (p. 221), Olsen left the department to join an insurance company in 1935. This book will probably be
                    more valuable for students of the Agriculture Department's internal politics than for
                    historians of agricultural economics and policy. Interested specialists may want to see the rest of
                    Olsen's diary in the 
                        Iowa
                     State University Library; "less than a third of the entries" (p. 10)
                    are in this book. Donald B. Marti, Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        .
            
            
               Foxfire 5 … Edited by Eliot Wigginton. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1979. Pp. 511. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $12.95; paperbound, $6.95.) Foxfire 5 is one more
                    testimonial to what a schoolteacher can accomplish with his students. Eliot Wigginton is the English
                    teacher from Rabun Gap, 
                        Georgia
                    , and his ninth and tenth grade students are the "Kids" who are
                    responsible for putting together what have become the nationally famous Foxfire
                    books. Folklorists may well not be happy with the absence of scholastic standards in these volumes,
                    but persons wanting information from folk who have practiced ironmaking, blacksmithing, gunmaking,
                    and bear hunting and those desiring to hear some personal-experience stories from a local blacksmith
                    and his wife will find Foxfire 5 quite interesting. The photographs and
                    sketches—all 430 of them—make the reading more interesting.
                    Wigginton's introduction is a convincing explanation of the Foxfire
                    philosophy. This book can be recommended not as a folklore text but as a useful reference for
                    organizing similar projects. Mohammed S. Ansari, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            Correction
            The editor is grateful to two readers who pointed out the error in the caption to the photograph of
                    the Gary Works in the June, 1980, issue. The date of the photograph, as the car models indicate, is
                    not 1940 but about 1950.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
