
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 20, Issue 2, pages 123-220. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:20+issue:2+year:1924&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston
            By George R. Wilson.
            (Written for the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society)
            FOREWORD
            General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, Thomas Polke, Thomas 
                        Montgomery
                    , Richard Palmer, and Ephraim Jourdan were the commissioners
                    appointed by the legislature of Indiana, on December 20th, 1817, to meet at the
                    house of William McDonald, on the second Monday in February, 1818, to organize
                    Dubois county. General Johnston was chairman of that commission, and it is in
                    the nature of a belated tribute of respect to the chairman of that commission
                    that this sketch is written by one who has his home and kindred in Dubois
                    county.
            General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston was born November 10th, 1776, in Culpepper county, 
                        Virginia
                    , near where George 
                        Washington
                     had lived many years. He came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , Northwest territory, in 1793. He was the first postmaster of 
                        Vincennes
                     (1800), the first lawyer in 
                        Vincennes
                    , the organizer of the 
                        Knox County
                     Bar Association, a member of the first territorial legislature
                    (elected April 2nd, 1810) a member of the first board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     university, adjutant-general of Indiana territory, three times
                    chairman of the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    , twice president judge of the court, a member of the state
                    legislature for several terms, and during the seventh session was speaker of the
                    house of representatives. His name is on the muster roll of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . General W. Johnston's name is connected with the
                    publication of early Indiana Territorial laws. He was auditor of Indiana
                    territory, and its treasurer when it became a state. He brought Masonry  into it and put slavery out. He organized 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge No. 1, F. and A. M., March 13th, 1809. He was chairman of the
                    committee which organized the Masonic Grand Lodge of Indiana, and was its deputy
                    grand master for two years. In 1825, General Johnston was highly spoken of for
                    lieutenant-governor of Indiana.
            Johnston came from the Old Dominion—the land of sunrise and the mother
                    of presidents. When Johnston left the old 
                        Virginia
                     he practically left the world for the wilderness; like the sun he
                    had to climb the Alleghany mountains before he could shine in the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    . As we look back over the span of a
                    century—and—a—third, we may safely say,
                    Johnston stands the test of time. He was a mighty worker by the dim lamps of the
                    olden times. It seems he had the wisdom to understand, and the foresight to
                    provide. To—day the works of this man speak to us across the century;
                    he was a man of enterprise who got ahead, and kept ahead, of the crowd. His was
                    the vision, the mission, the ability, and the achievement; it is left to us to
                    gather up a record of his work. Through the passing twilight of bygone years we
                    see Johnston on his way to 
                        Vincennes
                    . John, the Baptist, with his long locks and in his rough coat of
                    camel's hair, eating locusts and wild honey, could not have looked more
                    daring or romantic than some of the travelers Johnston must have met on his way
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1793. There was the flavor of a delicious bit of Scotch brogue
                    in the way he pronounced his words. He was just a good man, with no grievances
                    to avenge, no ambitions to gratify, and no selfish interests to serve. There
                    were humor and easy good nature in his speeches, yet patriotism was in every
                    line. He lived in an age that is dead and gone, but as we study
                    Johnston's achievements, memories come again out of the past. These are
                    the landmarks of General Johnston's career. They do not tell all, but
                    they will do for a general introduction.
            Johnston displayed high efficiency in many separate fields of human activity. He
                    was always on the alert in doing practical, useful, and constructive things. He
                    was an honest man, a good citizen, and a good American. He was a good lawyer, a
                    fine scholar, and a prominent territorial statesman. His  life was rounded out ably, creditably, and
                    honorably in all these lines; however, the three outstanding features of General
                    Johnston's life were, the abolishment of slavery in Indiana, the
                    education of the general public therein, and the introduction of Masonry into
                    Indiana territory.
            The writer became interested in General Johnston for three practical reasons; (1)
                    because he helped to organize Dubois county at Fort McDonald; (2) because he
                    brought Masonry to Indiana; and (3) because he took a bold stand on the slavery
                    question. For these reasons, in our rambles through the pages of pioneer history
                    we kept his name in view. He who writes a sketch of a pioneer must dig up much
                    forgotten lore; however, it is not difficult to read Johnston's title
                    clear, even through the dreary lapse of fading years.
            It is not possible clearly to understand a man, or to write satisfactorily his
                    record of achievements, without giving his environments, and saying something of
                    the men with whom he had to deal and of the days in which he lived. Time and
                    space almost forbid doing so in Johnston's case, so this paper can
                    serve only as a general introduction to an interesting and unusual character in
                    early Indiana history. General Johnston's nativity and the date of his
                    birth show clearly after whom he was named. It was not George 
                        Washington
                    , but General 
                        Washington
                    . The name, General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, carried with it a military dignity that was not naturally
                    a part of the man himself. Early travelers who passed through 
                        Vincennes
                     experienced disappointment due to the civil appearance of General
                    Johnston, and at least one made mention of it in his communications back home.
                    General Johnston was a man of letters; he was not a military man, in the usual
                    sense of the word, though the "t" in his name indicates that
                    he came from stock that could put up a good fight when necessary. And, General
                    Johnston did; he fought slavery in its final analysis, and introduced Masonry
                    into 
                        Vincennes
                     in the very face of its French inhabitants and their faith, and the
                    personal inclinations of General William Henry Harrison, by far the most
                    prominent man at 
                        Vincennes
                    . General Harrison was a strong character, a capable and honest man.
                    He entertained strong views on public questions and  clung to them consistently. He began the second war
                    with 
                        England
                    , at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; he never committed an error in his military movements, or lost a
                    battle. Let it be plainly understood now and here that any laurel wreath we may
                    try to place upon the brow of General Johnston is justly his and not made at the
                    expense of any other man or men. General Johnston spoke the courtly language of
                    an earlier day, and the local courts had so much confidence in his honor and
                    uprightness as a man and lawyer that they permitted him to address a French jury
                    in the language it could easily understand. It is unusual for any foreign
                    language to be used in an American court. General Johnston was a thorough French
                    scholar and a successful lawyer, but no one seems to know how or when he
                    acquired his versatile qualifications, except that he studied law in 
                        Louisville
                     in the office of Maj. John Harrison, the husband of Mary Ann
                    Johnston, General W. Johnston's eldest sister. Maj. Harrison was a
                    grandson of Charles Harrison, who was a brother of Benj. Harrison, a signer of
                    the Declaration of Independence, and father of Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison. By
                    marriage Gen. W. Johnston and Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison ran into the same family.
            In 1793, when General Johnston was seventeen years of age, he rode into 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    , probably over the old Buffalo Trail, to find a habitation and a
                    home and to make for himself a name in local history. The young man at once
                    found a welcome, for it was soon discovered that he had wisdom, even in his
                    youth. It appears that he must have been of that sturdy stock that gained wisdom
                    through self—education. No known records, in Culpepper county, 
                        Virginia
                    , nor at 
                        Vincennes
                     reveal the source of his education, knowledge, and wisdom.1
            
            In speaking about early American pioneers in Southern Indiana, here is one well
                    worthy of the name. When General Johnston found his way to Fort Vincent, save
                    for the old Buffalo Trail, southern Indiana was almost a trackless forest from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    . There were but few squatters’ cabins from one
                    settlement to the other. The famous old trail had lost its herds of buffaloes
                    three years before in the un-usually 
                  
                     1Esarey, Harrison, Volume I,
                            317.
               
                     serve and long snow storm of 1790, and in
                    many places its path was not easy to travel. Fort McDonald, in Dubois county,
                    had not been constructed, and the first stockade near Petersburg was but six
                    years old. The ferry across White river on the trail northwest of Petersburg was
                    not established until 1796, and the river itself stole through the wilderness as
                    if escaping from danger. Many men of several races, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , were squalid, rowdyish, and indifferent. Except the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract, the title to the forests was yet with the Indians. Freeman
                    had not yet blazed its boundary lines on the forest bark; Buckingham had not yet
                    located the base line; Harrison had not yet entered Indiana, and no Indian
                    treaties of his had been attempted. 
                        Spain
                     held possession of the mighty valley of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ; the Spanish coin was a local circulating medium, and citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     called 
                        New Orleans
                     "town." The British still controlled the red men
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and the beaver pelts of the Patoka found their way to Quebec and
                    to English markets. The seat of government was at Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    ; no newspaper and no post office was at 
                        Vincennes
                    ; liquor was in power, and ruled with a murderous hand. It was
                    certainly not a pleasing picture for one who evidently left some home of
                    American dignity and southern hospitality in aristocratic old 
                        Virginia
                    . Across the green plain Johnston found old 
                        Vincennes
                     pocketed on the 
                        Wabash
                    , with a civilization all its own. At times, in the old stockade he
                    heard the sound of drums—distant—of measured beat and low,
                    and heard fifes playing an American air—one to which no Indian up to
                    his day had every marched. He saw 
                        Kentucky
                     whiskey and native wine playing an exterminating tragedy upon the
                    despairing Indian. He saw the Indians, in time, sell the countless acres of
                    their hunting grounds for liquor and a song. In the old necropolis he saw graves
                    half a century old—graves of pioneer French families with whose
                    living children he came to find a habitation and a home. These graves, their
                    faith, and their colored servants were as dear to the pioneer French at 
                        Vincennes
                     as Dixie was to Lee, and it is difficult to understand just how
                    Johnston won so many of their votes at the various times he was before the
                    public for official preferment; for, usually, if you do not square with a  Frenchman's faith, and respect his
                    property, you are making leopard spots which are marks that stay. The eagle may
                    be brought low by an arrow its own feathers has guided, but Johnston's
                    quill does not seem to have brought him trouble even though he used it with
                    telling effect. Upon his face was the honest blush of plain democracy; in his
                    hand was the quill of freedom, Masonic lore, and public education; his feet were
                    upon the level, about him were the truthfulness and righteousness of his cause,
                    and he feared not any man. Evidently the hand of destiny took Johnston to 
                        Vincennes
                     where he was needed, and all of us may say "Well done thou
                    good and faithful servant."
            That General Johnston undertook a pioneer's job when he came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1793, is better understood when you can see 
                        Vincennes
                     as it was at that time. Dr. Logan Esarey, a high authority on
                    Western History, gives this pen picture of 
                        Vincennes
                     as Johnston found it in 1793,—
            
                    Of all the years of hardship none was worse than 1793, the year when Johnston
                        came to 
                            Vincennes
                        . Hostile Indians ranged the frontier from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         to 
                            Prairie
                         du Chien. No man's home was safe. The bones of over
                        six hundred men of St. Clair's army lay scattered about the scene
                        of defeat—wherever wild animals had left them. 
                            Wayne
                        's army was beating about in the swamps of the Maumee
                        and a day of prayer was set aside for its success. 
                            Wayne
                        's last report, October 23, 1793, stated that he was
                        held up near the scene of St. Clair's defeat and would be compelled
                        to spend the winter there. Colonel Hamtramck and the first regiment which
                        had furnished protection to 
                            Vincennes
                         was with 
                            Wayne
                         and would not return. Nearly all the experienced Indian
                        fighters along the border were either serving with the regulars or with the
                        militia under Scott. Even in central 
                            Kentucky
                         the settlers were not safe.
                    
                  
                            Louisville
                         had perhaps seventy houses, log cabins. In 1796, it took Volney
                        three days by what he called "forced marches" to ride from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            Vincennes
                        —then generally known as Fort Vincent. There were
                        here then about fifty houses, each surrounded by a yard or garden so that
                        the town looked somewhat like a present neighborhood of gardeners. The
                        streets were paths leading from house to house or to the main road which
                        ended at the tavern by the ferry. A small stockade fort built by driving
                        stakes about six feet high stood where the north edge of the town met the
                        river at Fort 
                            Knox
                        . The inhabitants were about evenly divided—French
                        and Americans. Only a few of the French spoke English and none of the
                        Americans spoke French. The French were hunters, the Americans, as a rule,
                        traders. Just the previous year, 1792, the government had given each French
                        family four hundred  acres of land and
                        all was excitement and turmoil over locating and surveying this land. The
                        law courts and the land commissioners were busy the next twenty years in
                        adjusting these claims. The nearest neighbors to 
                            Vincennes
                         were 
                     Louisville, Kaskaskia
                  , and 
                            New Orleans
                        .
                
            Years ago, the writer scanned all the files of the Western Sun, page by page, and
                    line by line, for any information pertaining to Dubois county and some other
                    subjects in which he had an historical interest. He did the same with many
                    official records and printed histories. It was then he found very many unusually
                    favorable items concerning General Johnston. Johnston was conspicuous in
                    practically all civic enterprises in and about 
                        Vincennes
                    . He seemed to be constantly engaged in public duties of one kind or
                    another. The public kept him busy with public affairs. Among the distinguished
                    men of his time he had few equals in all that went to make up the typical
                    American pioneer citizen. General Johnston and General Harrison were great
                    personal friends, though General Johnston was a sincere Mason while Harrison was
                    anti-Masonic, and in the late thirties, after General Johnston's death,
                    Harrison was nominated for the presidency on the anti-Masonic ticket, but he was
                    elected as a Whig. General Johnston was the orator of the day when 
                        Vincennes
                     welcomed home General Harrison and his victorious troops after the
                    battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            On November 18th, 1811, the territorial legislature adopted a resolution as
                    follows:
            Resolved, therefore, that the members of the legislative council and house of
                    representatives will wait upon his excellency, Governor Harrison, as he returns
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and, in their own names, and in those of their constituents,
                    welcome him home; and that General W. Johnston be, and he is hereby appointed, a
                    committee to make the same known to the governor, at the head of the army,
                    should unforeseen circumstances not prevent.2
            
            This was carried out with much dignity in the exchange of official letters
                    between General Johnston and General Harrison, under dates of November 19th and
                    December 7th, 1811, 
                  
                     2Cockrum, Pioneer History, 271;
                            Dillon, History of Indiana, 473; Esarey, Harrison, Volume I, 632, 636, 659.
               
                     by publication in the Western Sun, and by
                    public receptions and addresses.
            In 1811, when the Indians were angry, in paint and feathers, and November was in
                    its mellowing brown, Johnston's name was on the muster roll as a
                    private in Harrison's 
                        Tippecanoe
                     army. The army passed through the indigo fields eighteen miles
                    north of 
                        Vincennes
                     on the We—a trail. On the morning of November 7th, it
                    was in camp on the field of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     when silently, in the darkest hour after midnight the Indians
                    approached stealthily as the tread of forest creatures, but to the marked time
                    of dry deer—hoof—signals. When the Indian rifles cracked
                    they knew not their victims. Then came the call of the Harrison bugle and the
                    roll of the drum, and the awful grandeur of battle was on. When the night was
                    far spent, and the gray streak of light dawned in the east, the sky seemed to
                    pale before the horrors of the scene and the red baptism of carnage. The men of
                    Harrison's army who lived after the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     saw another sunrise of freedom and the dawn of a better day. Well
                    could a dying schoolmaster of 
                        Kentucky
                     say "Tell them this is history." Before that army
                    left the valley of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     there were winter barrenness and desolation at the Indian village,
                    and the power of Tecumseh was broken. Indeed the army was entitled to a glorious
                    reception at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and General Johnston could describe the fight and read its
                    influence upon the destiny of the American republic, as well and doubtless
                    better, than any of the other pioneers, because he knew just how to use
                    complimentary and dignified attributes, how to use forcible English, and last,
                    but not least, because he himself played a worthy part in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign. He was a member of Capt. Benjamin Parke's Light
                    Dragoons, under command of Colonel Joseph 
                        Hamilton
                        Daviess
                    , of the Indiana Militia, from September 21st to November 19th,
                    1811, and was promoted from the ranks to lieutenant and quartermaster, October
                    30th, 1811.3 On February 3rd, 1813, General Gibson
                    recommended to the secretary of war that General W. 
                  
                     3Muster Roll of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            ; Cockrum, Pioner History, 240, 294, 295;
                            Esarey, Harrison, Volume II, 350; Beard, Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , 103; Captain Pirtle, Battle of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , 123.
               
                     Johnston be commissioned a major. Johnston
                    was at that time an aid to General Gibson. It does not appear just what action
                    was taken on this recommendation. No doubt the name "General",
                    was confusing to General W. Johnston and also to his friends in and out of the
                    army.
            General W. Johnston was speaker of the territorial legislature that petitoned
                    congress for statehood for Indiana.4
            
            General Johnston, as speaker of the house of representatives of Indiana
                    territory, signed a resolution, in 1809, asking the president to
                    re—appoint General Harrison, governor of Indiana territory. Johnston
                    was of much assistance to General Harrison in all Indian matters. On July 21st,
                    1811, Johnston addressed the citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     on the approaching conflict with Tecumseh.5
            
            General Johnston was a citizen of 
                        Vincennes
                     years before General Harrison came to Indiana. After General
                    Harrison came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , almost any one from 
                        Virginia
                     received from him a very hospitable reception. It has been surmised
                    that there was a "
                        Virginia
                     cabal" at 
                        Vincennes
                    , for men from 
                        Virginia
                     filled many territorial appointive positions. Because the diplomacy
                    of General Johnston balanced the impulsiveness of General Harrison, the two
                    formed a lasting and useful friendship. General Johnston was a man of deep
                    religious convictions, spiritual incentives that won his battle against slavery
                    in Indiana. When General Johnston represented 
                        Knox county
                     in the legislature he usually voted as a representative of his
                    people and not as an individual. Harrison sided with the French on the slavery
                    question, perhaps in return for their services to General Clark.6 Before Indiana
                    became a state there were two hundred and thirty—seven colored people
                    in Indiana; of this number eight were in Dubois county. At one time negroes were
                    listed for taxation in Indaina along with horses, mules and cattle. This is
                    shown by the assessor's blanks of that day. In 1812, negroes were
                    quoted on the 
                        Louisville
                     market at four hundred dollars each.7
            
            
               
                  4Esarey, Harrison, Volume II, 730.
               
                  5
                  Western Sun, November 4, 1809;
                        Esarey, Harrison, Volume I, 391, 487, 489, 541.
               
                  6
                  
                            Montgomery
                        , Life of Harrison,
                        308—9—10—11—12, and 325.
               
                  7
                  Early Travels in Indiana,
                    29.
            
            
            In early French times nearly all slaves at 
                        Vincennes
                     were French or Indian slaves. The old church records there contain
                    frequent mention of births, baptisms, and deaths of panis, or slaves. It was a
                    local requirement that slaves were to be baptised and taught the Catholic faith,
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    , but it is the negro slave that commanded the principal attention
                    of General Johnston. At one time a majority of the people in Indiana territory
                    desired the introduction of slavery.8
            
            It should be borne in mind that there was nothing secret or clandestine about
                    slave—holding in the 
                        Wabash
                     counties of what are now the states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . It was the common opinion that the constitution of 1816 had no
                    effect on pre—existent slavery. Identured negroes and other slaves
                    were advertised and sold publicly,9 and it is hardly necessary to say that this
                    would not have occurred, for lack of purchasers, if there had been any serious
                    question as to the titles to them. The custom continued with so little
                    interruption that in the cenus of 1820, there were still reported one hundred
                    and ninety slaves in Indiana—only forty—seven less than
                    there were in 1810. One hundred and eight of these were held in 
                        Knox county
                    , thirty in Gibson, eleven in Posey, ten in Vanderburg, and the
                    remainder scattered in Owen, Perry, 
                        Pike
                    , Scott, Sullivan, 
                        Spencer
                    , and 
                        Warrick
                    . In the other twenty—four counties no slaves were
                        reported.10
            
            The people about 
                        Vincennes
                     were inclined to favor slavery, while in the other parts of Indiana
                    it met with much opposition. This slavery question appears prominently in
                    General Johnston's career. He had a colored slave named Mary Clark, who
                    had bound herself to Johnston by an indenture dated October 24, 1816, to serve
                    him for twenty years. After one of the hardest fought legal battles of pioneer
                    days, she was discharged from her servitude. This was practically the death of
                    slavery in Indiana, five years after the constitution of 1816. Slaves were
                    considered convenient, and for that reason they were called "voluntary
                    servants," by an agreement with them in writing, in which they
                    "worked out their freedom." Their 
                  
                     8Dunn, Indiana, 322.
                  
                     9
                     Western Sun, October 12, 1816,
                            February 8, 1817; September 6, 1817; June 27, 1819, and October 15,
                            1819.
                  
                     10Dunn, Indiana, 434,
                        435.
               
                     introduction was permitted by the
                    territorial methods previous to 1816. The corydon constitution prohibited
                    slavery forever in Indiana. Many well—to—do citizens about 
                        Vincennes
                     had "voluntary servants." That was the slave
                    section of Indiana; 
                  Brookville,
                            Charlestown, Madison
               , and Corydon, were in the
                    free soil section of Indiana.
            In 1804, General W. Johnston (with General Harrison and John Johnson) signed the
                    bonds of two colored servants or slaves, known at 
                        Vincennes
                     as "George" and "Peggy." A suit
                    was instituted by the two colored people against their owner.
                    "George" became an indentured servant for eleven years to
                    General Harrison. "Peggy" became free.11
            
            A local census of 
                        Vincennes
                    , taken by order of the board of trustees in 1830, shows
                    thirty—two slaves then held at that point, twelve males and twenty
                    females—a few more than there were in all Indiana in 1800.12
            
            For commercial reasons, and perhaps personal reasons, some pioneers opposed the
                    advancement of the territory into a higher grade of civil government. The
                    advance forward was favored by Colonel Vigo, John Rice Jones, Henry Hurst (who
                    was clerk of the territorial court), John Johnson, and General W. Johnston.
            General W. Johnston represented a pro—slavery constituency, and often
                    voted its wishes, but he afterwards declared he was always morally opposed to
                    the introduction of slavery in Indiana. His report against slavery is a model
                    state document. Here is the picture. The territorial legislature was in session
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the center of Indiana slavery; petitions were presented for and
                    against continuing slavery; they were numerous and demanded attention. A
                    territorial position had to be taken; the speaker had named Johnston, Messinger,
                    a skilled professional surveyor, and Decker, a prominent pioneer official, to
                    consider these petitons and make a report; the French were favorable to slavery,
                    and General Harrison was their friend; a congressional race was on and Johnston
                    wished to be a delegate to congress, yet he felt that by the report 
                  
                     11Dunn, Indiana, 313; Executive Journal, April 6, 1804; Territorial Court
                            Docket, September Term, 1804, and September Term, 1808, page 337;
                            Esarey, Harrison, Volume I, 95.
                  
                     12Cauthorn, 
                                
                                    Vincennes
                                
                            , 23.
               
                     he would make he would eliminate himself
                    from the race. He put right and duty above himself and by his report put slavery
                    forever beyond recovery in Indiana. Johnston's report is dated
                    Saturday, October 18th, 1808, (when he was just past thirty—two years
                    of age). It is published in full in the Western Sun of
                    December 17th, 1808. He may have played politics in his report; if he did, he
                    lost the game, but the report seems too full of good statesmanship to be written
                    for political purposes.
            Johnston begins his report on Indiana slavery, which could easily be made an
                    oration, with a short history of our deliverance from British intolerance, and
                    then says our independence is utterly unknown to any other government; but, an
                    unfortunate circumstance darkens the cheering prospect in every state, more
                    especially in the southern section of the Union, where an oppressed race
                    portends serious evils. After saying slavery once existed in every state, he
                    says those states which could do so without danger abolished slavery altogether;
                    and those having so many slaves that it would be dangerous to give them liberty,
                    at one time enacted laws for the protection of slaves, leading gradually up to
                    emancipation; then he cites 
                        Virginia
                    's provision in the donation of the Northwestern Territory.
            
               (a) He takes up the Indiana law permitting slaves to be brought into
                        Indiana and says the sixty—day—clause, allowing an
                        Indiana negro to take his choice of working out his freedom or being taken
                        back to a slave state and sold, is simply down right slavery.
               (b) He declares what is morally wrong can never be made right by
                        expediency.
               (c) He holds Indiana should be free because more people from the densely
                        populated portions of the middle and Eastern states would come to Indiana
                        than would or could come from slave states.
               (d) He declares the hand of freedom can best lay the foundation of
                        Indiana's future and prosperity, and calls attention to the
                        industry and animation found in the superior agriculture, mills, bridges,
                        roads, canals, etc., in free states, and claims the exertion of a free man
                        with his spirit and soul in  his work is
                        never equalled by the faint efforts of a meek and depressed slave.
               (e) He says the industrious will flock where industry is honorable and
                        honored, and that the man of an independent spirit would come where equity
                        reigns and where no proud nabob can cast on him a look of contempt.
               (f) He holds that influence of slavery depresses the morals of the slave
                        owners and stunts their finer feelings of humanity, to the serious loss of
                        whites as well as of blacks.
               (g) He could not understand why Indiana should grade itself with Algiers
                        and 
                            Morocco
                         at the very time, "
                            England
                        , sordid 
                            England
                        ," was blushing at the practice of slavery, and
                        repeated the expression "I tremble for my country when I reflect
                        that God is just."
               (h) "That power is right" he holds to be a dangerous
                        doctrine, and that unlimited domain in the slave holder would beget in him a
                        spirit of haughtiness and pride productive of a proportionable habit of
                        servility and despondence in those who possess no negroes, equally inimical
                        to our institutions.
               (i) He holds the free white mechanic and laboring man might be afraid to
                        vote against the sentiments of the lord of many slaves.
               (j) Last, but not least, he calls attention to the fact that should
                        Indiana permit slavery to continue within its limits slavery would be
                        established from the gulf to the lakes, and the great and mighty west would
                        have an unknown and uncertain future, etc.
            
            We do not attempt to give a complete review of Johnston's report. It
                    should be borne in mind that it was written before Abraham Lincoln was born,
                    before our second war with 
                        England
                    , and twenty—two years before the
                    Webster—Hayne debate; that it is so full of fundamentals, broad
                    visions, and historical knowledge and foresight, that it easily ranks as one of
                    the greatest historical documents ever penned in the 
                        Mississippi
                     valley, and deserves a high rank among the greatest productions of
                    American statesmanship. As a matter of state pride it should be read and
                    understood by every Hoosier in the land. After the report was made the bill that
                    brought it about was read three times, passed, and the friends of slavery never
                    recovered  from the shock. It killed slavery
                    in Indiana territory by preventing it from crossing the 
                        Ohio
                    .13 He who says nothing good originated in southern Indiana, knows
                    not the history of southern Indiana.
            In considering Johnston's report on the slavery question, the Hon. Mason
                    J. Niblack, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , says: 
                        Johnston was a member of the territorial legislature in 1808 as he had
                            been in 1807. This body in 1808 was about equally divided between the
                            pros and cons. At least it was supposed to be at the beginning of the
                            session. An unusual number of petitions were filed at this session with
                            rather more against slavery than heretofore. These petitions were all
                            referred to a committee, of which General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston was chairman, for report.
                        Johnston had been considered a pro—slavery man.
                        It was not long before a report came in and this was written by Johnston
                            himself. He read the report before the body and took the strongest
                            grounds possible against slavery. The report was a masterly one and it
                            must have been delivered in a very eloquent and forceful manner because
                            after it was read and before the body adjourned the report was
                            unanimously adopted.
                        This proved to be a heavy blow to the pro—slavery citizens. In
                            fact it proved to be the death blow, for the question was never
                            presented again in any official capacity and congress never had another
                            chance to comply with a request from the territory of Indiana for the
                            adoption of slavery on any of its soil. The proslavery men continued to
                            be proslavery men and their hopes were that when the territory was
                            admitted as a state, slavery would then be adopted. But their numbers
                            grew relatively fewer and fewer and when the constitution for the state
                            was adopted little or no attention was given to the subject of slavery.
                        Ever after the adoption of Johnston's famous report the free air
                            of the North Atlantic states was permitted to blow over the free soil of
                            Indiana to all the great states of the west that were added to our
                            country and slavery was confined to the comparatively few states of the
                                south.14
                  
                    
            
            At this day when it seems fashionable to belittle Thomas Jefferson at all
                    opportunities, we commend to the people of Indiana the consideration of how much
                    of the great anti-slavery report of General W. Johnston, and the revolution of
                    sentiment connected with it, may be justly attributed to the influence of the
                    words of Thomas Jefferson.15
            
            
               
                  13Dunn, Indiana, 371; Dillon, Indiana, 435; Western Sun, December 17,
                        1808.
               
                  14
                  Western Sun, December 17, 1808.
               
                  15Dunn, Indiana, 444,
            
            
            The report of General Johnston against slavery will always be regarded as the
                    greatest piece of statesmanship in his career, and well it might be. Indeed few
                    statesmen anywhere have as much to their credit. It will always redound to the
                    glory of the pioneer and formative days of Indiana territory.
            Indigo was cultivated north of the 
                        Ohio
                     river since the middle of the eighteenth century, and though it
                    produced only two cutings a year, it was a profitable product of pioneer days.
                    Indiana tobacco, raised at 
                        Vincennes
                    , was considered equal to the best product of 
                        Virginia
                    . The culture of these two products had an important bearing on the
                    passage of the Ordinance of 1787. The clause respecting slavery was agreed to by
                    southern members (in congress) for the purpose of preventing tobacco and indigo
                    from being cultivated, or made, on the northwest side of the 
                        Ohio
                    , as well as for several political reasons. Indigo and tobacco, like
                    all other crops the preparation of which for the market required attention
                    during the entire year, gave the most profitable employment to slave labor, and
                    it was supposed that free labor could not compete with slave labor in their
                    production. In addition to this, the unhealthfulness of indigo culture and
                    preparation was considered sufficient to prevent free labor from engaging in it
                    at all. Cotton was also cultivated in southern Indiana. All three were products
                    best produced by colored people. Those who wished to produce cotton, tobacco,
                    and indigo went into slave territory; those living in slave territory, and
                    opposed to slavery, moved to the free side of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            It may not be a flight of the imagination to say, "Commerce rules the
                    world." It was commerce that led 
                        Columbus
                     to America; it was commerce that took Magellan around the Horn of
                    South America, the ships of Europe beyond the Cape of Good Hope, and that built
                    the Panama Canal. Commerce fought practically all wars, for, after all, it is
                    the largest single ingredient in human patriotism. It may be, patriotism like
                    charity covers a great amount of evil; at any rate, strange things have been
                    done under the guise of patriotism—but not all of them led to evil.
                    Here we have 
                        Virginia
                    , a slave state giving us free soil northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and southern members of congress, voting for it. Why?
                    —to shut off northern  production
                    of cotton, tobacco, and indigo. Do you see the commerce? It is a
                    pretty and acceptable picture, but it took General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston to keep it clear and untarnished in Indiana.
            On June 2nd, 1807, General W. Johnston entered one hundred and
                    forty—one acres, at the Houghton bridge, just east of Mount Pleasant,
                    in Martin county. It is a tract of very good land, and, no doubt, he had in mind
                    a ferry landing, and its nearness to the county seat of Martin county. The
                    proposed rock pike of early days, from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , crossed White river at the Johnston purchase. He also entered land
                    at Newburg from which there is a magnificient view of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and made several other entries in different localities in southern
                    Indiana.
            In 1817, auctioneers were required to have a license, General W. Johnston was a
                    licensed auctioneer of 
                        Knox
                    , Sullivan, and 
                        Daviess
                     counties. These are little items but they show one strange law of
                    pioneer days, and the various things a pioneer lawyer had to do to earn a
                    living.
            In 1807, William McDonald's post office was 
                        Vincennes
                    , for on October 1st, 1807, General W. Johnston, the postmaster,
                    published his quarterly list of unclaimed letters. In this list there were two
                    unclaimed letters for William McDonald, of Dubois county. This is also a small
                    item but it shows the long trip of forty miles McDonald had to make for mail,
                    and then pay the postage of from ten to tweny—five cents per letter
                    after he got there.16
            
            A hundred years ago a man was generally known politically by the name of the man
                    whose principles he supported. That being true, it is not easy to understand
                    General Johnston's attitude in 1823, unless, in the broader sense, that
                    he favored a western man. In 1823, General W. Johnston announced for 
                        Clay
                     and Jackson for the presidency. He said his politics were and
                    always had been Republican. At that time the word "Republican"
                    did not have the meaning it now has. It should be considered as it was
                    understood in 1823.
            General Johnston was a man of fine education. His knowledge of history was
                    extensive and he seemed to have been 
                  
                     16
                     Western Sun, October 3,
                        1807.
               
                     familiar with the classics. That he had a
                    fair knowledge of Latin is evident from the various quotations he used, drawn
                    from that language. He spoke and read French fluently. That his style was
                    pleasing, his manner entertaining; and what he said was well worth while are
                    fully attested by the fact that he was frequently called upon on public
                    occasions for addresses. He made good use of the 
                        Vincennes
                     library, formed in 1806, and of which he was one of the charter
                    members. His orations of July 4th show a broad vision and a lofty patriotism. In
                    reading these speeches it is easy to see whence came Indiana's
                    patriotism of 1860. In Johnston's address upon the return of General
                    Harrison from 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , he analyzed the victory with the skill of a statesman. With the
                    power of his pen, Johnston pierced the wilderness gloom of pioneer Indiana and
                    left a dozen pioneer patriotic and Masonic orations for future generations to
                    read. Their thought and language add a charm to documents hallowed by age, and
                    make them well worth a careful perusal.
            Education was a subject that Johnston brought to the front with force. He
                    believed in public education, and the fraternal order he brought to Indiana had
                    much to do with the creation of free public schools. For that forethought many
                    of us owe a debt of gratitude to General Johnston.
            It may have been some dim shadow of the pioneers showing the future, or it may
                    have been their charity for mankind-whatever the cause, they favored free public
                    schools where learning could be obtained without price, and be equally open to
                    all.
            The pioneers of Indiana began early to provide for the education of its young men
                    and women. In 1806, an act was passed by the Territorial Assembly incorporating 
                        Vincennes
                     University. It was approved by Governor William Henry Harrison,
                    November 29th, 1806. The act carried this introduction: 
                        
                     Whereas, the independence, happiness, and energy of
                            every republic depends (under the influence of the destinies of Heaven)
                            upon the wisdom, virtue, talents, and energy of its citizens and rulers.
                        And whereas, science, literature, and the liberal arts
                            contribute in an eminent degree, to improve those qualities and
                            acquirements.
                        
                        And, whereas, learning hath ever been found the ablest
                            advocate of genuine liberty, the best supporter of rational religion,
                            and the source of the only solid and imperishable glory, which nations
                            can acquire.
                        And, forasmuch, as literature and philosophy furnish
                            the most useful and pleasing occupations, improving and varying the
                            enjoyments of prosperity, affording relief under the pressure of
                            misfortune, and hope and consolation in the hour of death, and
                            considering that in a commonwealth, where the humblest citizen may be
                            elected to the highest public office, and to reject, is retained, and
                            secured to the citizens, the knowledge which is requisite for a
                            magistrate and elector, should be widely diffused.
                        After these words the act begins with Section I, etc. It names as the
                            first board of trustees, William Henry Harrison, John Gibson, Thomas T.
                            Davis, Henry 
                                Vanderburgh
                            , Waller Taylor, Benjamin Parke, Peter Jones, James Johnson,
                            John Badolett, John Rice Jones, George Wallace, William Bulitt, Elias
                            McNamee, Henry Hurst, General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston, Francis Vigo, Jacob Kuykendall, Samuel McKee,
                            Nathaniel Ewing, George Leach, Luke Decker, Samuel Gwathmey, and John
                            Johnson. Congress appropriated
                            twenty—three—thousand-and—forty acres
                            toward its support. Here was a great opportunity for 
                                Vincennes
                             to become a college town. The act provided for a grammar
                            school, a lottery by which to raise an amount, not exceeding
                            twenty—thousand dollars, a course of study, etc. No lottery
                            can be authorized nor can the sale of lottery tickets be allowed under
                            section VIII, of article XV, of our present constitution, but in 1806,
                            it was lawful to hold lotteries.
                    
            
            The act reads very Johnstonian, and General Johnston, up to his death, continued
                    to fight for the rights and benefits that evidently belonged to 
                        Vincennes
                     University, but which it lost, at last, when most needed. It seems
                    it was due to some unseen but powerful influence that 
                        Vincennes
                     did not grow into a great university town in pioneer days. It would
                    be interesting to know the hidden reason. Perhaps in 1806, the environments in
                    and about 
                        Vincennes
                     were not conducive to public education; at any rate, the main trend
                    of advanced English education ran east of 
                        Vincennes
                    , on the line of the present Monon railroad. There is no evidence
                    that General Johnston ever desired to take the cross from any church or to
                    reduce  the attendance at any other school.
                    Upon any enterprise in which he entered he was always sincerely hopeful of being
                    truly helpful.
            General Johnston never forgot his dignity and aristocratic training. In his early
                    days he often appended the word "gentleman" after signing his
                    name. Occasionally he wrote following his name "In propria
                    persona," meaning of course, "In person; himself." He
                    was a noted orator and lawyer in his day and generation. He could melt a jury
                    into tears or bring it up to a state of frenzy. Perhaps the first effort to
                    issue a law book of any kind in Indiana, at private expense, was made by General
                    Johnston, in 1817. He called his work a Compend of Acts
                        1807—1817. This volume is very rare now. One book would
                    bring more today than Johnston received for his entire edition in 1817. General
                    Johnston served as a typical pioneer professional man, one of the kind of men
                    who organized counties and created states a hundred years ago.
            In 1808, a resolution was passed by the Legislative Council and House of
                    Representatives, of Indiana territory, authorizing John Rice Jones and General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston to contract for printing four hundred copies of the Territorial Laws of the Session of 1808 at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 
                        Louisiana
                     or 
                        Kentucky
                    . This is very conclusive evidence that there were lines of business
                    connections between early Indiana and 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            Murat W. Hopkins, Esq., a well known 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney, has many law books that were used by General Johnston,
                    including the first one dated 1808, and printed by Elihu Stout, at 
                        Vincennes
                    . It contains forty—five pages and a printed index of
                    five pages. It is certified to by General W. Johnston and John Rice Jones,
                    committee, November, 1808. After this book was printed General Johnston added in
                    his own handwriting (and probably for his own use only) a "Table of
                    Contents." A reproduction of the last two pages is submitted herewith.
                    Partly legendary and partly historical, the narrative is often related that the
                    paper contained in this book was carried on horseback along the old Buffalo
                    Trail from 
                  Georgetown, Kentucky
               , through Floyd,
                    Harrison, 
                        Orange
                    , Dubois, 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Knox
                     counties, to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The Masonic date, June, 5809, refers to June, 1809.
            
            General W. Johnston practiced law at 
                        Princeton
                     and at 
                        Evansville
                    , and may have resided at these two cities for a short time in 1819
                    and 1820. The records and documents in the Vanderburg courthouse show that in
                    the winter of 1819 and 1820, he acted as deputy clerk of Vanderburg county,
                    covering about four months, and under the administration  of General
                    Hugh McGary. General Johnston used to buy notes, and there are papers on file
                    showing that Major William Prince acted as attorney for Johnston, in bringing
                    suit on a note he bought from General Robert M. Evans, which note was executed
                    by another man. In 1819, General Hugh McGary's residence was used as
                    the courthouse. This is shown by the writs. At that time 
                        Evansville
                     was in the Fourth Judicial circuit. July 22nd, 1819, a letter was
                    written at 
                        St. Louis
                     and addressed to Gen. Johnston, at 
                        Princeton
                    , and from 
                    
                        Princeton
                    , Johnston replied August 19th, 1819. It is quite evident that
                    General Johnston was a useful man about a courthouse and anywhere else where
                    business and legal forms were needed, or public records were to be opened in
                    proper legal form.
            There seems to be no complete record available stating who were the members of
                    the territorial legislatures, between 1805 and 1815; however, it is known that
                    the following men were connected with a session in 1808: John Rice Jones,
                    president; Shadrach Bond, Jr., and George Fisher. In the House of
                    Representatives were Jesse B. Thomas, speaker, of 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; General W. Johnston and Luke Decker, of 
                        Knox county
                    ; William Biggs and John Messinger, of St. Clair county, 
                        Illinois
                    ; and Rice Jones, of 
                        Randolph
                     county. Evidently Jones and Johnston were the leading legal lights
                    of that session.17
            
            General Johnston's family Bible used for nearly a century by 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge No. 1, F. and A. M., but now preserved in a
                    fire—proof vault, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , bears evidence of General Johnston's deep religious
                    convictions, in marginal notes in his handwriting. In the ancient Apocrypha such
                    phrases are written in ink: "Not doctrinal, but good
                    admonition," "No semblance to truth," "The
                    prayer of Manasses, King of Judah, is the prayer of a parasitical
                    spirit," "The second book of Maccabees is false and
                    wicked," etc.
            The family record in this Bible shows that General Johnston was twice married,
                    first to Josette Trombley, of 
                        Detroit
                    , who died September 8th, 1816. On January 7th, 1817, he married
                    Mrs. Elizabeth Beckes. His second wife was a widow of the Hon. William Clarke
                    Harvey and of Capt. Parmenas Beckes, sheriff of 
                        Knox county
                    , killed in a duel fought in 
                        Illinois
                     across the river from 
                        Vincennes
                    , July 15th, 1813. There were eight children in General
                    Johnston's family, — Anne Chew, (Daniel) William Harrison,
                    Benjamin Gray, Robert New, Jane Dorothy, General Parmenas Beckes, Celestine
                    Sophia and Gabriel Floyd.
            Several of the law books from General Johnston's library are to be found
                    in Indiana. His signatures as made with a 
                  
                     17Esarey, Harrison, Volume I,
                            230, 313, 317.
               
                     quill pen, and as found in some of his law
                    books, and on some of his legal papers, are reproduced as follows: 
            
            General Johnston practiced law until the day of his death, October 26, 1833.
                    There are on record many instances of deference accorded him by his fellow
                    citizens, which go to prove that he was an orator of unusual ability. He often
                    rendered legal services for Major T. Dubois, after whom Dubois county was named.
            We are not holding a brief for Masonry, nor a trowel for Masons; it is not
                    necessary; but, in going through many old records and newspapers it is found
                    that General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston's name is frequently mentioned in connection with
                         Masonry, a subject not always looked
                    upon with favor; but since it is so closely interwoven into Johnston's
                    life, it can not be omitted, unless you want Hamlet with Hamlet left out. 
                        Vincennes
                     had been settled by Frenchmen of a faith not very friendly to
                    Masonry, and for that reason the proposed organization of a Masonic lodge there
                    was not favorably received. Nevertheless Johnston said, "Let there be
                    light; and there was light."18 These are eight sublime words expressing
                    a command and a report that the command had been obeyed. On March 13th, 1809,
                    after many previous attempts, General Johnston succeeded in organizing what is
                    now known as 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge No. I. It has many relics to prove General
                    Johnston's worthiness as one of the craft—his own family
                    Bible, used by the Lodge for a century, being one highly valued. The lodge also
                    has an original jewel worn by General Johnston as an officer of the lodge. The 
                        Vincennes
                     lodge was organized under a dispensation from the Grand Lodge of 
                        Kentucky
                    . General Johnston was also responsible for the organization of the
                    Grand Lodge of Indiana, December 3rd, 1817. The Grand Lodge of Indiana Masons
                    was chartered by the Indiana Legislature.19 General Johnston was elected deputy
                    grand master and it is a tradition that he purposely stayed away from the
                    meeting in order to avoid election to the highest office in the gift of Blue
                    Lodge Masonry. Modesty and self-effacement may have been responsible for his
                    contentment with minor positions. His papers were more striking than his
                    personal appearance. In October, 1923, the Masons of Indiana, dedicated a
                    massive granite monument at a cost of $1,000 to the memory of General
                    W. Johnston, at his grave in the old section of the Greenlawn cemetery at 
                        Vincennes
                    . It is a belated tribute to a man of notable public service, but it
                    will serve a noble purpose, while the services of the day and the publicity
                    given General Johnston upon that occasion will forever help to keep his memory
                    green.
            On the west side and on the south side of the base of the General Johnston
                    monument are bronze tablets that tell of 
                  
                     18Genesis, 1—3.
                  
                     19Acts of 1821, Chapter 39.
               
                     General Johnston's services to
                    Masonry in Indiana. These words appear on the south tablet:
            
               PEN SKETCH OF THE GRANITE MONUMENT THE MASONS ERECTED AT THE GRAVE OF GENERAL
                        WASHINGTON JOHNSON, IN OCTOBER, 1923. IT IS OF GRANITE AND 25 FEET HIGH.
            
            
            ERECTED A. D. 1923, A. L. 5923,
            BY
            THE GRAND LODGE, F. AND A. M. INDIANA,
            AND VINCENNES LODGE NO. 1, F. AND
            A. M.
            IN GRATEFUL RECOGNITION
            OF THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICES OF
            GENERAL WASHINGTON JOHNSTON
            TO FREE MASONRY
            AND THE STATE. The west tablet bears these words:
            GENERAL WASHINGTON JOHNSTON,
            BORN NOVEMBER 10, 1776;
            DIED OCTOBER 26, 1833;
            FATHER OF MASONRY
            IN INDIANA TERRITORY;
            CREATOR OF VINCENNES LODGE NO. 1, F. AND
            A. M. MARCH 13, 1809;
            FOUNDER OF
            GRAND LODGE F. AND A. M. INDIANA DECEMBER 3, 1817.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     played well her part on the day this monument was dedicated. Among
                    other things one of the 
                        Vincennes
                     papers said: 
                        Echoing from the grave the days when men and women in flesh and blood
                            were building with their minds and hands the foundation on which now
                            stands a mighty empire within a nation, carved out of the old Northwest
                            Territory, Masons of 
                                Vincennes
                             Lodge No. 1, among the first in all the states of the old
                            Northwest, and of Indiana, paid homage to the memory of General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston, the founder of both lodges, and dedicated to him
                            in everlasting memorial a granite shaft commemorating the works of a
                            just and upright man and a worthy Mason, Thursday afternoon, October 25,
                            1923, at Greenlawn Cemetery.
                        General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston was among the empire builders. His life and the
                            lives of his contemporaries were spent in hewing out of savagery and
                            wilderness the Indiana and the states of the old Northwest as we know
                            them today. Thoughts of the time of his day and of ours as they were
                            recounted at the ceremonies yesterday afternoon caused conflicting
                            thoughts to rise concerning the passing of time. Dr. Logan Esarey,
                            commissioned to represent the Grand Lodge of Indiana at the  event, summed this thought in his address
                            on the times of General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston when he said that the accomplishments of one
                            hundred years in our land might be more marked than those of a thousand
                            years in the old countries.
                        Johnston saw the very beginning of our nation. He came to 
                                Vincennes
                             when the capital of the Northwest Territory was in
                            Marietta, 
                                Ohio
                            ; he saw the beginning of Indiana territory. He saw the
                            creation of Indiana into a sovereign state in this American Union.
                        In all his works, those of a true statesman, his modesty and
                            self-effacement stand out most conspicuously today. Records and legends
                            reveal him as one who walked in his station before God and man as a just
                            and upright citizen, doing well the works which were his to do and
                            achieving accomplishments worthy of everlasting fame.
                    
            
            When General Johnston's monument was dedicated, the Hon. Mason J.
                    Niblack, Past Grand Master of Indiana, who had made a particular study of
                    General Johnston's life and the history of 
                        Vincennes
                     in his period, delivered an address full of historic information.
                    Mr. Niblack said: 
                        General Johnston came to 
                                Vincennes
                             at the age of seventeen. It is not known how he came, but
                            he probably came through 
                                Kentucky
                            . It appears that he always had a close acquaintance with 
                                Louisville
                            . Records of his career show that he was an able scholar and
                            possessed a rare literary style. His public papers could well be taken
                            as a model of clearness and forcefulness. Gen. Johnston wrote the first
                            legal book in Indiana, The Justices’ and
                                Constables’ Guide. It has undergone many revisions
                            and comes down to the present day under the name of McDonald's
                            Treatise.
                    
            
            Mr. Niblack further said: 
                        After 
                                Vincennes
                             Lodge was established General Johnston was frequently
                            called upon to deliver Masonic addresses on days of Masonic
                            celebrations. As many as five of these addresses were published in the
                            Western Sun, at the times they were delivered. These addresses are
                            interesting and certainly well worth reading. They show the culture and
                            refinement of Johnston's mind. They are full of Masonic
                            learning and information and they actually sparkle with Masonic
                        lore.
                    
            
            In reporting the ceremonies of the day Johnston's monument was
                    dedicated, a 
                        Vincennes
                     paper said: 
                        One day less than ninety years after he laid down his labors in death,
                            Masons of Indiana and 
                                Vincennes
                             marched in solemn procession to the graveside of G. W.
                            Johnston to do honor to his memory. Seeing  the solemn procession enter the old
                            cemetery where lay the bones of men, women, and children who wrote their
                            chapters in the ever continuing story of 
                                Vincennes
                            , signed their names and passed it on to other writers to
                            add their brief bit before the soil reclaimed them, some such fleeting
                            thought as "life is not entirely in vain"
                            unconsciously entered the onlooker's mind.
                    
            
            The paper also said: 
                        Participants in the ceremonies perhaps felt no more solemn moment than
                            when General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston's maternal grandson, Alfred W. Harris, of 
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., himself a distinguished Mason and a past Grand Master
                            of Kentuck arose to unveil the granite monument erected to
                            Johnston's memory by 
                                Vincennes
                             Lodge No. 1, and the Grand Lodge of Indiana. Stepping to
                            the edge of the platform, erect and steady, voice clear and
                            far—reaching, although it trembled slightly with the burden
                            of years he said, "As man and Mason, nearing my
                            eighty—second year, this is the most honored moment of my
                            life." Walking down the path from the platform to the monument,
                            accompanied by grand officers of the day, the Knight Templars with drawn
                            swords, the venerable Mason slowly unwound the covering revealing to the
                            light the granite shaft which will forever after call to the minds of
                            men the exemplary life and deeds of so great and good a man as the one
                            in whose memory it was erected, his grandfather.
                    
            
            There yet live at 
                        Vincennes
                    , George W. Johnston and Frank Johnston, paternal grandsons of
                    General Johnston. The location of General Johnston's grave was
                    preserved by the thoughtfulness of a grandson in planting a maple tree at its
                    head and the sexton cutting "G. W. J." on a small stone and
                    placing it at the grave.
            Col. Joseph 
                        Hamilton
                        Daviess
                    , Grand Master Mason of 
                        Kentucky
                    , a friend of Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , and the official who prosecuted Aaron Burr, in 
                        Kentucky
                    , for treason, assisted General Johnston in the creation of 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge, 
                        Daviess
                     fell at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and was given a Masonic burial, on that Indiana battlefield.20. General Johnston was made a Mason by Abraham Lodge, No.
                    8, at 
                        Louisville
                     about 1807. He petitioned for membership in 1806. In 1813, General
                    Johnston lived in 
                        Louisville
                    , and served as Master of Abraham Lodge, No. 8. One of his children
                    was born in 
                        Louisville
                    .
            
               20Bsarey, Harrison, Volume I, 559 to 682.
            
            General Johnston lived at a time in American history that tried men's
                    souls. In his splendid address at 
                        Vincennes
                    , October 25th, 1923, Dr. Logan Esarey described General
                    Johnston's span of life in these words:  
            
            The period from 1776 to 1833, the span of life of the man we honor today, more
                    than any other equal period in history, marks the rise of the common man. Our
                    government is staked on the virtue and intelligence of the masses. For the first
                    time in history this class of society found itself free for action. The west is
                    and always has been the home of the common man, aristocracies of religion, of
                    culture and politics were discarded as useless baggage when the mountains were
                    crossed. There may have been Irish, Scotch, Germans, French and English; there
                    may have been Puritans and Cavaliers; servants, freemen and even a few nobles in
                    the west. It is peculiarly appropriate that Masons should celebrate this event
                    since no institution represents this emancipation of the common man better than
                    Masonry, none, that I know, quite so well.
            General Johnston's fraternal order made itself felt in the early annals
                    of Indiana. It did well its part in shaping the destinies of the young state. In
                    support of this statement, the names of a few early Masons will suffice. A line
                    of pioneers they are, such as Johnston, our subject; Judge 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , a Revolutionary officer, a jurist, and a territorial official;
                    Capt. Robert Buntin, another Revolutionary hero and Indian messenger; Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , a descendent of the Indian Princess Pocahontas,21 a brilliant son
                    of a brilliant family, a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and an accomplished scholar; 
                        United States
                     Senator Waller Taylor, another hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and pioneer statesman; Major William Prince, an Indian guide, a
                    sheriff, a congressman, and friend of General Harrison; Gen. Robert M. Evans,
                    whose name 
                        Evansville
                     bears; General John Gibson, a friend of Chief Logan, and to whom
                    that Indian warrior addressed his famous Indian classic, "And who is
                    there to mourn for Logan?"; Col. Joseph 
                        Hamilton
                        Daviess
                    , that typical fighting Kentuckian, a gentleman, a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , a classical scholar, and a renowned orator; Col. White, another
                    hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and pioneer character; Alexander Buckner, honored as
                    Indiana's first Grand Master; Col. Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                    , a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; Major Davis Floyd, an Indian mesenger 
                  
                     21 Esarey, Harrison, Volume I,
                            320.
               
                     and a prominent territorial official;
                    General John 
                        Tipton
                    , a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , a sheriff, a born Indian fighter, and a 
                        United States
                     senator; Lieut. Governor Christopher Harrison, of 
                        Salem
                    , a classical scholar, and romantic character; and, last but not
                    least, such pioneer governors as Thomas Posey, Jonathan Jennings, Noah Noble,
                    James B. Ray and David Wallace. You read these names today in counties, towns,
                    and cities of this and other states.
            On tradition's pages it is said Tecumseh was a Mason, but it does not
                    appear that he was ever recognized as such at 
                        Vincennes
                    ; however, there were many Masons among Indian chiefs, raised to the
                    third degree in British army lodges. They did not get their degrees at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and never saw the three lights of masonry in the 
                        Vincennes
                     lodge. After all there is a quaint and dreamy beauty about the life
                    of Tecumseh, and history cannot help but bow in reverence for the stand he took,
                    and the record he, and others like him, made. We must not forget to pay our
                    tribute of respect and lay a wreath at the shrine of any man who fights for his
                    race even though he be an Indian. Since the sunrise of Hoosier history few men
                    connected with it has a more romantic history than Tecumseh.
            Johnston was the northeast cornerstone of Indiana Masonry. As before stated
                    Masonry did not meet with a friendly welcome, in the meridian height and glory
                    of the day at old 
                        Vincennes
                    ; but, in time, its lights threw a ray even unto the remote corners
                    of the territory, and Johnston's fraternal order, free soil, and free
                    education, became legacies for future generations. Johnston was for free soil.
                    Somehow he must have felt that from deep in the midst of time and all along the
                    difficult road which mankind has trod, in joy and pain, in achievements and
                    sacrifice, the cry for liberty has always gone up to a fair heaven. It was heard
                    even in old 
                        Virginia
                     and it could not have been misunderstood, and was not misunderstood
                    by Thomas Jefferson and others like him, even if they did live in Dixie. This is
                    shown by the fact that before the Civil war a few colored children from the
                    south, and several from Indiana were educated at an institution near 
                        Hanover
                     in the same class room with whites. On the cornerstone of a school
                    building at the 
                        Franklin
                     Masonic Home are these words:
            
            EDUCATION, MASONRY'S BEST LEGACY TO HER CHILDREN
            A. D. 1923.
            This cornerstone shows that we are now living in the light of a new day, and in
                    the spirit of a progressive age.
            As you read these lines, no doubt, you have said to yourself, "What was
                    there back of General W. Johnston? Somewhere along the line his
                    ancestors must have been real men and women." We are indebted to Alfred
                    W. Harris, Esq., of 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , a maternal
                    grandson of General Johnston, for the following genealogy of the Johnston
                    family. It gives a complete and decisive answer to your questions. The genealogy
                    was compiled by Prof. William Preston Johnston, eldest son of General Albert
                    Sidney Johnston, the Confederate general who fell at 
                        Shiloh
                    , and his wife Henrietta Preston Johnston. Prof. Johnston was
                    professor of History in 
                        Washington
                     and Lee University, and later professor of history in Tulane
                    University. He also wrote a Life of Albert Sidney Johnston.
                    The genealogy follows: 
                        The genealogy follows:
                        "The beginning was Lord James Johnston, II Earl of Annadale, 
                                Scotland
                            ; next in line was Lord William Johnston, III Earl and I
                            Marquis of Annandale, 
                                Scotland
                            , 1691. Lord William Johnston married Sophia Fairholm, of
                            Craigie Hall, in the county of Sterling, and had two sons, James
                            Johnston, heir and afterwards II Marquis of Annandale; and Lord William
                            Johnston, Jr. who as the result of a duel fought September 4, 1721, in
                            which he severely wounded his opponent, came to America, being then
                            twenty—six years of age. He settled in 
                        Fredericksburg, Virginia
                     , in 1722. There Lord
                            William Johnston, Jr., married Anne Chew, (after whom General W.
                            Johnston named one daughter). Two sons were born to Lord William
                            Johnston, Jr., and Anne Chew, and they were named Archibald Johnston and
                            Benjamin Johnston. Benjamin Johnston was the father of General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston, and herein lies the reason why General Johnston
                            often used the word "gentleman" after his name.
                    
            
            In the 
                        Vincennes
                     Gazette of November 9, 1833, appeared this obituary signed
                    "S", —an unusually long obituary for
                    Johnston's day and generation: 
                    
                    
                    
                        Departed this life on the 26th ult. Gen. W. Johnston, Esq., in the 59th
                            year of his age. He was born in Culpepper county, Va., and came to this
                            borough in 1794. He was one of the very oldest immigrants to this part
                            of the country. The writer of this paragraph (which is far too short and
                            imperfect adequately to detail his merits) does not design to eulogize
                            him now, for "flattery" cannot "soothe the
                            dull cold ear of death," but to pay a just tribute of respect
                            to departed worth. As a lawyer he stood deservedly high. His reading in
                            his profession was varied and deep, and he used the advantages which he
                            possessed for the advancement of the interest of his clients’
                            justice. He filled many honorable offices with credit to himself and
                            usefulness to the people. As a legislator he was discriminating,
                            industrious, intelligent, and dignified. As a president judge he
                            preserved the sanctity of the "ermine," and was
                            equally impregnable to flattery and intimidation. As a magistrate he was
                            enlightened and faithful to his trust. And, in the various relations of
                            a Christian citizen, husband and father, he was not surpassed. He was
                            one of that noble and gallant band that presented a fearless front to
                            the murderous tomahawk and deadly rifle on the well contested and bloody
                            field of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            . His death has left a blank in our society which will not
                            readily be filled. He was buried with Masonic honors and the large
                            concourse of citizens that followed his remains to the grave, proclaimed
                            the respect entertained for his memory. S.
                    
            
            Johnston certainly has three bright jewels in his diadem, and they are all
                    free—Free Soil, Freemasonry and Free Public Education. All were put
                    here when their uses were questioned, not only in the wilderness of southern
                    Indiana, but in many other places. History tells us Free Soil and Free Schools
                    were not wanted in 
                        Virginia
                    , Johnston's old home; while in Johnston's day,
                    Masons in many parts of the 
                        United States
                     were referred to as "Morgan Killers." The
                    evidences of years, the mellowing influences of time, and the grace and culture
                    of the day, show beyond a reasonable doubt, that the work and the influence of
                    General Johnston have not been in vain and that they will be with us always.
                    "So mote it be."
            
               
                  
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana, January 1, 1924.
         
         
         
            John Hay Farnham
            Elizabeth Tucker Cauble, 
                        Salem
                    
            
            (Presented at a meeting of the 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society.)
            In beautiful Crown Hill cemetery—"Our
                    Silent City"—as you may wander thru the historic part, known
                    as the Old Cemetery, you will be attracted to a large maple tree, where a marble
                    slab was wont to lean against its base.
            Perhaps you are not interested in knowing the history of the march of
                    time—then this slab will mean naught to you. Perhaps you are one who
                    enjoys looking into the past, viewing thru the message written the lives and
                    works of the hands long ceased from labor. If you are of this class we beg you
                    to pause at this old tree, and read carefully the inscription on the slab, for
                    time has almost obliterated the history chisled nearly a century ago. This is
                    the inscription you will find:
            John Hay Farnham
            Born in Mass. A. D. 1791.
            A graduate of 
                        Harvard
                     University
            A devoted friend to the interests of the West,
            Who with
            Eveleen Marie, exemplary as a wife, mother and christian,
            And their Infant, died of cholera, July, 1833.
            Four children sleep beside them,
            Two orphans mourn their loss.
            At the right of the tree stands another old stone, with the simple inscription:
                    "William Farnham—Born 1760–Died 1829."
            Then come the questions, who was John Hay Farnharn? What did he
                    do? What part did he play in the history of our community and state,
                    that after a lapse of almost a century we of this HISTORICAL SOCIETY, should
                    pause and pay tribute to his name?
            To give you a complete biographical sketch of this illustrious character is
                    impossible, but to present, altho in a scattered manner, gleanings for his
                    memory, is our duty and pleasure.  From the 
                        
                            Washington County
                        
                    
                    History and from articles of reminiscences of 
                        Washington county
                    , written by men who lived here in the days gone by, have come our
                    sources of information.
            John Hay Farnham was a brother—in—law of Dr. Charles Hay,
                    father of John 
                        Milton
                     Hay; he had come to 
                        Salem
                    , before Dr. Hay, from New 
                        England
                    . The wives of these two men, who were to play such an important
                    part in the early history of 
                        Salem
                    , were sisters, Helen and Eveleen Leonard. They lived in Harrison
                    county, but their birthplace was near New 
                  Bedford, Massachusetts
               . These girls were Seminary pupils, and
                    gained great fame by their ability in reading Latin. Thru the marriage of these
                    sisters, was established a strong bond between the Hay and Farnham families.
            John Hay Farnham was a brilliant lawyer and a speaker of state reputation. One
                    writer speaks of him as an eminent lawyer of stout frame and giant mind. Next to
                    Judge Benjamin Parke, he possessed the largest library in 
                        Salem
                    . From every thot written by men who were active in the affairs of 
                        Salem
                     at that time, we find the ability of John Farnham praised, and
                    while not popular, every one acknowledged him a man of sterling ability.
            From an old letter by Z. B. Sturgis, written in 1880, we find this:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Mr. Farnham was a graduate of 
                                        Harvard
                                     University, and a classmate of Edward Everett. He
                                    had the misfortune of being born too soon for his own popularity
                                    in Indiana. Of the excellent public school system of Indiana (of
                                    which we as Hoosiers are justly proud), he was the champion
                                    before the people were ready for it. He was a ripe scholar, who
                                    spent his winters in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , turning an honest penny, by writing speeches for
                                    members of the legislature, from the rural districts. Even a
                                    governor, James Ray, in welcoming 
                                        Lafayette
                                     to Indiana, was not above availing himself of Mr.
                                    Farnham's eloquent pen.
                     
                  
               
                
            From Frederick S. Mead, editor of the 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Alumni Director, we have learned that John Hay Farnham
                    received his A. B. from 
                        Harvard
                     in 1811 and his A. M. in 1821.
            He and his wife were victims of the cholera, that decimated 
                        Salem
                     in 1833, and only two children were left of his family, a son,
                    William, and a daughter, Catherine, who were cared for  in the home of Dr. Charles Hay. They have since
                    joined their parents.
            That John Farnham was prominent in his home town, and his ability recognized is
                    abundantly shown, for no public meeting was complete without an address, talk,
                    or toast, by John Farnham.
            On July 4, 1826, when 
                        Salem
                     celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of American Independence, he
                    delivered the address. His subject was "The Necessity of the Public
                    School System in Indiana." "His position on the question of
                    free schools and more education for the masses, was far in advance of his
                    day," says a writer, "and for his public utterances along this
                    line, he was bitterly assailed and relentlessly condemned on every
                    hand." But nothing daunted, he battled manfully for what he though was
                    right, against all opposition.
            His was the voice proclaiming the gift of education to Indiana, and from the
                    prophecy made in his speech, we, of today are enjoying the blessings.
            This story from one of the older men of our county had been told to Mr. John L.
                    Schrum, (an attorney) of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, who very kindly gave the story to me. 
                        This is the story, as nearly as it is possible for me to give it, as it
                            was related to me in 1899 by Mr. George Paynter, at that time one of the
                            older surviving natives of your and my native county, a man above the
                            average of men in intelligence and in the observation of public affairs
                            and one possessing a most remarkable memory of historical affairs:
                        John Hay Farnham, an uncle of the renowned John Hay, was a graduate of 
                                Harvard
                             Law School who came west almost a century ago and selected 
                                Salem
                             as his location for the practice of law. He was not long in
                            establishing a reputation as a man learned in his profession, a close
                            student of politics and a brilliant orator. Though modest in his
                            demeanor, he did not fail to gain the interest and the respect of those
                            with whom he associated.
                        It was the custom in those days, more generally than now, for the people
                            in each community to assemble annually in the observance of the
                            anniversary of our Declaration of Independence and on such occasions
                            they listened with great interest to the reading of that expression of
                            the principles on which our government is founded. Some capable speaker
                            was chosen to deliver an address in which the basic principles as
                            formulated in our constitution were expounded and the topics involving
                            the common interests of the people were discussed. Education  even in the rudiments of science, was not
                            then considered as important as clearing the ground, tilling the soil
                            and the establishment of homes. Mr. Farnham was among the few who were
                            well aware of the importance of a more general education among the
                            people in order to fit them for the responsibilities of a popular form
                            of government, and in the year 1826 that question was uppermost in his
                            mind.
                        The committee appointed for the selection of a speaker on the occasion of
                            the celebration of our independence for that year invited Mr. Farnham to
                            deliver the chief oration. He, with such modesty as is usual among men
                            possessing well balanced minds, reluctantly consented on one condition,
                            namely, that he be permitted to discuss the importance of a common
                            school system for the recently organized state. The committee feared to
                            concede that condition, mainly for the reason of the effect such a
                            discussion would have on the popularity of the speaker; and it frankly
                            endeavored to convince Mr. Farnham that the advocacy of such a policy
                            would create a sentiment against him, because, as the committee thought,
                            it was not in harmony with the doctrine of democracy. Mr. Farnham
                            insisted, however; and the committee concluding that no other speaker as
                            capable and interesting as he could be found for the occasion finally
                            yielded and the advocacy of a public school system in Indiana was the
                            principal theme of Mr. Farnham's oration at 
                                Salem
                            , July 4th, 1826.
                        The effect of the discussion was as the committee feared. Mr. Farnham did
                            become very unpopular for a time. The pioneers could not see the justice
                            of taxation of their property for the education of the children of those
                            who had no property for taxation. Mr. Farnham was, in fact, almost
                            ostracized for a time.
                        But there were men of intelligence, conservative as well as progressive
                            in those days who recognized the intellectual ability of Mr. Farnham;
                            and it is said that for the few remaining years his services were in
                            general demand in shaping the course of legislation in the general
                            assembly. Not a few of the leaders among the people of those days had
                            acquired their popularity by the reason of their military careers; and
                            many of them were wholly unable to express understandingly their views
                            in civic affairs. It is said that many of the speeches delivered by some
                            of those leaders were either prepared throughout or whipped into shape
                            for them by Mr. Farnham.
                        As deep and hidden waters bear the tides
                        That move from shore around the seas, So on the thoughts of
                            unknown men still rides
                        The Ship of State, tho’ swayed by every breeze.
                        He was not destined to live many years. In 1833 the cholera scourge
                            visited this state. He fell a victim to its demands and the state lost
                            one of its fearless and most promising statesmen; one who was in his
                            prime and just beginning to acquire the deserved prominence of the  people as well as the renown a man
                            so courageous should acquire. While others have gained credit for the
                            enactment of the laws which have so firmly established and developed a
                            common school system, John Hay Farnham must always be regarded as a
                            pioneer who blazed the way for it.
                        His remains lie buried in Crown Hill Cemetery and
                            our people of succeeding generations, whose advancement in knowledge
                            through our common school system have gained for Indiana notable
                            distinction throughout the entire nation, can never show too much
                            respect for the hallowed spot now marked as his final resting place.
                        In January, 1830, he assisted in the organization of the Indiana
                            Historical Society, "which had for its object the collection
                            and preservation of all materials calculated to shed light on the
                            natural, civil and political history of Indiana, the publication and
                            circulation of historical documents, the promotion of useful knowledge
                            and the friendly and profitable intercourse of such citizens as are
                            disposed to promote these ends."
                    
            
            From the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society librarian, Julius H. Tuttle, we have this
                    information that John Hay Farnham was elected a corresponding member of this
                    socity on August 30, 1831, having been nominated by Rev. Samuel 
                        Ripley
                    .
            Dr. A. W. King is authority for his name among the list of trustees of the 
                        Washington County
                     seminary.
            From the Indiana Phoenix of February 27, 1833, and the Western Annotater of March 2, 1833, we read of the celebration
                    of 
                        Washington
                    's Birthday in 
                        Salem
                    , with John H. Farnham on the program. An eloquent and impressive
                    eulogy on the character and virtues of the "Father of His
                    Country" was selected and read by him, with a few appropriate remarks.
                    The company then proceeded to the Union Hall and partook of an excellent dinner.
                    After the cloth was removed, a number of toasts were given. This was given by
                    him; "The Cause of Temperance in 
                        Washington County
                    —Patronized by so many respectable citizens and advocates
                    of both sexes it can not fail to prosper."
            His place of residence in 
                        Salem
                     was where the Charles Mobley home now stands. When the scourge of
                    cholera swept thru the town, as told before, the home of John Farnham was laid
                    low, and death swept this brilliant life from our history's page. The
                    two orphan children were cared for in the home of Dr. Charles Hay.
            
            John P. Scott pays tribute to these men of 
                        Salem
                     pioneer days, among them John H. Farnham, and says: 
                        They were of the order of men who found governments and build cities. I
                            call them Romans, for their earnest devotion to the moral and material
                            interests of their town and county. There is rarely found now so many
                            men in one community. It is my habit in speaking of them to call them
                            monumental men.
                    
            
            And what greater monument can one have than to have given to Indiana her system
                    of free schools, and to have helped found and organize the Historical Society of
                    Indiana, whose gleams thru the passing years have lighted the way for us today
                    to "carry on" the work of his vision.
            Through these years John Hay Farnham has slept unknown to the world of his great
                    service to our own fair state. May we not acclaim him one of 
                        Salem
                    's Monumental Men?
            Thru the interest and appreciation of the 
                        Salem
                     Cemetery Association the marble slab that marks his grave has been
                    securely placed and will mark the resting place of the "man of the
                    ages," in the history of 
                        Salem
                    .
         
         
         
            Early Methodism In 
                        Clay County
                    
            
            By Albert Fletcher Bridges, D. D., LL. D.
            In 1826 the 
                        Illinois
                     annual conference of the Methodist Episcopal church, which until
                    1832 included the state of Indiana, organized a 
                        Wabash
                     district, of which Charles Holliday was appointed presiding elder.
                    Richard Hargrave was appointed preacher in charge of Honey Creek circuit, with
                    Aaron Wood assistant. Western 
                        Clay county
                     was included in that circuit.
            In 1834 the Indiana annual conference, which had just been organized, appointed
                    Amasa Johnson preacher in charge of the Eel River mission,
                    which was within the boundaries of the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, of which James Armstrong was presiding elder. In 1835
                    Isaac Owen was appointed preacher in charge of the Otter Creek mission, also in
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, of which Aaron Wood was presiding elder. The mission
                    included part of western and northern 
                        Clay county
                     in its territory, which was large as circuits generally were in
                    those days.
            Previous to 1835 an occasional preaching appointment had been established at a
                    tavern, or road-house, on the historic National road, just beyond the present
                    western limits of 
                        Brazil
                    . The tavern was then owned by Phillip Hedges. It afterward became
                    the property of James Cunningham. Here Aaron Wood held a quarterly meeting in
                    1835 when the nearest town east of 
                        Terre Haute
                     was Pleasant Garden, twenty-six miles distant. It was a small
                    village located on the National road. It has since been practically absorbed by
                    Reelsville, a nearby station on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     railroad.
            In 1833 the residence of Major Ringo, near the present site of Williamstown, two
                    miles west of 
                        Brazil
                     became a place for holding occasional religious services. In 1835 a
                    class of eight members was organized here under the labors of John Crutchfield
                    of which Mr. Ringo was appointed leader. William Moore and Henry Rule, with
                    members of their families,  were of the
                    number originally composing the class. After the neighborhood had become thickly
                    settled and convenient houses of worship had been erected, the leader's
                    residence remained for several years a popular place for holding meetings. Just
                    before his death in 1877 he recalled the names of the following ministers, who,
                    mostly, in the order named, preached in his residence: Isaac Owen, John
                    Crutchfield, Daniel Demott, Thomas Bartlett, Cornelius Swank, Samuel Cooper,
                    John R. Tansy, Ezra L. Kemp, Asa Beck, Byram Carter, W. H. Grim, John Williams,
                    J. E. Brant, J. B. 
                        Hamilton
                    , and Elias Gaskins, covering a period of forty years. That his
                    residence should have remained for so long a time a place of public worship
                    demonstrates his leadership and zeal in the Master's cause. As a result
                    of his leadership in inspiring the class to activity, a camp meeting, the first
                    perhaps in the history of Methodism in 
                        Clay county
                    , was held at a point eight miles west of 
                        Brazil
                     and a short distance north of Cloverland in 1838.
            Although the beginning was feeble, the region of country of which 
                        Brazil
                     is now the center, without an intermission, has been recognized in
                    the appointments of annual conferences since 1834. This illustrates the
                    practical polity of a church which always finds a work for every preacher and a
                    preacher for every work. The ministerial residence has not always been in the
                    immediate neighborhood; on the contrary, it has been quite distant at times in
                    order to be in the center of the circuit. In the days of the fathers, the
                    minister's home was not so much like the homes of the laity as now; it
                    was rather a starting point for long journeys in all directions.
            Otter Creek mission survived two years under that name. In 1836 it was still in
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, with Aaron Wood as presiding elder, and with Samuel
                    Cooper as preacher in charge. In 1837 the 
                        Terre Haute
                     circuit was formed, with Daniel Demott and Daniel H. Dickerson as
                    preachers in charge. John Miller succeeded Dr. Wood as presiding elder of the
                    district in that year. The 
                        Terre Haute
                     circuit continued for four years as such, and was ministered unto
                    by a senior and a junior preacher each year. Their names were as follows: In
                    1838 Daniel Demott and Thomas Bartlett; in 1839,  Cornelius Swank. and Thomas Bartlett; in 1840,
                    Cornelius Swank and Ezra L. Kemp. John Miller continued presiding elder
                    throughout that period.
            In 1841 the circuit was included in the 
                        Greencastle
                     district, of which E. R. Ames, afterward one of the bishops of the
                    church, was presiding elder. He was succeeded soon by Allen Wiley. In 1841 John
                    S. Bayless was appointed to the 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     and Otter Creek circuit. George M. Beswick was presiding elder of
                    the district. In 1842 the work was known as the Prairieton circuit, with Ezra L.
                    Kemp and John R. Tansy as preachers in charge. The next year it was known as the
                    Little Walnut mission of which J. R. Tansy was pastor.
            In 1844 the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, of which H. S. Talbot was presiding elder, included the
                    Bowling Green circuit, of which Jesse C. Harbin was pastor. The First M. E.
                    church, as it is now called, was organized shortly after the county seat was
                    located there, which was in 1825, at the organization of the county. The brick
                    building, which was torn down in 1914 when the present structure was erected,
                    was built about 1836. In dimensions it was about 36x60 feet. It was expected
                    that the town would grow to meet its capacity, which was never done. It was
                    located on the present site, a corner lot facing the east, with a northern
                    exposure on the street running north from the center of the courthouse square.
                    Bowling Green circuit was first recognized by the Indiana annual conference in
                    1844. Previous to this, the class was included in other circuits, as in 1847 it
                    was attached to the Lockport circuit, when Abram Wright of the laity, was
                    appointed the supply.
            E. W. Burris and Asa Beck succeeded Jesse C. Harbin at Bowling Green in 1845.
                    They served two years.
            A. Wright, who was a prominent figure in early 
                        Clay county
                     Methodism, preached at Lockport and elsewhere in Vigo county,
                            
                  Brazil, Poland
               , Bowling Green and other places in
                            
                  Clay; Jordan
                village in Owen; and at some appointments in
                    Green counties. He lived in 
                        Jordan
                     village. He lived to a ripe old age, but remained till the last a
                    good singer, and an able and effective preacher. He gave three sons to the
                    ministry —Owen, a lay preacher;
                    Henry Wilson, of the Indiana conference; and John Wesley, of the Southern 
                        Illinois
                    , and later of 
                  Iowa, Kansas
               
                    and 
                        Ohio
                     conferences.
            In 1840 my paternal grandfather, Rev. Dillon 
                        Wayne
                     Bridges, Sr., moved to a farm a mile south of 
                        Jordan
                     village. He was a good singer, an able exhorter, and an efficient
                    preacher. His supply ministry, in aid of pastors, included Bowling Green, 
                        Poland
                    , Wesley Chapel and camp meeting, six miles southeast of 
                        Brazil
                    , and other portions of 
                        Clay
                     and Owen counties. From 1851 to 1861 he resided on a farm near 
                        Poland
                    , in 1861 to 1864 at Bowling Green. He died in 
                        Brazil
                     in October 1865.
            John Williams, 0. H. P. Ash, E. B. Adamson, and Samuel Hollingsworth, efficient
                    lay preachers, were also members of the Bowling Green class.
            In 1850 the 
                        Brazil
                     mission was re-established. 
                        Brazil
                     has given name to the fields of labor including the city ever
                    since. Part of the time Staunton, Harmony, Wesley Chapel and other points,
                    though not at all at once, have been associated with 
                        Brazil
                    . Prior to 1879 the church became a self-supporting station, and has
                    remained an important field since, being one of the strong charges of the
                    Northwest Indiana annual conference. The name has been changed to First Church.
                    In the city there are Epworth and Bethel churches, which support a pastor. There
                    are other important charges at Harmony, Knightsville, Staunton, Peniel, and
                    elsewhere.
            Meanwhile as the country has developed other points of interest mentioned in this
                    history have become stations and circuits in their own names.
            The original class of which Hendrix Chapel, the name under which the church was
                    dedicated in 1879, was the outgrowth, was organized in 1839, at the residence of
                    James Hull, near the southeast corner of Meridian and Main streets, the latter
                    now National avenue, in 
                        Brazil
                    . James Raradin, who had recently settled just east of
                    Morgan's Crossing on the National road, two miles distant, was
                    appointed classleader. Among the original members of the class, who composed it
                    entirely, were James Raradin and wife; James Hull, wife and daughter; Joel
                    Thorpe and wife; Benjamin Hedges  and Samuel
                    Butts. At the time Cornelius Swank and Thomas Bartlett were preachers in charge
                    and E. R. Ames was presiding elder. 
                        Brazil
                     was then included in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     circuit. A regular preaching appointment was established at the
                    Hull residence in 1840, with Cornelius Swank and Ezra L. Kemp, preachers in
                    charge, who met the class alternately every four weeks. Allen Wiley was
                    presiding elder.
            In 1841 the class changed its place of meeting from the Hull residence to a
                    schoolhouse a short distance eastward on the same street. Two years later Owen
                    Thorpe moved from the present site of Harmony into a little log house at the
                    southeast corner of Main and Meridian streets in 
                        Brazil
                    . Another log house ten by twelve feet in dimensions, was added as a
                    west wing to the original Thorpe residence, and into this the class moved its
                    various appointments.
            Here the class met and worshipped for a year. Mr. Thorpe meanwhile founded 
                        Brazil
                    . As the town existed only in name, he added in the same year a
                    small frame apartment to his double log house, thereby extending it to Main
                    street. He also added a room to the west end of his residence, which, though not
                    large, was sufficient to extend to Meridian street. In this room he opened the
                    first store in 
                        Brazil
                    . He also donated a lot on what is now the southwest corner of
                    Church and 
                        Franklin
                     streets, and assisted in erecting on it a log building of becoming
                    proportions which was to be at once a schoolhouse, a church and a town hall. The
                    house was begun and completed in 1845. Its entire cash outlay was four dollars
                    and forty cents, the cost of nails and glass. The importance of this enterprise
                    best appears when it is remembered that it was wholly in advance of its time.
                    There was no town to occupy it as a hall, scarcely enough children in reach to
                    justify its use as a schoolhouse, and no religious organization to worship in it
                    except the little class which worshipped comfortably in a log apartment whose
                    dimensions were no more than ten by twelve feet. It was indeed a kind of
                    fore-runner, built not so much for present as for future use,—a hint
                    of spacious city halls and costly temples of worship yet to be, and of
                    magnificent edifices for graded schools of an after generation. Withal, it
                    served as a pesthouse when 
                        Brazil
                     was scourged with the smallpox in 1856.
            
            Into the building thus provided the little class moved in 1845. Mr. Raradin was
                    then leader and J. C. Harbin was preacher in charge. Abram Wright was associated
                    with Mr. Harbin, as he says the log church was built during his pastorate. He
                    probably succeeded Mr. Harbin by appointment of the presiding elder, thus
                    serving his first term as pastor.
            The log church, the name by which the building is best remembered, was not
                    dedicated by formal services; but, by rich effusions of the Holy Spirit, without
                    which no edifice is truly the dwelling-place of the Most High, it was set aside
                    for the one great purpose of the variety for which it was built. Once within it,
                    the class increased in number and importance. This was due mainly to the
                    development of the community. The fact that the building of meagre capacity,
                    whose erection involved such a small cash outlay, continued a popular place of
                    religious worship until 1857, indicates the tardy growth of 
                        Brazil
                     and vicinity during that period.
            In 1857 the 
                        Brazil
                     circuit included ten appointments: 
                        Brazil
                    , Croy's Creek, Pleasant Garden, 
                        New Salem
                    , Wesley Chapel, 
                        Shiloh
                    , Newberg, Lowdermilk's, Moss's, and
                    Simonson's schoolhouses. According to an official report at the first
                    of the year, the aggregate membership of the circuit was 220. This estimate
                    evidently did not include all the members. In some instances, heads of families
                    only were counted. Otherwise, the year was unusually successful in increase, for
                    which there is no proof, as conference statistics report 500 members and 25
                    probationers at the end of the year. The class at 
                        Brazil
                     consisted of 40 members. Perhaps the number was 75 or 80. The
                    ministerial claim for that year was $400. Of this amount, 
                        Brazil
                     was assessed $82.80. Assessment was made according to
                    the number of members. This accounts for the under-estimate of the members at
                    the various appointments. 
                        Brazil
                     paid the assessment, with a small excess.
            These facts afford at least a partial view of the class at the completion of the
                    frame building in 1858 which was superseded by Hendrix Chapel in 1879.
            Among the members at that time were Mark Bruffee, T. M. Buck and Samuel
                    Hollingsworth, lay preachers. Other lay preachers were connected with the
                    society later in its  history, of whom were
                    Dillon 
                        Wayne
                     Bridges, Sr., and Abram Wright, who moved to 
                        Brazil
                    , the former in 1864 and the latter in 1865; but they do not belong
                    to the period under consideration. The former died in October, 1865, followed
                    two years later by his wife, Lydia, who was a daughter of Rev. Joel Haven, of
                    Flemingsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    , a cousin of Rev. James Haven, a well-known and able pioneer
                    minister in Indiana.
            Mr. Bruffee moved to 
                        Brazil
                     in an early day from 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was an active and efficient worker in the church. He is
                    remembered for earnestness of purpose, simplicity of manner and depth of piety.
                    By observing family worship one night in his 
                        Kentucky
                     cabin in the presence of a welldressed, intelligent-looking guest,
                    before whom he was embarrassed, he was the instrument in a conversion to
                    Christianity and an accession to the ministry in the 
                        Virginia
                     annual conference. His guest was a banker and had considerable
                    wealth on his person. He was overtaken by night. He mistook Bruffee's
                    cabin for the rendezvous of outlaws and thought his life was in danger. He found
                    such comfort in the reading of the Bible and the prayer that followed that he
                    renounced his infidelity and became a preacher of the book he had denounced as
                    false.
            Mr. Hollingsworth moved from Bowling Green to 
                        Brazil
                     in 1856. He was then an exhorter. On the resignation of Rev. A. D.
                    Cunningham in the spring of 1858 he was appointed as his successor to serve till
                    the next session of the Indiana annual conference in September. At the last
                    quarterly conference in that year he was licensed to preach. During the brief
                    term of his pastorate, which was one of acceptability and usefulness, the frame
                    church was completed and dedicated. He died in 1870. He left to the general
                    church an able minister in his son, James H., formerly a member of the Northwest
                    Indiana annual conference.
            In addition to these ministers, the society was blessed with class-leaders of
                    ability in Eli Hendrix, Isaac Wilson, Thomas Henderson and others. During Mr.
                    Brant's pastorate, from 1865 to 1868, there were three classes that met
                    at different hours under separate leaders. On quarterly meeting occasions,  a general class, or love feast, was held at
                    3 p. in., followed by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. This service
                    was largely attended.
            Among the preachers in charge who officiated in the log church, beside J. C.
                    Harbin, were Asa Beck, E. W. Burris, Abram Wright, Elias Gaskins, James
                    Armstrong, A. W. Shiveley, Cornelius Swank, Lemuel Payne, Joseph W. Asbury, and
                    A. D. Cunningham. The presiding elders, who had charge of the districts
                    including 
                        Brazil
                     during that period, were H. S. Talbott, Joseph Tarkington, William
                    M'Ginnis and John Kiger.
            The ministers and laymen prominent in this local but important history have
                    nearly if not quite all passed to their reward. They builded better than they
                    knew. The state was subsequently divided into four annual conferences. In 1868 
                        Brazil
                     was included in the Northwest conference and became separated from
                    the Indiana conference pastors who made the society what it was then. This was a
                    distinct loss in the way of reunions and anniversary gatherings. These former
                    pastors laid the foundation whereon others have built. Their successors are
                    reaping rewards of labors that called for faith and hard work, but not in vain.
            In 1856, while Lemuel Payne was pastor, a church building was determined on as a
                    necessity. This necessity was due to the log church giving way. The building had
                    developed a tendency to fall down. This tendency was partially arrested by a
                    system of props, some of which extended over the doorway itself. At last it was
                    determined to abandon the structure to its fate. Accordingly, Eli Hendrix, Ezra
                    Olds and Rev. S. Hollingsworth were appointed a committee to solicit
                    subscriptions and to award contract. The first subscription paper was dated
                    March 1, 1856. It is a curious document. It contains just thirteen names with an
                    aggregate of $64.00 in cash and its equivalent. One entry is as
                    follows: "I am in favor of a union church in 
                        Brazil
                    , but I will give $5.00 for the above church when
                    finished (provided it is finished in six months)." The building was not
                    finished within the specified time; but, to the credit of the subscriber, the
                    subscription, which compared well with the rest, was nearly all paid. Other
                    papers  were started in time with better
                    success; and in July, 1857, the contract was awarded to F. S. Sampson and Thomas
                    J. Hadden. In six months the building was occupied for Sunday school and church
                    services, although unfinished. It was dedicated August 29, 1858. The dedicatory
                    sermon was delivered by William M. Daily, D. D., then president of the Indiana
                    University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . The sermon, from the text in Revelation xiv. 6, has since been
                    published under the title of The Flying Angel in a volume of
                    sermons by this eloquent pulpit orator. John Kiger, presiding elder of the
                    district, and Prof. H. B. Hibben, of the Indiana University, were present at the
                    dedication. Eli Hendrix gave the property to the church at large in behalf of
                    the trustees after a debt of $300.00 had been paid.
            The entire cost of the frame church did not amount to $1,500. This
                    estimate includes the valuable half-block on which it was built, and on which
                    the church edifice and parsonage now stand. The lots were originally a gift from
                    Charles Moore, M. D.; but on his death, before a deed was written, an inaccuracy
                    in a survey, which included Church and Meridian streets, only a portion of the
                    lots were transferred. A strip on the north and east was afterward bought at
                    $200.00 expense to secure title to the complete half-block.
            Delay in completing the building was occasioned by various causes. The society
                    did not number more than 80, including men, women and children. The surrounding
                    country was but thinly settled. The wealth of future years was locked up in rich
                    but wholly undeveloped, if not undiscovered, coal deposits. 
                        Brazil
                     had scarcely 300 inhabitants. Subscriptions had to be obtained from
                    opposing sects and from all classes of people. Almost every village and
                    important settlement in the county was represented in the list of subscribers.
                    The building was the finest and most costly in 
                        Brazil
                    . As a church edifice the country for miles in all directions did
                    not afford an equal.
            In 1858 J. W. Asbury was returned to the work after a year's
                    intermission. Under his ministry in the winter of 1856—57, the
                    society at 
                        Brazil
                     was increased by many permanent accessions. In this time of need he
                    was returned at the unanimous request of the circuit. He was succeeded in 1859
                         by J. R. Williams who remained two
                    years. The following ministers then travelled the work; L. M. Walters, a year;
                    G. W. Bower, two years; George W. Asbury a year; J. E. Brant, three years.
            Mr. Brant's pastorate, the only one in the history of the church thus
                    far which covers the full disciplinary term of three years, begun with the close
                    of the Civil war. The return of the soldiers had aroused society from its
                    lethargy. A work of reorganization was to be wrought. It was to be a revival in
                    religion as well as in all other branches of human activity. A man of tireless
                    energy, frank, genial, of fine social qualities and a good preacher, Mr. Brant
                    was well-qualified for the work to be done. Revival followed revival until
                    within the bounds of the circuit during his ministry, hundreds were converted
                    and added to the church. At 
                        Brazil
                     alone there were 200 accessions. In 1865 the parsonage was built,
                    the church edifice was remodeled and improved at $500 cost and the
                    north and east strips necessary to complete the half-block were purchased. In
                    1866 the society gave $400 as a Centenary offering.
            In the winter of 1865—66 special evangelistic meetings resulted in 80
                    accessions to the church. Of these 50 were probationers from the Sunday school
                    and were under 15 or 16 years of age. It was known as Brant's
                    children's revival. As a result of this meeting, four additions were
                    made to the itinerant ministry of the church: Henry Wilson Wright and Albert
                    Fletcher Bridges of the Indiana annual conference; James H. Hollingsworth of the
                    Northwest Indiana and John Wesley Wright of the Southern 
                        Illinois
                     and later of an 
                        Iowa
                     and an 
                        Ohio
                     conference. 
                        Henry W. Wright, who died recently, was a strong preacher, Dr. Bridges
                            said, in an interview in the 
                                Brazil
                             Daily Times in 1922. He enlisted in the federal army when a
                            boy. He accompanied General Sherman in his campaigns, including that
                            from 
                                Atlanta
                             to the sea. His vital forces suffered from exposure of army
                            life and from battles in several of which he participated. He rallied,
                            however, and gave the church several years of hard successful work. He
                            retired in 1881 and became a journalist and later a farmer. His younger
                            brother, John Wesley, who died several years ago, was a pulpit orator of
                            distinguished ability, and was much in demand at church dedications and
                            on other special occasions, a platform lecturer, and an author. He was
                                 stricken with paralysis while
                            pastor of a leading church in 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     . Rev. James H. Hollingsworth rose rapidly
                            as pastor and preacher in his conference, filling important stations,
                            including College Avenue charge in 
                                Greencastle
                            , as a successor to Bishop I. W. Joyce, with the faculty and
                            students of DePauw University principally as parishioners. He resigned
                            the pastorate of this church after two successful years in 1897, to
                            study slum-life in 
                                London
                            , and to devote several years to advocacy of his theories of
                            socialistic reform.
                        Dr. Bridges was the youngest of the four. He was twelve years old when he
                            joined church and sixteen when he was licensed to preach. He was the
                            first of the group to receive license. He retired after seven years in
                            1881 on account of his family's health and established The
                            Register in 
                                Brazil
                            . In 1891 he removed to 
                                Colorado
                             Springs, 
                                Colorado
                            , where he has since resided. For many years he has been
                            special correspondent and feature contributor to daily papers in nearly
                            all the leading news centers of the country, as well as a contributor of
                            literature studies, short stories and poems to various magazines. He
                            began writing at fourteen while in school here, his first sketch ever
                            offered for publication appearing in The Western Christian Advocate, to
                            which paper he has ever since been a contributor. In 1879 he wrote the
                            authentic history of Hendrix chapel, which was published by the trustees
                            with their report in a 32-page pamphlet by a 
                                Philadelphia
                             house. A volume of his poems was published in 1898 with a
                            second edition in 1907. DePauw University gave him the honorary degree
                            of Doctor of Divinity in 1916 and Taylor University the degrees of
                            Doctor of Literature in 1918 and of Doctor of Laws in 1921.
                    
            
            In 1865 
                        Brazil
                     circuit included Harmony, Wesley Chapel and 
                        Salem
                     appointments. In 1868 it advanced to the dignity of a station, or
                    one-appointment church. With the exception of brief terms in association with
                    Harmony under Nelson Green and of Staunton under C. S. Burgner, in
                    1870—72, it has since remained a station.
            The presiding elders who officiated during this decade were John Kiger, a year;
                    James Hill, three years; James H. Noble, a year; John M. Green, four years; and
                    John Walls, a year.
            Revs. C. S. Burgner, Nelson Green, S. P. Colvin, F. M. Pavey, and Thomas Meredith
                    have since been stationed at 
                        Brazil
                     each two years, with the exception of Mr. Meredith who served three
                    years. The presiding elders who have officiated since 1868 were Revs. John N.
                    Hull, a year; Richard Hargrave, a year; Samuel Godfrey, D. D., three years;
                    James W. Green, four years; J. W. T. McMullen, D. D., a year; S. P. Colvin, a
                    year.
            
            These pastors kept the church abreast with the secular growth of the community. 
                        Brazil
                     increased in population to 4,000 from 1,200. Large additions were
                    made to the membership. Under Mr. Pavey a special meeting, begun in December,
                    1875, continued three months, with two hundred conversions and accessions to the
                    church.
            Increase in membership was such that a new and more commodious church edifice was
                    needed. Accordingly, at a quarterly conference, January 29, 1877, a committee
                    with authority to solicit subscriptions for a new building was appointed. The
                    committee consisted of Dillon 
                        Wayne
                     Bridges, Benjamin F. Kruzan, C. E. Wilder, Daniel Smith, Eli
                    Hendrix and Rev. Thomas Meredith. The success of the enterprise was secured at
                    that meeting by a subscription of $3,700, or about a third of the
                    necessary amount.
            The plan of the building was devised by Architect Charles Eppinghouser, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and contract was let to Acklemire and Slocum. The corner stone was
                    laid July 29, six months from the date of the subscription paper. J. W. Green,
                    presiding elder, delivered the sermon on that occasion to a large audience. He
                    was assisted in the conduct of the disciplinary services by Thomas Meredith and
                    F. M. Pavey. The 
                        Brazil
                     Silver Cornet band rendered appropriate sacred music. Dr. Green
                    preached from the text, Acts V, 38—9. His subject was "The
                    Divinity of the Christian Religion." The hour was that of the usual
                    Saturday morning service of a quarterly meeting.
            The building, Hendrix Chapel, was dedicated January 13, 1878, Thomas Bowman, D.
                    D., one of the bishops of the church assisted by presiding elder, J. W. T.
                    McMullen and pastor Thomas Meredith officiating. The sermon was based on Haggai
                    II, 9.
            The building, when freed from a debt of $2,700, was presented to the
                    church at large by D. W. Bridges on behalf of the trustees, for dedication.
            A large audience was present. Among former pastors and presiding elders present
                    were Revs. J. W. Green and F. M. Pavey. Professors John Clark Ridpath and L. L.
                    Rogers of Indiana Asbury, now DePauw University of 
                        Greencastle
                    
                     and Rev. W. W. Hibben, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with citizens of adjoining cities and towns were among those
                    present.
            Hendrix Chapel was of modern Gothic architecture, cruciform in design, a marvel
                    of convenience and a thing of beauty. The seating capacity of the main audience
                    room was 800, including a semi-circle for choir and pulpit, gallery at the west
                    end, under which were a parlor and two small rooms. The basement afforded a
                    lecture room, with two small rooms, with a total capacity of 400. It was
                    constructed on the best principles of acoustics. In fact it was a huge bell, so
                    complete in arrangements that, when the air registers were open, the
                    minister's voice, undisturbed by the slightest echo, could be
                    distinctly heard not only in the gallery and throughout the spacious audience
                    room with the apartments connected with it, but also in all the rooms of the
                    basement below.
            The entire cost of the building, an item of interest in these days, was
                    $12,000. The building alone cost $8,000. The remainder was
                    expended on seats and other furnishings and equipment. The bell was a gift from
                    Eli Hendrix.
            Hendrix Chapel was named in honor of Eli Hendrix, partly because of his
                    munificence in its construction, and partly because of his long and intimate
                    connection with the society. From early manhood he was one of its members. He
                    assisted in building the log house in 1845. He aided materially in building the
                    frame house in 1856—8. For fourteen years in his first term he was
                    superintendent of the Sunday school, in organizing which he was active. For
                    twenty or more years he was an efficient classleader. He was unanimously
                    accorded this honor by his composers. It was fitting that he should have this
                    monument. But Hendrix Chapel was not one man's monument alone. It
                    commemorated all who gave so cheerfully of their means for its construction. It
                    was likewise a monument to the fathers in the ministry and in the laity who laid
                    the foundations on which the society now stands. In dark days, without hope of
                    reward, but with sublime faith in God, they toiled on in the face of unpromising
                    beginning. But the wilderness and the solitary place were glad for them and the
                    desert rejoiced and blossomed as the rose. They have passed away, with perhaps
                    not an exception; but their work remains.
            
            The Sunday school contributed largely to the strength of the church. It was
                    organized in July, 1858, with John N. Wood as superintendent and Eli Hendrix,
                    secretary. Mr. Wood soon resigned and Mr. Hendrix was elected to succeed him.
                    Mr. Hendrix remained superintendent for fourteen consecutive years, or until
                    1872. In 1875 he was re-elected and served a year. B. F. Mason, Thomas Henderson
                    and William Menough and Rev. J. H. Hollingsworth also served the school in this
                    capacity with splendid success. Many members of the church came from the Sunday
                    school ranks. In 1875 the school organized two mission schools, one at the
                    "Y" in east 
                        Brazil
                    , with Mr. Henderson, superintendent, and one at Glenwood, a mile
                    north of 
                        Brazil
                    , with Perry Stunkard, superintendent.
            After several years of service, Hendrix Chapel was torn down to be supplanted by
                    the present brick and stone edifice, in order to accommodate increased
                    membership and Sunday school. It is not my plan to cover this modern period in
                    this history. The historic past, extending from one year after 
                        Clay county
                     was organized in 1825 to 1879, has been recounted, however
                    imperfectly. There was a pre-historic period of which there is no record, when
                    the itinerant preacher, in advance of county and even state
                    organization—the latter in 1816–sought the lost sheep of
                    the house of 
                        Israel
                     in the wilds, where afterward cultivated farms, beautiful homes,
                    cities, towns and villages abounded. Their record, if any was kept, is lost.
            In 1879 it was written by the historian: 
                        Will these altars of the Lord in time become broken and
                            neglected? Will the society always maintain its present
                            vantage ground in the moral warfare, or will it lose it in failure and
                            retreat? When the founders of Hendrix Chapel have passed to
                            their reward, and when the building itself, crumbling with age, shall be
                            superseded by another temple of worship, will its successor be fashioned
                            after a commoner pattern, or will it also be an exponent of prayer, and
                            labor, and sacrifice? These are questions for future
                            worshippers to answer. They are to be congratulated upon the example of
                            those who have gone before. With this worthy and costly trust, let the
                            memories of the authors be cherished, and let their noble example be
                            emulated.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Execution of Private Robert Gay
            Albert Fletcher Bridges, D. D., LL. D.
            To 
                        Clay county
                     belongs the disgrace of staging the first execution in the west for
                    desertion during the Civil war. The county, however, furnished the victim only;
                    the disgrace belongs to the military authorities who executed him.
            Private Robert Gay, of Company D, Seventy First Indiana regiment, was shot to
                    death at Burnside barracks, Camp Morton, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , March 27, 1863. He was charged with desertion and with being a
                    spy. The latter charge was never proven, nor was any attempt made to prove it.
                    Incriminating evidence of desertion was found in an oath of allegiance to the
                    Southern Confederacy which he had concealed by sewing in the bottom fold of his
                    trousers. He acknowledged the genuineness of his signature, after discovery, and
                    confessed to desertion in his farewell speech at execution. He added, however,
                    in his brief address, that he did not realize the heinous nature of his crime at
                    its commission.
            But for this self-contributed evidence, he would never have been executed.
            Desertion is commonly and universally punishable by death. Examples of such
                    punishment were deemed necessary at this emergency in the Civil war. No error
                    was committed in the order, or in its execution. It was regarded at the time as
                    an act of loyalty to uphold and even praise the military for his execution.
            Gay's execution, however, was unnecessary, and blame attaches to all
                    concerned in it, especially to those most directly responsible. "There
                    are those who thirst for my blood; but I forgive them too." These were
                    among his last words.
            Some conclusions are derivable from the facts in the case:
            
               1. The government did not keep faith with Gay in the terms of his
                        enlistment.
               2. Capt. D. A. Conover, who was mainly responsible for the execution,
                        sought promotion for the performance of extraordinary service growing out of
                        the execution.
               
               3. Gay was selected as an example because he had no family, and no
                        influential relatives or friends, who might appeal to President Lincoln for
                        pardon.
               4. The execution was hurried through five days after the order was given,
                        and every precaution was taken to keep all information of the coming event
                        from President Lincoln, who, because of his leniency, and because of an
                        order of amnesty granted to all deserters at about that time, would
                        undoubtedly have pardoned Gay.
            
            The Seventy First regiment was organized at Camp Dick Thompson at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in July, 1862. Melville D. Topping was made Lieutenant Colonel,
                    succeeded soon after by James Biddle; William Conklin, major; with William W.
                    Carter as his immediate successor; Daniel A. Conover, captain Co. D; E. A.
                    Thompson, 1st lieutenant; Thomas Cullen, 2nd lieutenant; Thomas M. Robertson,
                    orderly sergeant, afterward captain. The regiment was mustered into the service
                    of the government, August 18, 1862.
            Gay enlisted as a private in Co. D in August of that year. He was then teaching
                    school at Bellaire, a small village two miles south of Bowling Green, the county
                    seat of 
                        Clay county
                    . He was in poor health and unfit for military duty. He had studied
                    medicine and wanted to be a doctor. He enlisted on conditon that he should be
                    appointed a steward in the Hospital. This was never done. Captain T. M.
                    Robertson wrote me in 1907: 
                        He (Gay) was physically unfit for the rough life of a soldier. He had
                            done but little, if any, manual labor for a long time, and his muscles
                            were soft and flabby, and he was short-winded. In a march over the hills
                            and down the ravines of 
                                Kentucky
                            , he became nearly exhausted, and I carried his gun for a
                            while to relieve him of a part of his burden, for his knapsack and gun
                            were too heavy for him. After a little rest, he went into the battle of 
                                Richmond
                            , Ky., with us, and was taken prisoner. Our regiment was
                            paroled and allowed to return home, but Gay remained in 
                                Richmond
                            , and was a helper in the hospitals, waiting on the sick and
                            wounded.
                    
            
            Gay was sick from exhaustion, or wounds, and owed his life to treatments received
                    in the hospital from the Confederacy. In order to secure treatment, medical if
                    not surgical, he took the oath of allegiance to the Confederacy. This oath
                    secured permission to return to his home, in 
                        Ohio
                    . He did not  accompany his
                    regiment on their return home, but went a few days later in order to visit his
                    mother in Gallia county 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Captain Conover was promoted to major shortly after Jay's execution,
                    presumably for gallant and meritorious conduct in bringing an arch-traitor and
                    spy to justice, and thus affording a much needed example to all other deserters
                    and spies. Promotion came to others for this same reason. Captain Robertson
                    continues: 
                        There was some talk at the time that an example was needed to deter
                            soldiers from deserting, and that Gay, having no family and no relatives
                            in the country, was a fit subject for such an example.
                    
            
            There were other deserters whose crimes were as heinous as Gay's, but
                    they had families, or relatives, or friends, who would have appealed to
                    President Lincoln, and he would have pardoned them. In order to succeed with
                    their promotion scheme, a friendless lad was selected and his execution hurried
                    through lest the president should hear of it and interfere. 
                        I hardly think his death was necessary; but, technically, in accordance
                            with military law, it may be justified, especially as he admitted his
                            guilt in the brief remarks he made just before his execution.
                    
            
            Captain Robertson thus wrote in the letter already quoted.
            Gay sought to escape from the rough life of a soldier to which he was doomed. He
                    was in poor health, and was a patient in the hospital where he helped. In order
                    to secure medical treatment at the hands of the enemy, and to secure permission
                    to return home, he took the oath of allegiance to their cause.
            In all southern prisons, federal soldiers, despairing of recovery, and with
                    apparently no chance of exchange, took the oath of allegiance to the
                    confederacy, as it meant home and life to them. Hundreds of such cases occurred.
                    Perhaps not one of these, besides Gay, was ever prosecuted for desertion. It was
                    understood why they deserted. They returned to their homes; and, being unfit for
                    military duty, they lived peacably the civil life. Gay's case was
                    identically the same.
            An order granting amnesty to all deserters who would return by April 30 was
                    issued by the war department at 
                        Washington
                    
                     at about the time of Gay's
                    execution. This shows the ruling military sentiment then-a sentiment that offset
                    the supposed demand that an example was needed to deter soldiers from deserting.
                    Gay's pardon would have been generally approved by the military, as
                    well as by citizens.
            Gay was a native of Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , and was twenty-seven years old. His father was an Irish nobleman,
                    who, for political reasons, was an exile in this country. He died at the
                    beginning of the war, or a year sooner. His widowed mother was delicate; and, at
                    the time of his execution, an invalid. She was living in Gallia county, 
                        Ohio
                    , then and for a short time afterward. In order to visit her, he did
                    not return with his regiment when it was parolled, but went to 
                        Ohio
                     at Camp Chase later.
            Charles Matthews, writing from 
                        Ohio
                     some time ago, says he knew Gay during his residence in his home
                    state before the war. He says Gay learned the tanner's trade under his
                    father at Vinton, in Gallia county, in 1856.
            He is described by those who knew him best as a fine-looking man, nearly if not
                    quite six feet high, of slender build, dark complected, with dark hair and blue
                    eyes, with strong, well-marked features and a magnificient head. His clear, open
                    countenance, as revealed in a portrait which I possess, shows inability to do
                    any dishonorable act, much less the crime with which he is charged, where the
                    magnitude of the crime was apparent to him. A contemporary account says: 
                        He elicited much sympathy, partly the effect of intelligence, of his
                            persistent denial of a guilty purpose and of a general lack of
                            understanding of the heinousness of the offense. He had been a school
                            teacher and was certainly a man of good intelligence and more than
                            average acquirements. He might have been taken for a military preacher
                            in addressing his comrades as he made his last, or farewell,
                        address.
                    
            
            Captain Robertson, who knew him intimately for three years, said: 
                        He was clean of speech, sober, never indulging in strong drink, grave and
                            intelligent in appearance; he was never robust, but of a delicate
                            constitution that wholly unfitted him for a rough soldier life.
                    
            
            It is charged that on or about September 5, 1862, Gay called on the Confederate
                    provo marshal at 
                  Richmond,
                            Kentucky
               ,  and asked if he could join the rebel army,
                    or take the oath of allegiance to the Confederacy. He said that he was a
                    Southern man in principle and did not want to fight in the Union army. Two
                    federal surgeons, who were detained to treat wounded Union soldiers, and who
                    knew Gay, were present and heard him make these statements. The rebel officer
                    warned him of the danger of such an act, but he insisted on taking the oath.
                    After taking the oath, he said he wanted to join the rebel army, and was given a
                    pass. He soon afterward went to Camp Chase, 
                        Ohio
                    ; thence in a few days to Bowling Green, Indiana. He then reported
                    to Captain Con-over at Camp Dick Thompson at 
                        Terre Haute
                     and got a sick furlough for fifteen or twenty days.
            If Gay planned to desert, and especially if he knew the danger of such a step, he
                    would not have openly done so in the presence of two federal officers whose
                    testimony could have brought swift punishment to him. According to Captain
                    Robertson, Gay's confession, not the testimony of these officers, or
                    any one else, proved his guilt. The names of these officers do not anywhere
                    appear in the prosecution.
            Major W. W. Carter, writing in 1888, gave an account of Gay at this stage which
                    is thus summarized: His furlough expired the latter part of October, 1862. About
                    this time, Provo Marshal E. A. Thompson got a letter from 
                        Cincinnati
                     narrating the circumstances that occurred in the Confederate office
                    at 
                  Richmond, Kentucky
               , as above narrated,
                    and asking if there was a Robert Gay who was a member of Co. D., Seventy-First
                    Regiment, Indiana volunteers. Colonel Thompson called me to his office and
                    showed me the letter. I don't recall the name signed to the letter, but
                    it was that of one of the surgeons who heard Gay make the statements and take
                    the oath. He saw and recognized him at Camp Chase.
            Gay was then at Bowling Green, Indiana. Colonel Thompson gave me an order to
                    arrest him and bring him to Camp Dick Thompson. I detailed Phil Elkin and N. M.
                    Cromwell to go with me to Bowling Green. We found him in the store of Oliver H.
                    P. Ash. I called him to one side and placed him under arrest, not telling him
                    until later that he was arrested for desertion. We took him to Andrew
                    Neimire's tailor shop.
            
            He requested me to let him accompany the guards to James Kendall's where
                    he had made his home to get some clothing and papers. I refused; but told him to
                    write an order and we would bring them to him. He was guarded that night in the
                    shop by two Co. D boys. Some time in the night he was observed sewing buttons on
                    his clothes and pretending to mend his pants. He was seen to sew a paper in the
                    hem of a pants leg. We said nothing to him about it, but kept watch that he did
                    not take it out.
            I reported with Gay to Colonel Thompson, who ordered me to take him to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Gen. H. B. Carrington. I telegraphed ahead and turned him over
                    to the general after dark. We left him with a guard in the outer office. In the
                    private office, I told about the paper. Gay denied having any. He was told to
                    put his foot upon a chair. The general took his knife and ripped the stitches.
                    The paper that he found read substantially: 
                        "I, Robert Gay, do solemnly swear that I will bear true faith
                            and allegiance to the Confederate states of America, and that I will to
                            the best of my ability support its constitution and laws, so help me
                            God. Signed, Robert Gay.
                        Subscribed and sworn to before me, Post Commandant, at 
                                Richmond
                            , Ky., Signed Post Commandant."
                    
            
            Major Carter failed to remember the date or the post commandant's name.
            Gay was taken to the general guard house in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he was kept till his trial by court martial. After the trial
                    and sentence, he was removed to the 
                        Marion county
                     jail, where he was kept till executed.
            The official orders and documents in the case were as follows: 
                        GENERAL ORDER No. 23.
                        Headquarters Dept. of the 
                        Ohio, Cincinnati
                     , March 21, 1863.
                        At the general court martial which convened at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., on the 27th day of Dec., `62, pursuant to Special
                            Order N. 147, of Dec. 5, 1862, from headquarters, and of which Brevet
                            Brig.-Gen. Henry 
                                Van
                             Rennselear, Inspector General 
                                United States
                             army, is president, was arraigned and tried Private Robert
                            Gay of Co. D, Seventy-first regiment, Indiana volunteers.
                        
                        Specification In this: That Private Robert Gay, Co. D (Capt. Daniel A.
                            Conover), Seventy-first regiment, Indiana volunteers, duly enlisted and
                            mustered into the service of the 
                                United States
                            , did on or about the 5th day of September, 1862, desert his
                            company, his regiment and the service of the 
                                United States
                            , and did take the oath of allegiance to serve the enemy,
                            to-wit: the confederate states, so called, and to serve them faithfully
                            against all their enemies and opposers whomsoever. All this at or near 
                                Richmond
                            , Ky., on the 5th day of September, 1862. To which charge
                            and specifications the prisoner pleaded guilty.
                        The court finds the prisoner guilty as charged, and does therefore
                            sentence him, Private Robert Gay, Co. D, Seventy-first regiment, Indiana
                            volunteers, to be shot to death at such time and place as shall be fixed
                            by the major general commanding department of 
                                Ohio
                            , two thirds of the members of the court concurring therein.
                            This case, which was referred for action of the president of the 
                                United States
                             having been returned for final action under act of congress
                            passed at its recent session, authorizing the punishment awarded to
                            those found guilty of being spies, or deserters, etc., to be carried
                            into effect upon the approval of the commanding general in the field,
                            the finding and sentence are approved, and the sentence that Private
                            Robert Gay of Co. D, Seventy-first regiment, Indiana volunteers, be shot
                            to death, will be carried into execution on Friday, the 27th day of
                            March, instant, under the directions of the officer in command of the
                            post at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind.
                        By command of Maj. Gen. Wright.
                        Headquarters District of Indiana, March 27th, 1863.
                        This order will be executed at 3 o'clock this day.
                        Henry B. Carrincton, General
                            Commanding.
                        Headquarters 71st Regiment, Ind. volunteers, Burnside Barracks, March 27,
                            1863.
                        The above order was duly executed at this camp, at 3 o'clock p.
                            m., this day by shooting to death the above named Robert Gay.
                        James Biddle, Col.
                            71st Regt., Ind. Vols.
                    
            
            Gay was taken from jail at 2:30 o'clock and conveyed in a closed
                    carriage to the ground. On the way out he retained his composure completely,
                    conversed freely about his conduct and life, and seemed quite cheerful,
                    according to the account of an eye witness.
            This composure he retained throughout, and it formed a striking feature of the
                    terrible scene.
            When taken out of the carriage he walked to the place of execution. As he stood
                    before the file of men who were to kill him, he showed no signs of trepidation.
                    Indeed, so perfectly  steady were his
                    attitude and step, and so unruffled his features that several spectators did not
                    know he was the doomed man until the sergeant major began tying his hands. His
                    dying speech was uttered without any tremulousness of tone, and without any of
                    that incoherence which the most intelligent men often exhibit under such
                    circumstances. His voice was clear and distinct, the words unusually
                    well-chosen, and his sentences well-constructed. His ideas never became
                    confused. If it was not wonderful self-control, it was insensibility to death,
                    equally wonderful in such a man. So perfect was his selfmastery, or
                    indifference, that it was not till he sat down on his coffin that we could
                    realize that was about to die. His calmness seemed to dissipate the sense of
                    peril entirely, and it required an effort, after looking at his steady eye,
                    pale, unmoved face, and unchanged attitude, to bring back the appalling fact
                    which the loaded guns and solemn crowd so forcibly declared, that death was in
                    the very act of snatching the man from earth. Even when he sat down on his
                    coffin, and the sergeant major was blindfolding him, he calmly drew his knees up
                    so as to set his feet against the side of his coffin and steadied himself on his
                    terrible seat, as if he was fixing himself to have his picture taken. He heard
                    the clicking of the gun-cocks of the firing party preparatory to their fearful
                    duty; but even then, though not a second lay between him and eternity, his
                    audible prayer was uttered without a groan, or tremor, in voice or limb. The
                    history of the world can not show a more remarkable case of self-control and
                    composure.
            Preparations for the execution were admirably made, both by Gen. Carrington and
                    Col. Biddle. To the latter was entrusted the duty of performing the execution.
                    The former made all the preceding arrangements. In order to avoid the presence
                    of a large crowd of spectators, who would at the last press upon and disturb the
                    soldiers, and to avoid the possibility of an attempt at rescue, of which a good
                    many confident hints had been thrown out the day before by the Knights of the
                    Golden Circle, the general gave out as a secret, which he knew would be revealed
                    quite as extensively as if it had been published in the papers, that the
                    execution would take place at 5 o'clock, p. m. And to deceive those who
                    might watch his  movements he kept a squad
                    of cavalry at his headquarters and his horse ready saddled, as about to start,
                    during the afternoon until after the execution. When the time arrived for the
                    execution, he quietly sent an escort for the prisoner, on a back street, and did
                    not go to the execution himself.
            Every movement was executed according to arrangements and passed off quietly.
                    Col. Biddle, of the Seventy First, deserves high praise for his judicious
                    management.
            The place of execution was the open field lying between Burnside Barracks and
                    Camp Morton. Here the Seventy-First was drawn up in a hollow square, with the
                    open side to the east. Into this square a number of gentlemen whom Col. Biddle
                    had invited were admitted. They had a full view of the whole scene.
            The Sixty-Third regiment then came up with drums beating and marched past the
                    carriage containing the prisoner, who leaned his head partly out of the window
                    to watch them as they formed on the south side of the square. The cavalry were
                    placed on the outside of the Sixty-Third, and the artillery on the west and
                    north sides. Thus a compact mass of soldiers of all arms was formed, leaving a
                    little vacant square in the middle, with the fearfully suggestive opening at the
                    east side. The coffin of plain black walnut, with a flat lid, was brought out
                    and laid in the open end of the square some distance up toward the center. An
                    officer stepped off slowly a space of twenty-five or thirty feet from the coffin
                    to fix the line to be occupied by the firing party, of twenty soldiers, two from
                    each company, who now marched in and formed on two ranks on this line. The
                    spectators inside this square moved over to the left of the line. The soldiers,
                    impassive as statues, changed not a feature or a muscle, but all seemed to be
                    impressed with the solemn duty in hand. Four men walked in at the open space,
                    and stood in front of the coffin. The one on the right carried a small cord and
                    a band of black cloth. This was the sergeant major of the regiment, whose duty
                    it was to bind and blindfold the prisoner, next to him was the prisoner, so
                    unmoved and calm that everybody was asking, "Which is the
                    prisoner?" Next to the prisoner stood the chaplain of the
                    regiment, Mr. Griffith. On the left was a friend of the prisoner.  Thus stood the man who was to die, and the men who
                    were to kill him.
            The firing party did not know whose gun contained a bullet. Ten guns were loaded
                    with bullets and ten with blank cartridges; then they were mixed up in a
                    confused heap and nanded out. The men who loaded the guns could not tell the
                    loaded and unloaded apart. Thus each man was furnished with a reasonable
                    probability that he had no part in the bloodshed.
            Adjt. 
                        Brown
                    , of the Seventy-First regiment, then stepped forward and in a clear
                    and distinct voice read the order of execution. The reading occupied about two
                    minutes.
            Col. Biddle then stepped from the right of the firing party and said:
            "Gay, if you have anything to say, you can say it now."
            The prisoner, without changing his attitude, with his soldier cap in his hand,
                    and held just as he had pulled it off when the reading of the order began, with
                    his plain uniform coat buttoned over his breast, and his well-worn blue
                    pantaloons tucked inside his boots, without a quiver in his voice, or a twitch
                    of a muscle of the face, said:
            "Fellow soldiers, I am about to die for the crime of desertion. I have
                    done wrong. I know I have done wrong; but I did it unthoughtedly. I can call God
                    to witness, before whom I must appear in a few minutes, that I did not mean to
                    commit a crime, if ever a man tells the truth it is when he is about to die; and
                    I tell the truth when I say that I meant no wrong. When I took the oath of
                    allegiance, I intended only to get home, so that I might stay; for I did not
                    feel able for service. My health was bad. It has always been poor. I am in
                    better health today than I have ever been in my life. I meant to stay at home
                    and not join the enemy. I never intended to desert my country. But what I did
                    was wrong, and I confess it. I never realized the fate that awaited me till my
                    sentence was read to me. Then I felt that I must die. I cannot tell you how I
                    have striven with the spirit since that sentence was read to me. I feel that I
                    am about to die a sinner. Take warning from me and prepare for death while there
                    is yet time. Later to obtain that religion that is more precious than anything
                    else on earth. Try to reconcile yourselves to God and live as your duty
                    requires. I suppose my death is needed as an example. If it will serve my
                    country and warn you, I will die cheerfully. I forgive all my enemies and every
                    body on earth. I have no malice against any living being. I forgive those who
                    are to fire at me. There are some who thirst for my blood,  but I forgive them too. To you who will fire at me,
                    I would say, take your aim well. Fire at the breast; (laying his hand on his
                    heart) that is the place. Hold on the spot firmly. I want to die quickly.
                    Don't let me suffer. Again, I will say, I forgive everybody, and ask
                    them to forgive me."
            Mr. Griffith at the close of his remarks, prayed fervently and with far deeper
                    feeling than the man he prayed for showed-all his strength was required
                    evidently to bear his fearful ordeal. At the close of the prayer, Mr. Griffith
                    and the other gentleman shook hands with him and bade him farewell.
            The sergeant major then stepped up and tied his hands, which he voluntarily
                    placed behind him. He stood silent for a moment and then said: 
                        "If I could only be spared, I would enter the service of my
                            country and do my duty as well as any one in my regiment, or as well as
                            I am able."
                    
            
            By this time his hands were tied and he glanced round at the ranks and up at the
                    sun, as if to take a last look at earthly things. The sergeant major then led
                    him to his coffin and seated him on it, with his face to the firing party and
                    his back to the east. He sat a second, drew his feet towards him, and settled
                    himself back on the coffin as if to brace himself against the terrible shock
                    that was to come so soon. The sergeant major then tied the black cloth over his
                    eyes, and stepped rapidly off to the right and front, out of the range of the
                    guns. The prisoner, being left alone for the first time, said:
            "Oh, that I could see my death!"
            These words were uttered in a tone of deep sadness, which those who heard will
                    never forget.
            A whisper from Lieut. Sherfey to the firing party brought all the guns to
                    readiness. The clicking of the guns was heard distinctly all around. The
                    prisoner heard it, too, but he only showed his consciousness of it by a movement
                    of his lips in prayer. The prayer became audible, but not intelligible as the
                    guns were lowered to take aim. Then the awful crash of the guns came.
            
            At the explosion he fell straight back over his coffin without a sound or
                    struggle. His feet, which rested on the coffin, were motionless. He had obtained
                    his wish. His comrades had done their duty well.
            The surgeon ran to him.
            "Is he dead?" asked Col. Biddle.
            "He is dying; he will be dead in a few moments," said the
                    surgeon.
            He gasped spasmodically for a few seconds and was dead.
            He was lifted into his coffin, his bandage taken off his eyes, his hands untied
                    and his little blue cap put on his head.
            There were eight shot holdes in his coat, seven of them in his breast, anyone of
                    which would have killed him. One bullet struck him in the heart.
            There was not a drop of blood visible. The bullet holes were clean cut. Under the
                    body was a puddle of blood on the ground, for the balls had gone through him,
                    and the blood ran out below. One bullet hit him in the throat, and another
                    grazed his shoulder. All of the ten balls struck him.
            The sergeant of the firing party, with his carbine in reserve, stood by the body,
                    ready to shoot him in the head, if it had been necessary to end his misery; but
                    to his relief, the fatal work had been well done. The coffin was put into the
                    undertaker's wagon, the troops were dismissed, and the most impressive
                    and dreadful scene ever witnessed in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the first and only military execution in the West, was over.
            In a letter written next day in Burnside barracks to my father, Dillon 
                        Wayne
                     Bridges, Jr., by Captain Robertson, he said: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        It was the first execution I ever witnessed, and I earnestly hope
                                    it may be the last. It always awakened a feeling of sympathy in
                                    me to see a dumb animal thus summarily and terribly put to
                                    death; and my feelings yesterday, as Gay stood so near the line
                                    that divides time from eternity, in better health than I ever
                                    knew him to enjoy during my acquaintance of three years with
                                    him, were altogether beyond my powers of description.
                        Gay asked the privilege of being shot without having his hands
                                    tied behind him; also that he might stand up. These requests
                                    were denied. It fell upon Lieutenant Sherfey to command the
                                    firing squad, and upon John H. Doyl and William Slack to belong
                                    to the squad.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            Desertion, not of prisoners in order to secure life, as in the case of Gay, but
                    of parties who had grown tired of military service, or who were influenced by
                    Copperheads, or Knights of the Golden Circle, were common. In Indiana alone two
                    thousand desertions occurred in December, 1862. Not one of these deserters was
                    ever executed for his crime, which was without excuse and more heinous than
                    Gay's.
            Gay was at fault. He could have been parolled with his regiment and could have
                    gone home. He wanted to escape from military life, for which he was not fitted
                    constitutionally; but he took a wrong method of escape.
            His mistake, however, did not justify the military in selecting him, as one of
                    thousands more guilty than he was, just because he had no family dependent on
                    him, or relatives, or friends to appeal to President Lincoln for pardon. He
                    should have been selected for execution, if at all, because the magnitude of his
                    crime differed from that of other deserters. It did not, unless it was less
                    criminal, because it resulted from an effort to secure life, where thousands of
                    other desertions even in Indiana were wanton, and wholly without excuse.
            His execution, therefore, was a guaranty of immunity to deserters who had
                    families because of these ties.
         
         
         
            The Cary Sisters In 
                        Oxford
                    
            
            JESSE S. BIRCH
            Few in Indiana who read the poems by the Cary sisters, Alice and Phoebe, know
                    that these gifted writers made their home in 
                        Oxford
                     for a time. This residence is not mentioned by historians or
                    biographers, yet such omission does not change the facts. The comparatively
                    brief stay of the two in 
                        Oxford
                    , and the fact that they were not identified with the settlement or
                    development of the county, gives little for the local historian to say about
                    them save a few scattered references to their home life and the poems they are
                    credited with writing while here. The townspeople recognized the ability of the
                    sisters and were proud that they had cast their lot in the town, and when the
                    two left, the sordid affairs of life in a new country continued uppermost in
                    their minds, but they did not forget the Cary sisters. It is known by all the
                    descendants of the pioneers that the Cary sisters once lived in 
                        Oxford
                    . With no little pride the new-comer is told this and the place
                    where they lived pointed out to them.
            At the time of which I write, 1849 to 1850 and part of 1851 and 1852, the years
                    the Cary sisters were in 
                        Oxford
                    , live stock was purchased over a given territory and then driven to
                    the city mrkets. Alexander Swift, who had married Susan Cary, an elder sister of
                    Alice and Phoebe, was located in 
                        Oxford
                     several years as the representative of a 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , packing firm as purchasing agent. James Jolly
                    Keys, then a discerning young man, drove the stock so purchased to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He was in the Swift home much of the time and his statements about
                    their comings and goings, which he gave me, are unquestionably correct. My own
                    mother, then a young girl, saw them frequently in the socials and gatherings the
                    little village of 
                        Oxford
                     then afforded. I am fortressed in my statement that the sisters
                    made their home in 
                        Oxford
                     for a time by the testimony of at least a dozen of the early
                    residents of the town, one of whom is still living. It is true the sisters went
                    to 
                        New York
                     in 1851 or 1852, but so long 
                    as the Swifts lived in 
                        Oxford
                    , it was their home—their haven while awaiting
                    recognition in the literary world and financial success in 
                        New York
                    .
            The mother had died and a step-mother who was narrow and uncultured and saw only
                    the work side of life for herself and all within the household, and who did not
                    believe in wasting candles to read books or write poetry when floors needed to
                    be scrubbed or socks mended, entered the home and made life so miserable to the
                    spirited and ambitious young women that they left the old home of Clovernook,
                    near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and came to that of their sister, Mrs. Swift, in 
                        Oxford
                    .
            The house in which the Swifts lived is still standing east of St.
                    Patrick's church, but it has been remodeled and bears no resemblance
                    whatever to what it was at that time, a low one-story structure. The desk on
                    which the sisters wrote was a homemade one and consisted of a plain poplar board
                    fastened to the wall and supported by a couple of rought strips. Mrs. Anna
                    Benedict, a resident of 
                        Oxford
                     and vicinity for more than sixty years, says that several years
                    after the Swifts left 
                        Oxford
                    , she saw the desk described by Mr. Keys at its old position by the
                    window that looked to the south. Jonathan Broadwell and family, who came from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and occupied the house in which the Swifts lived, and were friends
                    of the Carys and Swifts, told Mrs. Benedict that the desk was the one on which
                    Alice and Phoebe Cary did their writing.
            Mrs. Elizabeth (Jessup) Cary, mother of Alice and Phoebe, was a cousin of Alfred
                    J. Carnahan, 
                        Oxford
                    's first general merchant, who came to the town in 1854.
                    The sisters gave him an autograph copy of their poems. This book is now in
                    possession of Mr. Carnahan's son, Joseph, who lives near Attica,
                    Indiana. There are a few distant cousins of the Cary sisters still living in 
                        Oxford
                    .
            Alice and Phoebe Cary were sociable, plain and unassuming, in fact domestic in
                    their tastes. Their genius made them no different from the other women of the
                    village, nor did they attempt to impress others with an air of superiority. Both
                    were especially fond of children. We are told they were of a dark complexion and
                    uncommonly handsome.
            
            Phoebe, the younger of the two, was strong and healthy in youth and saw life
                    through a more cheerful atmosphere than did Alice. She had several offers of
                    marriage, but did not accept rather than be separated from Alice. Once she said
                    to Alice that she "never loved any man well enough to lie awake half an
                    hour to be miserable about him." She was poetic but not romantic. She
                    looked upon the humorous side of life. This is shown in her parodies on the
                    "Psalms of Life" and "Maude Mueller." Each
                    is a jest on the matrimonial tie, yet, judging from her poems, a subject on her
                    mind. She was of an inquisitive nature and this got her into trouble one day.
                    She and the Justus sisters, who with Alice, were together much of the time, were
                    watching the men on the Justus farm setting fence posts. Before setting a post
                    in the ground the end so placed was dipped in a barrel of tar. She asked what
                    the black stuff in the barrel was and one of the Justus sisters told her to look
                    in and see. She did so and in the act her foot slipped and her head struck the
                    side of the barrel and a quantity of the tar stuck in her hair. She was unable
                    to get it out and it was necessary to have the hair shorn.1
            
            Alice was a tireless worker, spurred on no doubt by the wish to forget the past,
                    while Phoebe was inclined to take life easy. Both had ways not altogether
                    satisfactory to the other, yet so close was the tie that bound them together
                    there was no complaint or word of censure.
            Many of their poems on rural life and nature were written while living in 
                        Oxford
                    , or the impressions were so deep that they were incorporated in
                    them at a later time; especially is this true in "The West
                    Country", by Alice, and "Field Preaching",
                    "The Lamp on the 
                        Prairie
                    ", "The Maize", and "The 
                        Prairie
                     Fire", by Phoebe.
            School facilities were limited and Alice and Phoebe Cary found most of their
                    education in the woods and fields. The habits of their girlhood were unchanged
                    in 
                        Oxford
                     and day after day through the long summer afternoons, the two
                    roamed the untilled fields east of the Swift home, and at eventide returned
                        
                  
                     1For this incident I am indebted to a sister of
                            the one who told Phoebe to take a lood in the barrel.
               
                     laden with huge bouquets of wild flowers.
                    These rambles inspired Phoebe to say: 
                        I have been out today in field and wood, Listening to praises
                            sweet and counsels good
                        Such as a little child had understood, That in its tender
                        youth, Discerns the simple elements of truth.
                        The modest blossoms, crowding round my way, Though they had
                            nothing great or grand to say
                        Gave out their fragrance to the wind that day;
                        Because His loving breath, With soft persistence, won them back
                            from death.
                        When wearied, on the meadow grass I sank;
                        So narrow was the rill from which I drank, An infant might have
                            jumped from bank to bank;
                        And the tall rushes near
                        Lapping together, hid its water clear.
                        The stately maize, a fair and godly sight
                        With seried spear points bristling sharp and bright, Shook out his
                            yellow tassels, for delight, To all their tawny length,
                            Like Samson, glorying in his lusty strength.
                    
            
            The narrow rill from which she drank and one "an infant might have
                    jumped from bank to bank", had reference to Justus branch, the little
                    brook that still winds its way like a thread of silver along the south edge of 
                        Oxford
                    .
            The broad fields of corn and the Basil Justus cabin in the forest of oaks, a
                    skeleton of which is still standing, a quarter of a mile south of the window by
                    which she wrote, are touched by her magic pen in "The Maize:"
                        
                        Afar in the forest the rude cabins rise, And send up their pillows
                            of smoke, And the tops of these columns are lost in the
                        skies, O'er the heads of the cloud-kissing oak.
                        Near the skirt of the forest where the sturdy arms swing
                        The ax till the giant sways, And echo repeats every blow as it
                            rings, Shoot the green and glorious maize.
                    
            
            
            Among the "cloud-kissing oaks" was the historic oak under
                    which, July 28, 1840, the commissioners met and organized 
                        Benton county
                    . Here also during propitious weather, the sessions of the early 
                        Benton
                     circuit court were held.
            While living in 
                        Oxford
                    , on the authority of the late Isaac W. Lewis, who came to the
                    county in 1832, and settled two miles south of the present site of 
                        Oxford
                    , Phoebe penned "Nearer Home", one of the sweetest
                    and most sublime hymns ever sung: 
                        One sweetly solemn thought
                        Comes to me o'er and o'er;
                        I'm nearer home today
                        Than I have ever been before.
                        Nearer my father's house, Where the many mansions be;
                        Nearer the great white throne, Nearer the crystal sea.
                        Nearer the bound of life, Where we lay our burdens down;
                        Nearer leaving the cross, Nearer gaining the crown.
                        But the waves of that silent sea
                        Roll dark before my sight, That brightly the other side
                        Break on a shore of light.
                        0, if my mortal feet
                        Have almost reached the brink, If it be I am nearer home
                        Even today than I think.
                        Father perfect my trust;
                        Let my spirit feel in death
                        That her feet are firmly set
                        On the rock of a living faith.
                    
            
            At the funeral of Alice in 
                        New York
                    , in April, 1870, this widely known hymn was sung by the choir after
                    the Episcopal funeral service had been read. At the funeral of Phoebe, in August
                    of the year following, the pastor, a Scotch Universalist  in charge of the service, read it. The two sisters,
                    with their younger sister, Elmina, who also married Alexander Swift, lie side by
                    side in Greenwood cemetery, 
                        New York
                    , far from home and kindred.
            Alice met with a disappointment in love and this gave a sadness to many of her
                    poems. She and a man of culture and wealth had plighted their troth, but his
                    people objected to him marrying a girl, who, to them, was uneducated, rustic and
                    poor. She waited for him until she read of his marriage to another. He then
                    passed out of her life—save remembrance—and she outlived
                    the disappointment of her youth. She afterwards had several offers of marriage,
                    but she accepted none of them. Years afterwards, when life was behind them and
                    his wife had died and Alice was dying, the recreant lover came to beg her
                    forgiveness. Like Lucile: 
                        She looked down on him from the whole
                        Long length of a life. There were sad nights and days,
                        There were long months and years in that heartrendering gaze,
                    
            
            and—woman like—she forgave. This experience saddened, but
                    did not embitter her life, for nowhere in all her poems is a single bitter
                    reference to man's faithlessness. That she had not forgotten is shown
                    in the poems "The Pitiless Fate", and "All in
                    All".
            After her death John G. Whittier, whom she and Phoebe visited at the beginning of
                    their literary career in 
                        New York
                    , wrote: 
                        Timid and young, the elder had
                        Even then a smile too severely sad;
                        The crown of pain that all must wear
                        Too early pressed her midnight hair.
                        Her life was earnest work, not play;
                        Her tired feet climbed a weary way;
                        And even through her lightest strain
                        We heard an undertone of pain.
                    
            
            Alice's most noted poem, "Pictures of Memory", was
                    either written in 
                        Oxford
                     or an incident here prompted it. While in 
                    
                        Oxford
                     the Swifts lost a child. The nurse, with the boy, was out riding
                    one day and when about a mile east of town the horse became frightened and
                    reared. She jumped to the ground, and in order to protect herself, let the child
                    fall. He died a short time after this and it was believed by those who knew of
                    the circumstances that the fall caused his death.2 The loss
                    of the nephew added to the loss of the mother and two sisters while living at
                    the old home at Clovernook, deepened her sadness.
            The Swift home stood across the road from the McConnell cemetery and surrounding
                    the cemetery was a heavy forest of oaks. The mounds, the gray headstones and
                    "the gnarled oaks olden" brought up sad memories. The boy was
                    taken to 
                        Ohio
                     for burial and might have been laid in "the lap of that
                    dim old forest" that resembled the one in 
                        Oxford
                    , or it might have been poetic fancy. She never lost a little
                    brother consequently the reference was to the little nephew, the kinship of a
                    brother meaning more in the poem than a nephew. Edgar Allen Poe once pronounced
                    this poem "one of the most musically perfect lyrics in the English
                    language."
            
               
                  2For this incident I am indebted to the man who
                        witnessed it.
            
         
         
         
            Early 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            Perret Dufour
            
            (Continued)
            The associate judges who were by the laws in force in Indiana territory
                    authorized to transact the county business, such as causing roads and highways
                    to be laid out, opened and kept in repair, and also the appointment of overseers
                    of the roads, and assigning the hands to each supervisor, the appointment of all
                    township officers except justices of the peace were also authorized to transact
                    business pertaining to decedents’ estates granting licenses for
                    keeping taverns, and establishing rates to be charged by tavern keepers, had a
                    great deal of business pertaining to opening highways to attend to for the first
                    year or two.
            To entitle a person to obtain a license to keep tavern he was compelled by the
                    law to have the petition of a certain number of persons praying the court to
                    grant the license, and also to prove to the satisfaction of the court that he
                    was a person of good moral character, and that he had a certain number of extra
                    beds and extra stable room for keeping horses. If the person applying for such
                    tavern license proved to the satisfaction of the court that he had the
                    character, extra beds and table room required by the law, license was granted
                    him, and he was required to enter into bond with security to keep his said
                    tavern as required by law.
            Philo Averil was the first person to obtain license to keep a tavern in 
                        Vevay
                    . He obtained license on the 24th of November, 1814, and on the 25th
                    of November, 1814, the court established the following rates to be charged by
                    tavern keepers in the county of 
                        Switzerland
                    . For a meal of victuals, 25 cents; for lodging, per night, 121/2
                    cents; for corn or oats, per gallon, 121/2 cents; for horse at hay, per
                    twenty-four hours, 25 cents; for whisky, per half pint, 121/2 cents; for peach
                    brandy, per half pint, 121/2 cents; for Holland gin, French brandy and 
                        Jamaica
                     spirits, 50 cents; for rum, per half pint, 371/2 cents; for
                    imported Maderia wine, per  quart,
                    $2; for 
                        Switzerland
                     Maderia wine, per quart or bottle, $1; for 
                        Switzerland
                     red wine, per quart or bottle, 75 cents; for domestic gin and
                    cherry bounce, per half pint, 183/4 cents.
            In March, 1815, license was granted to William Cooper to keep a tavern in 
                        Vevay
                    . On the 30th of March, 1815, a license was granted to Peter Harris
                    to keep a tavern at his house in this county, and in November, 1815, he laid out
                    the town of 
                        Jacksonville
                    .
            In September, 1815, license was granted to "Uncle" Thomas
                    Armstrong (as he was familiarly called), to keep a tavern in the town of Vevay
                    for one year from the first day of July, 1815, he having entered into bond with
                    security at that time.
            This was, in fact, the first tavern established in Vevay with the ostensible
                    purpose in view of entertaining travelers, for let it be borne in mind that at
                    that time "tippling houses" were unknown in this new country,
                    as by the laws of force, none but tavern keepers were permitted to sell liquor
                    by the small or, as was their usual expression, "by the half
                    pint".
            In some instances the laws were evaded and persons obtained license to keep a
                    tavern who had not the requisite number of extra beds and the extra stable room.
                    This law was in force for some years under the state government.
            On one occasion a person, to obtain license, borrowed three beds of his neighbors
                    and set them up in his house, which was a small one, and rented of a neighbor a
                    stable on an adjoining lot for one month, and when the county court met he
                    produced his proof and proved to the satisfaction of the court that he had the
                    requisite number of extra beds and extra stable room to accommodate the number
                    of travelers and their horses that the territorial law required and obtained a
                    tavern license. Some few days afterward this tavern had no extra beds and soon
                    afterwards no extra stable room, for he had returned the borrowed beds and given
                    up the rented stable, but having the license he continued to sell spiritous and
                    other liquors by the half pint.
            This circumstance is here related to show that the laws relating to the retail of
                    spiritous liquor were violated in those early days of 
                        Switzerland County
                    , as well as in the days that are within the remembrance of many of
                    our young men.
            
            "Uncle" Thomas Armstrong kept his first tavern in a two story
                    log house that stood on the corner of Main and Union streets on the lot on which
                    John F. Doan has erected his new frame dwelling; and continued there until he
                    built his new frame building on Market street, being the house now owned and
                    occupied by John L. Thiebaud.
            The relation of an anecdote in which "Uncle Thomas" was
                    concerned may not be amiss in this connection: At the time he was keeping his
                    tavern in the log house, corner of Main and Union streets, James 
                        Hamilton
                     (the father of Edward P., William and John 
                        Hamilton
                    , who are well known among us) carried on the hatting business in a
                    shop on the half lot on the alley back of the Baptist church, and as it was
                    customary with hatters in those days to call in some of their friends during the
                    night, while coloring, to partake of a "chicken supper". On
                    one of these occasions 
                        Hamilton
                     invited some of his friends, and among the number "Uncle
                    Thomas", to take supper with him. "Uncle Thomas" of
                    course accepted the invitation and with the other guests partook of a splendid
                    "chicken supper." The next morning, when Mrs. Armstrong went
                    to the coop for chickens for breakfast, lo! and behold, they had all
                    "vamoused". She called "Uncle Thomas" and
                    informed him that some one had stolen all the chickens. "Uncle
                    Thomas" at once suspected that he had the night previous been of the
                    party that devoured the chickens which Mrs. Armstrong had intended for
                    breakfast. He said nothing, but afterwards gave 
                        Hamilton
                     a cursing for the trick he had played off on him.
            David McCormick obtained license to keep tavern in Vevay in September, 1815, and
                    kept his tavern in a part of the house in which George E. Pleasants now resides.
            In May, 1816, license was granted to Samuel Fallis to keep a tavern in 
                        Vevay
                    . The house in which he kept his tavern was a one story brick
                    standing on Main street on the lot on which Charles Thiebaud's dwelling
                    house now stands and occupied by him at this time.
            At the same time license was granted to William T. Huff and to Jonas Baldwin to
                    keep a tavern at their respective houses in 
                        Vevay
                    . Huff kept his tavern in a two story building  which stood at the corner of Ferry and Main
                    streets, where the LeClerc House now stands.
            Jonas Baldwin kept his tavern in the frame house now standing on the corner of
                    Ferry and Market streets, now owned by the widow and heirs of the late Joseph
                    Dalmazzo.
            To show the amount of taxes levied for the year 1816, and to show the camparison
                    between them and those of the present day may be a matter of curiosity if
                    nothing more:
            
               On every horse, mule or ass above three years old, 25 cents.
               On first rate land at the rate of 371/2 cents per 100 acres.
               On second rate land at the rate of 25 cents per 100 acres.
               On third rate land at the rate of 121/2 cents per 100 acres.
               On stallions at the rate at which they stand by the season.
               On town lots and houses at the rate of 50 cents per $100 of
                        their value.
               On George Ash's ferry, $2.50.
               On Edward Mclntire's ferry, $2.50.
               On John Francis Dufour's ferry, at 
                            Vevay
                        , $5.
               On George Craig's ferry, $1.
               On F. Louis Raymond's ferry on Indian Creek, 50 cents.
            
            And the following taxes were levied as road taxes for the year 1816:
            
               On Daniel Dufour's store, $3.00.
               On Lucien Gex's store, $3.00.
               On Isaac Stanley's store, $3.00.
               On David McCormick's store, 50 cents.
               On Joseph Bentley's store, 75 cents.
               On Jonathan Reeder's store, 75 cents.
               On James Dalmazzo's store, 25 cents.
            
            The last county court held under the territorial government was held in February,
                    1816. On the 10th of February the first meeting of the board of county
                    commissioners, under the state government, was held.
            What may be said in the coming numbers of this relation in regard to the early
                    settlement of 
                        Switzerland County
                     and Vevay will not have so much of the Swiss colonists as of the
                    general settlements—for persons of other nationalities, after the
                    conclusion of the war with Great Britain in 1815, began to settle in the county.
            Having had much in the former numbers to mention that related to matters of no
                    seeming importance, let the  reader remember
                    that these matters are only related with a view of trying in some manner to have
                    them in such a form that in fifty or more years hence, those who are now boys
                    and girls and will then be men and women may have them so as to relate them to
                    their children and for this reason if no other, every person subscribing for the
                    Democrat should preserve a complete file of the paper.
            Having in the present number come to the time of the admission of Indiana into
                    the Union as a state, in matters pertaining to the manner of doing county
                    business, and other incidents and anecdotes growing out of the same, it will be
                    proper to give some particulars in connection with the circuit court, its
                    judges, attorneys, and officers, and many anecdotes and incidents that may be
                    recollected by the writer or gathered from those of riper years, who were on the
                    stage of action when he was a mere boy.
            If any of these articles may have appeared dull and of little interest to the
                    reader let such remember that in the commencement the writer informed them that
                    it was not his expectation that the language used would be so attractive as to
                    cause the articles to be read on that account, but only as a matter of history,
                    which, it is confessed, is rather "scattering" in its order of
                    introducing the subjects spoken of.
            The first term of the circuit court in and for the county of 
                        Switzerland
                     was begun and held on Friday, the 28th day of October, 1814, and
                    was composed of a circuit, one presiding judge and two associate judges,
                    appointed by the governor of the territory.
            There was present that term of the court the Hon. Elijah Sparks, circuit and
                    presiding judge in the Third circuit, and the Hon. William Cotton and James
                    McClure, associate judges of the circuit court in and for the county of 
                        Switzerland
                    , who produced their commissions as such judges with the certificate
                    thereon of the oaths of office having been duly administered to them; and also
                    John Francis Dufour, who produced his commission as clerk of said court with a
                    certificate endorsed thereon of the oath of office having been duly administered
                    to him. The court thereupon required the said John Francis Dufour to give bond,
                    with security, in the sum  of one thousand
                    dollars, payable to his excellency, Thomas Posey, governor of the Indiana
                    territory, and his successors in office, conditioned for the faithful
                    performance of the duties of the office of clerk of said court, as directed by
                    the act of Assembly in such cases made and provided. There was also present John
                    Francis Siebenthal, who also produced his commission as sheriff of the county,
                    with a certificate endorsed thereupon of the oaths of office having been duly
                    administered to him. The court required him to enter into bond, with security,
                    in the sum of four thousand dollars, payable to the governor of the territory,
                    and his successors in office, conditioned for the faithful performance of the
                    duties of the office of sheriff for the county of 
                        Switzerland
                    , as directed by the act of assembly in that case made and provided.
            The following named persons having been summoned as grand jurors came into court:
                    James Rous, foreman, Stilwell Heady, Philo Averil, George Coggeshell, Peter
                    Harris, Louis Gex Aboussier, John McClure, Amos 
                        Brown
                    , Joseph McFall, Robert Gullion, Thomas Mounts, John Nelson, Philip
                    Bettens, Nathaniel Cotton, Abisha McKay, Henry Hannah, Joshua Kains and Peter
                    Demaree, who, after being duly sworn and charged, retired to consult of the
                    business before them.
            The following named persons were admitted to practice in this court as attorneys
                    and counsellors at law: Amos Lane, William Hendricks, John Test and James Noble.
            The court appointed James Noble, Esq., attorney at law, prosecuting attorney for 
                        Switzerland County
                     for and during good behavier.
            The court also ordered to be entered upon the records rules for the government of
                    the practice in said court—which rules, upon reflection, it is
                    thought proper to make more public than they now are in the old musty records of
                    the court, for the terms of October, 1814, and March, 1815, which is only
                    onehalf quire of foolscap paper stitched together:
            
               I.The attorneys in managing business shall keep themselves within the bar.
               II. All motions shall be made in the morning before entering upon the
                        docket, and not afterward, except such as necessarily arise out of the
                        opening or progress of a cause.
               
               III. Not more than two counsel on each side will be heard in argument upon
                        any motion whatever.
               IV. Not more than three counsel on each side will be permitted to argue a
                        cause to the jury, except the same shall appear to the court to be of more
                        than ordinary importance.
               V. All motions for continuance, and all motions for new trial, grounded
                        upon facts, shall be supported by affidavit and decided without argument.
               VI. When a cause is regularly called and postponed by the consent of the
                        parties, the same shall not be called again until the docket is gone
                        through, and upon the second calling shall not be continued for any ordinary
                        cause of continuance arising posterior to postponement.
               VII. No time will be given to draw a plea after the cause is called for
                        trial; provided, the declaration was on file in sufficient time for putting
                        in plea upon the rules.
               VIII. No agreement of the bar will be regarded by the court unless the
                        same is upon the record or assented to by each party.
               IX. Each cause, when called in order, must be immediately entered upon for
                        trial, continued or postponed by consent of the parties, or placed at the
                        foot of the docket by the plaintiff.
               X. No motion in arrest of judgment, or for a new trial, will be heard
                        after the expiration of three days from the rendering of verdict, except the
                        cause for a new trial shall have been discovered after the expiration of
                        that period.
               XI. In no case shall more than one attorney be permitted to speak on the
                        closing argument.
            
            This completed the first days’ proceedings of this, the first court
                    held for 
                        Switzerland County
                    .
            On Saturday, the 29th of October, 1814 the court met.
            The grand jury impanelled on the previous day returned into court with an
                    indictment against David Bebee for selling unwholesome provisions, and having no
                    further business, were discharged.
            The prosecuting attorney moved the court that a venire facias
                    issue against David Bebee, returnable on the first day of the next March term of
                    the court to answer to the indictment.
            James Noble was allowed sixteen dollars for his services as prosecuting attorney
                    during the term, which was ordered to be certified to the sheriff for payment.
            The court then adjourned to meet on the 27th of March, 1815.
            
            At the March term of the court on the first day Hon. Elijah Sparks, circuit
                    judge, and William Cotton, associate judge, were in attendance.
            On the first day of the term the following named persons were sworn as grand
                    jurors: John Gilliland, foreman, James Stewart, James McKay, Adout Sample,
                    William Harcoat, 
                        Norman
                     B. McGruder, William Smith, Peter Lock, Nicholas Lentz, John 
                        Campbell
                    , Zela Moss, Solomon Nighswonger, Griffith Dickerson, William T.
                    Huff, John Mills, John Rayl, Thomas Gilliland, John 
                        Fenton
                     and Phillip Fry.
            John Lawrence and Pinkney James were admitted to practice law in this court.
            The case of the 
                        United States
                     against David Bebee, indicted at the October term of the court, was
                    tried by a jury which returned a verdict of not guilty.
            The grand jury found and returned into court eight indictments for assault and
                    battery and affrays, two for larceny, and one for retailing spiritous liquors
                    without license.
            James McKay, one of the grand jurors, was arraigned for contempt of the court by
                    being intoxicated, and the court being informed by him that he did not intend
                    offering a contempt to the court by getting and remaining intoxicated, the court
                    discharged him.
            Philip Fry, also a grand jurour, was arrainged for a contempt of court by
                    absenting himself from the grand jury without permission of the court; he stated
                    to the court that he had no intention of offering a contempt to the court, upon
                    which he was discharged.
            James Noble was allowed twenty dollars for his services during the term as
                    prosecuting attorney. The court adjourned until the next term.
            The next term of the court commenced on the 26th day of June, 1815, with the Hon.
                    James Noble as circuit judge, and the same associates as at the other term.
            William Hendricks was appointed prosecuting attorney.
            Stephen C. Stevens was, on motion of Alexander A. Meek, allowed to practice as an
                    attorney and counsellor at law at this court ex gratia.
            At the October term, 1815, of the court, the same judges were on the bench as at
                    the June term.
            
            At this term of the court Alexander Holton, Joseph F. Farley and Reuben Kidder
                    were admitted to practice as attorneys and counsellors at law in this court.
            At the March term, 1816, the Hon. Jesse L. Holman, having been appointed circuit
                    judge, was present and presided, the associate judges also being on the bench.
                    William Hen-drick was still prosecuting attorney.
            At this term of the court Stephen C. Stevens was admitted to practice as an
                    attorney and counsellor at law in this court.
            Two cases for divorce were commenced at the March term, 1816; George Millen
                    against Eliza Millen, and Maria Wilson against William Wilson. In both cases it
                    appeared that the defendants were non-residents of the territory; the court
                    therefore ordered that a copy of the order should be inserted in the Western Sun
                    eight weeks successively. The Western Sun was published at 
                        Vincennes
                    . At the June term of the court these two divorce cases appeared on
                    the docket, and it was made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
                    defendants were not inhabitants of the territory, the court ordered that notice
                    of their pendency be inserted in the Indiana Register for eight weeks
                    successively. The Indiana Register was published in Vevay by William C. Keen; so
                    it may be well to recollect this fact—for this is the best evidence
                    that can now be had of the date of the commencement of a newspaper in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , namely; between the first of April and middle of June, 1816, as it
                    is intended to give a history of the newspaper enterprize in this county in some
                    future number.
            In the case of the 
                        United States
                     against David Bebee, for selling unwholesome flesh, the indictment
                    for which was found by the first grand jury ever impanelled in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , and which was tried at the second term of the circuit court, the
                    following are the names of the persons composing the jury which tried the case:
                    Robert McKay, Robert Baker, Ralph Cotton, Jr., Robert Cotton, John M. Johnson,
                    William 
                        Campbell
                    , Rawleigh Day, Thomas Paxton, Adam Cline, Walter Clark, John T.
                    Denning and Luke Oboussier.
            The first indictment found by the grand jury for larceny was at the second term
                    of the court, and was against a female.
            
            Her name was Isabel English. An indictment for assault and battery was also found
                    against her. She was tried on the indictment for larceny by a jury and
                    acquitted. On the indictment for assault and battery she was fined by the court,
                    $1 and costs, and she was required to enter into recognizance in the
                    sum of $25 for keeping the peace for six months. She came into court
                    and her own recognizance was taken for keeping the peace 
                        towards all the good citizens of the 
                                United States
                            , and more especially towards the person and property of
                            Viletta Richie, for the space of six months.
                    
            
            It appears to have been the invariable practice in the circuit court under the
                    territorial government that when a person was found guilty of an assault and
                    battery, he was required to enter into recognizance to keep the peace. This no
                    doubt was required by the laws then in force. Would it not be a good provision
                    to have incorporated into our statutes at this day? It would no doubt
                    be the means of preventing the many complaints that are now brought into our
                    courts for assault and battery, for it would no doubt deter persons from
                    assaul-ting and beating those with whom they would become angry.
            The following are the names of all attorneys admitted to practice in the circuit
                    court from the formation of the county and until the state was admitted into the
                    Union: Amos Lane, William Hendricks, John Test, James Noble, John Lawrence,
                    Pinkney James, Stephen C. Stevens, Alexander Holton, Joseph F. Farley, Reuben
                    Kidder, Hezekiah B. Hall, Edward Nichols, D. T. Maddox and Jeremiah Sullivan.
            There is still living of these attorneys who were admitted to practice law in our
                    early courts only two: Stephen C. Stevens, who was admitted at the June term,
                    1815, and Jeremiah Sullivan, who was admitted at the October term, 1812. It is
                    worthy of remark here that these two lawyers, who have been attending their
                    profession for more than half a century, were both at one time judges of the
                    supreme court of Indiana. Of the others it may be interesting to many younger
                    persons to know that Amos Lane represented the Third con-gressonal district of
                    Indiana for two or three congresses; as  did
                    also John Test. James Noble was one of the first senators from Indiana in the 
                        United States
                     senate, and resided at 
                        Brookville
                    . William Hendricks was representative in congress, governor of the
                    state, and one of the senators from Indiana in the 
                        United States
                     senate. Of the others, some died many years ago, and some of them
                    left this part of the country, and nothing is known of their residence after
                    leaving here.
            It appears that Judge Sparks was acting as judge only during the October term,
                    1814, and the March term, 1815; and that Judge Noble attended but one term of
                    the court—the June term, 1815.
            At the October term, 1815, William Cotton and James McClure, the associate judges
                    held the court as there was no presiding or circuit judge present, or on the
                    bench during that term.
            At the March term, 1816, Jesse L. Holman presided as the circuit judge, and was
                    the circuit judge until the state government was organized, when he is found on
                    the bench of the supreme court as one of the judges. As an instance of his
                    industry as a judge it may be remarked that the court met at 7 and 8
                    o'clock in the morning often during his term of office.
            At one time quite an amusing scene occurred in the court room before court met in
                    the afternoon, during the time of Judge Holman's being judge, which
                    will here be related as a matter of amusement: A short time before the hour had
                    arrived for the assembling of the court after dinner the two associates were
                    sitting on the bench conversing together when a waggish person who was present
                    stepped forward and seated himself on the right of the two associates and
                    calling the attention of the bystanders, exclaimed with an oath,
                    "I'll bet ten dollars there's one hundred judges on
                    the bench." The bystanders, turning towards where this person and the
                    associate judges were sitting, on the bench from which justice was dispensed
                    discovered that the wag had some kind of sport in his mind; one of the
                    bystanders asked him, "How do you make that?"
                    "Just look," said the wag, "and I will show
                    you;" then pointing to himself he said, "A figure
                    one;" then pointing to the two associate judges on his left he said,
                    "And two  cyphers make one
                    hundred." Leaving the bench amid a general road of laughter from the
                    bystanders, and the downcast look of the two associate judges, of whom it may at
                    this point be said were good and pure men, but no more learned in the law
                    perhaps than the associate judges we had under our laws requiring such judges.
            The courthouse which the county agent had contracted for the building of was not
                    completed so that court could be held in it until at the October term, 1816;
                    which appears to have been the first court held in the courthouse first built on
                    the public square and which was removed to make place for the beautiful building
                    that now graces the public square as the courthouse of this county.
            James Noble, William Hendricks and John Test were the three persons who
                    prosecuted the pleas of the 
                        United States
                     from the organization of the county until the organization of the
                    state government, and they received for their services from $16 to
                    $25, the lowest being $16 and the highest $25.
                    This was paid out of the county treasury.
            The first probate business before the associate judges who had the settlement of
                    decedents’ estates, was an application of Job Trusdell to have a deed
                    made to him for two hundred and fifty-seven acres of land, which he had
                    purchased of Charles 
                        Campbell
                    , for which he held said 
                        Campbell
                    's bond; who had departed this life after the execution of
                    the bond.
            The court ordered that the bond be filed in the clerk's office. The
                    administrators of said 
                        Campbell
                    's estate moved the court to appoint three commissioners to
                    convey the land to the said Trusdell, according to the tenor of the bond, and
                    the act of Assembly in such case made and provided.
            The court appointed William 
                        Campbell
                    , John 
                        Campbell
                     and William Pierson commissioners to convey the land to Job
                    Trusdell in compliance with the conditons of a bond dated 26th February, 1814,
                    according to the 28th section of an act of the legislature entitled "an
                    act authorizing the granting of letters testamentary and letters of
                    administration for the settlement of intestate estates and for other purposes,
                    approved September 17th, 1807." This order was made by the court on the
                    3rd of May, 1815.
            
            The school sections, section 16, in each congressional township which was
                    reserved for school purposes, appears to have been under the control of the
                    territorial legislature as early as 1815, and before the organization of the
                    state government; for on the 28th of October, 1815, at a special court Amos 
                        Brown
                     was appointed by the court a trustee to lease the school sections
                    within the township of Posey in this county, as the law directs; and John
                    Francis Dufour was at the same time appointed a trustee to lease the school
                    sections within the township of Jefferson in this county, as the law directs.
            It appears that under the laws of the territory a person who could not pay his
                    debts was liable to be put in prison, or within the prison bounds, which in this
                    county at the time of which this is written, extended to the limits of the town.
            There are two cases on record of persons petitioning the court under the act for
                    the benefit of insolvent debtors, praying to be discharged from the prison
                    bounds of the county in which they were detained for causes set forth in their
                    petitions. A schedule of all the debts owing, and all the property owned by the
                    petitioner had to be made out and sworn to, and notice given to all his
                    creditors to appear on a certain day and show cause, if any they could, why the
                    petitioner should not be liberated.
            If the court were satisfied that notice had been given to all the creditors of
                    the pendency of the petition, and the time at which it would be acted upon by
                    the court, and that he had delivered all the property named in the schedule to
                    some person as trustee, he could be set at liberty; and the court should order
                    that the clerk issue his warrant to the officer holding the petitioner in
                    custody commanding him to set the petitioner at liberty; and the court also had
                    to appoint a trustee to dispose of all the property of the petitioner for the
                    benefit of his creditors; and that such trustee should make a distribution of
                    the proceeds of such sale according to law.
            There appears to have been but two cases before the court under the territorial
                    government.
            This was a very convenient manner of paying debts, nearly as easy as under the
                    general bankrupt laws made by congress in 1841, and the last bankrupt law, which
                    is now in force.
            
            The public buildings, courthouse and jail, having been completed by the county
                    agent, and paid for out of the money subscribed by those who wished the county
                    seat located at 
                        Vevay
                    ; and all the subscriptions having been paid except about
                    $60, that balance was paid to said agent, who gave a receipt therefor
                    as follows: 
                        Received, Dec. 25, 1821, of John Francis Dufour and Daniel Dufour, by the
                            hands of John Francis Dufour, the sum of $63, being the
                            amount uncollected of the subscribers to the subscription for the public
                            buildings in 
                                Vevay
                            , which the said John Francis Dufour and Daniel Dufour were
                            securities for as appears by the annexed obligation, and which
                            $63 are in full discharge of said obligation.
                        ELISHA GOLAY, Agent for S. C.
                    
            
            Many persons have inquired what the word "Blane" attached to
                    the name Daniel Dufour meant. An explanation of the custom by which that name is
                    annexed, may not be uninteresting to those who may read these articles.
            In 
                        Switzerland
                    , in Europe, and perhaps in some other countries of continental
                    Europe, it is, or was, the custom to attach the family name of the wife to the
                    name of the husband; for instance, Daniel Dufour married a woman whose family
                    name was "Blane," so after his marriage to her he wrote his
                    name "Daniel Dufour Blane." So with Mr. Zelim Humbert, who
                    married for his wife a woman whose family name was "Droz";
                    after his marriage he wrote his name "Zelim Humbert Droz." So
                    with Mr. Louis Gex, he married for his first wife a woman whose family name was
                    "Obous-sier," after his marriage he wrote his name
                    "Louis Gex Obous-sier." These three persons are believed to be
                    the only instances among the Swiss who first settled here who conformed to that
                    custom, they having married in Europe.
            It is not known how extensively this custom was observed in Europe; whether it
                    was a custom prevailing among the aristocracy or among plebians; buit is certain
                    that no one of the Swiss who formed the Vevay colony observed that custom on
                    marrying in this country.
            Among the early settlers as early as 1814 and 1815, may be named Stuman Craig,
                    Samuel Culver and Joshua Kains who lived below 
                        Vevay
                    , and in the neighborhood of George  Craig and opposite to Port William. The Joshua
                    Kains here named it is supposed was Joshua Cain, the father of Judge David Cain,
                    who now resides opposite Carrollton.
            Sometime in 1805 or 1806, the residents of that part of the county now known as
                    Craig township, built a blockhouse, not far from where George Craig afterward
                    settled, to which the residents repaired at the alarm being given that Indians
                    were approaching. In this blockhouse those residing for some miles around were
                    sheltered from the savage foe.
            George Craig himself still resided on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the 
                        Ohio
                    , yet he visited this side of the river, and had frequently
                    sheltered in this blockhouse, and finally he purchased a large tract of land on
                    which, some years afterwards, he located, cleared the land and planted a large
                    orchard.
            When planting such an extensive orchard he was asked why he did so. He replied:
                    "That my grand children may have plenty of apples to eat." Not
                    long since, his daughter, Mrs. Tubitha 0. Kyle, remarked that his grand children
                    ate very few apples grown in that orchard.
            The names of James Hastie, who was the father of William, George, Charles and
                    John Hastie, all four of whom reside in York township, and Charles Muret, who
                    was the father of Julius Muret, Mrs. Mary McCormick, widow of John McCormick,
                    and John L. Muret, appear as early as 1814. Their names are given as they were
                    Europeans. Mr. Hastie first settled on Plumb creek, and in the early days of the
                    settling of this county, he shipped his surplus produce down the river to find a
                    market. For some time he had a very large "perouge," made by
                    digging out a very large poplar tree, (which might be termed a "big
                    dugout,") in which he shipped his surplus corn and potatoes to 
                        Louisville
                    .
            Mr. Charles Muret was a physician, and the only one in the colony from about 1809
                    or 1810 to 1813. Although he was the only physician he had not much practice,
                    for the people were then very seldom sick, and were not so much in favor of
                    sending for a physician for every little ache and pain, as we of the present
                    time.
            Some years after Dr. Muret had been in the country he concluded to return to
                    Europe. His family in 
                        Switzerland
                    
                     were wealthy and influential, and the
                    doctor had received an excellent education, and was what we at this day would
                    call smart. As the least expensive way of returning to Europe, he descended the
                    river to 
                        New Orleans
                     on a flat boat with Charles F. Krutz, or some one of the early
                    river traders. Arriving at 
                        New Orleans
                     the doctor not having funds sufficient to pay his passage, engaged
                    with the owner of a steam mill for a month or two as fireman. Having served out
                    his time and received his pay he embarked on board a vessel bound to Bordeaux or
                    Havre, in 
                        France
                    , where he arrived after the usual length of time required to make
                    the voyage. Arrived at the seaport he directed his steps to the office of an
                    uncle, who was a banker and a wealthy person. Arriving at the office before the
                    hour at which his uncle usually reached his office, the doctor inquired of a
                    "domestique" who was sweeping the office, and without making
                    himself known, if his uncle was in the office. Being answered in the negative,
                    he inquired at what hour he would be in. The "domestique,"
                    surveying the doctor from head to foot, inquired of him in a saucy manner, what
                    he wanted. The doctor, who, perhaps, was not as gaily attired as persons who
                    generally called to see his employer, informed the
                    "domestique" that he wished to see him, and would call again
                    when he was in. The doctor returned at the hour, met the same
                    "domestique," and inquired for the banker. The
                    "domestique" inquired what business he had with the banker.
                    The doctor only replied, "I wish to see him; I must and will see
                    him;" at the same instant forcing his way into the office
                    notwithstanding the remonstrances of the "domestique," where
                    he met his uncle, made himself known to him; and, after conversing together a
                    short time, his uncle gave the doctor an order on a clothier near by, where he
                    dressed himself decently, and with a cane and entire new suit of clothing, made
                    his way back to the office; on entering he met the
                    "domestique," to whom he addressed himself. "You
                    scoundrel and puppy why did you insult me this morning?" The
                    "domestique" asked his pardon and appeared very sorry for his
                    conduct in the morning. The doctor only saying to him, apparently in anger, and
                    brandishing his cane over his head: "You scoundrel and puppy, I will
                    learn you how to insult gentlemen 
                    hereafter. Do you know whom you were treating so shamefully this morning. I will
                    let you know that I was "fireman" in America."
                    Whereupon the "domestique" bowed and scraped and asked a
                    thousand pardons; supposing that he had insulted an officer of high rang from
                    America in the person of the doctor, who had been a "fireman"
                    in a steam mill.
            During the year 1813 or 1814, Amie Dufour, brother of the Dufour family, embarked
                    for the 
                        United States
                    ; and, while traversing the Atlantic, the vessel on which he
                    embarked was captured by a British cruiser, and he was in consequence detained
                    many days and months before reaching the 
                        United States
                    . He finally landed at 
                        Boston
                    , and not having funds sufficient to defray the expense of traveling
                    in any other manner, he started from 
                        Boston
                     for the Swiss settlement on the 
                        Ohio
                    , on foot; and traveled from 
                        Boston
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on foot; often at night sleeping in a barn; and reached his friends
                    in New 
                        Switzerland
                     during the fore part of the summer, arriving at his sisters, Mrs.
                    Morerod's, where he remained some time. He assisted in laying the brick
                    of the brick dwelling now owned and occupied by J. R. Morerod. He also assisted
                    in making the brick and laying them, to build the back buildings, such as the
                    kitchen and smoke house.
            Mrs. Morerod, after the arrival of her brother Amie, hung the clothes he wore
                    while traveling, and in which he slept in the barns, on a peach tree before the
                    house. Under the peach tree afterwards came up and grew some
                    "orchard" grass, the first ever seen in the west by the
                    pioneers of that day. The seed, no doubt, having attached to the clothes in one
                    of the barns, was thus brought to the west.
            Sometime in 1814 one Bazilla Clark came to Vevay and established a nail factory
                    on the lot, corner of Main and Walnut streets, which he continued to carry on
                    for some time.
            The nails were cut by horse power, and the heads were made by placing one nail at
                    a time in a vice, and with a hammer was flattened out to make the head. Nails
                    thus made by him at that time sold for about 25 cents per pound. This was a
                    tedious manner for making nails in comparison with the manner of cutting and
                    finishing nails by the machinery in use for that purpose at this day.
            
            The first brick building erected in Vevay was the old courthouse, the walls of
                    which were put up in 1815, but not completed until the October term, 1816, of
                    the circuit court, that being the first court held in it. In the fall of 1815
                    Lucien Gex built a small one story brick on Main street, in which he kept his
                    store for some time. That small brick is the oldest brick building now standing
                    in the town, and may be seen standing opposite the residences of Col. Ormsby and
                    James Harwood.
            It has been said by Richard Dumont, (now deceased), that the first marriage
                    license granted in 
                        Switzerland County
                     after its organization, was granted to himself to marry Matilda
                    Phillips. Mrs. Dumont is still living, and resides in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            Among the early traders to 
                        New Orleans
                    , or the "
                        Mississippi
                     country" as it was then called, may be named Charles F.
                    Krutz and George Turner, who lived on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river, the father of Robert and John Turner; who each
                    year descended the river with boats laden with produce.
            It is said that Mr. Turner, on some of his trips, took with him turkeys, dressed
                    and packed in barrels. He purchased in the fall all the wild turkeys he could,
                    took their breasts, and placing them in barrels, put a pickle or brine on them,
                    and in that manner kept them in fine conditon; and it is said he made
                    considerable money on turkeys thus prepared.
            After selling out in the lower country the hands who took the boats down, as well
                    as the owners, to get home, traversed the Indian country on foot; or, if they
                    preferred, and had the means they purchased a "Chickasaw
                    poney," on which to make the trip; which required a few more hours than
                    are now required to make the trip from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            After the organization of the county of 
                        Switzerland
                     it was necessary to select and elect some person to represent the
                    county in the territorial legislature. The county not being fully organized
                    until October, 1814, it is probable no one was elected for representative until
                    sometime in 1815. Elisha Golay was the first representative elected and, it is
                    thought the only one from 
                        Switzerland County
                     until the organization of the state government, in 1816.
            
            On the second Monday in May, 1816, delegates were elected from the several
                    counties of the (then) territory to meet in convention to form a constitution
                    for the state. In 
                        Switzerland County
                     only two candidates were before the people for their suffrages,
                    to-wit: John Dumont and William Cotton. Judge Cotton was chosen to represent 
                        Switzerland County
                     in that convention. The convention met at Corydon on the second
                    Monday in June, 1816, and on the 29th of June the delegates signed the
                    constitution adopted by them, for and in the name of the people; which
                    constitution was in full force until the adoption of the present constitution of
                    the state in 1851.
            Candidates presenting themselves before the people, seeking their suffrages, were
                    not chosen so much (in whose early days of the territory and state) on account
                    of their politics, as for their known capacity to discharge the duties of the
                    offices to which they aspired.
            It may be observed, however, that in the election of a delegate to congress the
                    slavery question was agitated as early as 1810 and 1811. At an election for
                    delegate at one time Jonathan Jennings was the anti-slavery candidate, and,
                    perhaps, John Lawrence the slavery candidate. Jennings was elected, and became
                    very prominent as an opponent of admitting slavery in Indiana when it should
                    become a state. So prominent was he, that at one time John Francis Dufour, being
                    at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , and calling on
                    Henry 
                        Clay
                    , took occasion to inquire of him what he though of the young
                    delegate from Indiana territory. Mr. 
                        Clay
                     remarked that he was a prominent and promising young man, but
                    thought he was wrong in his opposition against admitting slavery into the state
                    which was to be made of the territory of Indiana.
            Mr. Jennings continued steadfast in his oppositon to making a slave state of
                    Indiana, and lived to be the president of the convention that formed the first
                    constitution of Indiana, and was elected the first governor of the state, and
                    was several times returned to congress as a representative of the state.
            Years after Indiana became a state, and began to go far ahead of 
                        Kentucky
                     in increase of wealth and population, Mr. Dufour happened to be at
                    Mr. Clays, near 
                        Lexington
                    , when, in the course of conversation, Mr. 
                        Clay
                     remarked that, in his  opinion,
                    the people of Indiana were wise in excluding slavery from the state; as he was
                    convinced that the rapid growth of the state in wealth and population was
                    attributable in a great degree to the fact that slavery was prohibited; while
                    Ken’ tucky, with as fertile a soil as Indiana, and a much older
                    state, was not increasing in wealth and population as fast; simply because
                    slavery was tolerated in the state.
            In the spring of 1816, William C. Keen came to Vevay in company with a young man
                    named Robert Burchfield, bringing with him a printing press. A partnership was
                    formed between William C. Keen, John Francis Dufour and Robert Burchfield, to
                    publish a newspaper and carry on the printing business. The publication of the
                    newspaper, the Indiana Register, was commenced sometime in the
                    spring of 1816, perhaps in the month of May or June, under the management of the
                    firm established by the three persons above named, under the name and style of
                    Dufour, Keen & Co., and continued until one volume and a half of the
                    paper was completed by them. The partnership thus formed commenced the newspaper
                    enterprize in 
                        Switzerland county
                    . On the 16th of December, 1817, the partnership of Dufour, Keen
                    & Co., was dissolved by mutual consent, and all indebted to the firm for
                    job printing, advertising and subscription were requested to make payment to
                    Robert Burchfield. On the dissolution of that partnership John Francis Dufour
                    announced to the patrons of the Indiana Register that he had
                    become sole proprietor of the printing establishment, and that it was his
                    intention to continue the publication of the Register. Mr.
                    Dufour secured the services of Robert Burchfield, who was a practical printer,
                    to do the mechanical work of the printing establishment, and he was the
                    "printer" and Mr. Dufour editor and publisher. Mr. Burchfield
                    receiving a certain part of the receipts of the establishment for his services;
                    in fact, he was a silent partner. The Register office was
                    carried on by Messrs. Dufour & Burchfield until the latter part of the
                    year 1819, or beginning of 1820. At which time John Douglas came to Vevay and
                    took charge of the office, either by purchasing or hireing the press and
                    materials—it is not known which—and continued to conduct
                    the paper for, perhaps, about two  years and
                    a half; when he removed to the then seat of government of the state, Corydon,
                    where he remained until 1824, when he removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and there established the Indiana State Journal,
                    which he continued to conduct until the time of his death.
            William C. Keen again took charge of the office, and in November or December,
                    1823, re-commenced the publication of the Indiana Register,
                    and continued its publication until about 1826; when he retired from the
                    printing business for a time, and the business was carried on by Thomas Berryman
                    and John Allen. Whether they continued the paper under the same name is not now
                    recollected. However, John Allen, the junior partner in the business, left Vevay
                    and removed to 
                        Salem
                     in 
                        Washington
                     county, where he published a paper called the Annotator, until his death from cholera in 1832 or 1833. Berryman
                    continued in Vevay until perhaps the latter part of 1831 or beginning of 1832;
                    and during this interval Keen removed to Printer's Retreat, taking his
                    printing establishment with him; and in partnership with a person by the name of
                    Child commenced the publication of a paper called the Weekly
                        Messenger; which was continued until in 1836 or 1837, when Child took
                    the establishment to 
                  Warsaw,
                            Kentucky
               , where he
                    and one Josephus B. 
                        Kent
                     published a paper for some time, and Keen purchased the steam mill
                    in Vevay of Joshua Smithson, giving his Printer's Retreat lands in
                    payment therefor.
            About the year 1832 one Richard Randall came to Vevay with a printing press, and
                    commenced the publication of the Monitor, a neutral paper in
                    politics; which was continued for three or four years; during which time a very
                    lively newspaper war was carried on between Randall and Keen & Co. But
                    finally Keen and Randall suspended the business of printing; Randall taking his
                    press and materials to 
                        Madison
                     or Vernon, and the establishment of Keen & Co. was removed
                    to 
                        Warsaw
                     as above mentioned.
            
               
                        Switzerland county
                     would then have been left without a printing establishment had not
                    Isaac Stevens, Jr. soon after the presidential election of 1836, brought to
                    Vevay a printing establishment, and commenced the publication of the Village  Times, which was
                    also neutral in politics. The publication of the Times was
                    continued by Isaac Stevens until the commencement of the political campaign in
                    1840, when the press and materials were disposed of by Edward Patton, who it
                    appears owned the establishment at the time, to Wilson H. Gray, previous,
                    however, to the commencement of the campaign in 1840. Stevens had changed the
                    course of the Times and in 1838 or 1839 conducted it as a
                    Democratic paper. When Gray purchased the establishment it was the understanding
                    that he was to continue the publication of the paper as a Democratic paper; and
                    he commenced his career here as the editor of a Democratic paper, which appeared
                    to be in consonance with his political views; he having for some years previous
                    conducted the 
                  
                            Madison
                         Courier as a Democratic paper.
            However after the candidates for senator and representative and for county
                    officers were placed before the voters of the county, Joseph C. Eggleston, who
                    had been a life-long Democrat, was put in nomination by the Whig party for
                    senator; whereupon Gray changed, or contemplated changing, his paper from a
                    Democratic to a Whig paper; whereupon, Edward Patton, who had sold the press and
                    materials of the establishment to Gray, waited on Gray to ascertain if it was
                    true that he was about to change the political course of the Times, and being
                    answered by Gray in the affirmative, Patton took possession of the office and
                    placed it under the control of the Democratic central committee of the county,
                    who conducted the paper through the canvass to the close of the volume.
            Joseph C. Eggleston, after Gray was dispossessed of the Times
                    office purchased a new press and materials and started Wilson H. Gray in the
                    publication of a Whig paper entitled the Statesman, which was
                    conducted by him until sometime in 1841 or 1842, when the publication was
                    entirely suspended, and Eggleston disposed of the press and material.
            At the expiration of the year that the Times was conducted by
                    the Democratic central committee, James G. Fanning came to Vevay and took upon
                    himself the publication of a Democratic paper, which he called Spirit of the Times,  the
                    publication of which was continued by him from 1841 until 1843, or the beginning
                    of 1844; after which Isaac Stevens took charge of the press and material, which
                    he had brought here, and, in connection with Benjamin L. Simmons, commenced the
                    publication of the Indiana Palladium, which was continued for
                    two or three years, when Stevens and Simmons disposed of the establishment to C.
                    S. Horton, a brother-in-law of J. C. Wells and Walter H. Wells. Horton commenced
                    the publication of a paper which he named 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Valley Gazette, and continued its publication for two or
                    three years, when the establishment was disposed of by Horton to Otis S. and
                    Frederick J. Waldo, who continued the publication of a Democratic paper for a
                    short time, then turned it to a neutral, and finally, in 1853 or 1854, to a Know
                    Nothing organ.
            In the fall of 1855 one Charles Scott came to Vevay with a printing establishment
                    and commenced the publication of a Democratic paper called The
                    News, which he continued for one or two years, during which time the Reveille, published by F. J. Waldo, was the organ of the
                    opposition to the Democracy. Scott finally sold out the News
                    office to one P. H. Hale, a young 
                        Vermont
                     lawyer, who soon failed and the establishment went into the
                    possession of Benjamin F. Schenck who in connection with Merret Tague continued
                    the publication of the News for two or three years, when the materials were
                    disposed of by Benjamin F. Schenck to the Reveille office, so
                    that the two printing establishments were united and under the control of F. J.
                    Waldo.
            After the adoption of the constitution of the state in 1816, and the admission of
                    Indiana into the Union as an independent and sovereign state, the mode of
                    transacting county business was changed, so that instead of the associate judges
                    transacting that business, three county commissioners were elected for that
                    purpose.
            The first commissioners elected were James Rous, Cabel Mounts and Isaac Stanley,
                    who met at the courthouse in Vevay on the 10th day of February, 1817, that being
                    the day, as appears of record, appointed by law for the first meeting of the
                    board of commissioners in each county of the state. It appears that James Rous
                    was elected to serve until the first  Monday
                    in August, 1818, and Isaac Stanley until the first Monday in August, 1819, and
                    Caleb Mounts until the first Monday in August, 1820. It may not be out of place
                    to say here that James Rous resided on what is now the pauper farm in Craig
                    township, Isaac Stanley in 
                        Vevay
                    , where he was merchandizing, and Caleb Mounts in the upper end of
                    the county, near Grant's creek. No doubt there are those in that part
                    of Posey township that may remember him. The board having been organized on the
                    first day, adjourned until the next day.
            The only business transacted on the second day was the dividing of the county
                    into five townships, named Posey, Cotton, Ross, Craig and Jefferson.
            All that part of the county lying east of the line dividing ranges one and two in
                    the district of lands offered for sale at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to form one township, to be known by the name and style of Posey
                    township.
            All that part of the county which lies within the following bounds, to-wit:
                    Beginning at the southeast corner of section twelve, town two, range two, thence
                    running west with the sectional line to the southwest corner of section nine,
                    town three, range three, thence north to the county line, thence east with said
                    line to the range line dividing ranges one and two, thence south with said range
                    line to the place of beginning; to form one township, to be known by the name
                    and style of Cotton township.
            All that part of the county which lies in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     district north of the line dividing townships five and six, to form
                    and be one township, to be known by the name and style of Ross township.
            All that part of the county which lies west of the sectional line, which strikes
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     river between fractional sections thirty-two and thirty-three in
                    town two, range three, in 
                        Cincinnati
                     district, and south of the line dividing town-ships five and six in
                    Jefferson district, to form and be one township, to be known by the name and
                    style of Craig township.
            All that part of the county which lies within the following bounds, to-wit:
                    Beginning where the line dividing range  one
                    and two, strikes the 
                        Ohio
                     river, thence running north with said line to the southeast corner
                    of section twelve, town two, range two, thence west with the sectional line to
                    the southwest corner of section nine, town three, range three, thence south with
                    the sectional line to the 
                        Ohio
                     river between fractional sections thirty-two and thirty-three in
                    town two, range three, thence up the river following the meanders thereof to the
                    place of beginning, to form and be one township, to be known by the name and
                    style of Jefferson township.
            The board, on the third day of the session, ordered that an election for the
                    purpose of electing justices of the peace in the several townships of the
                    county, be held on Saturday, the 22nd day of February, 1817; and that the voters
                    of Posey township elect two justices of the peace; the voters of Cotton township
                    one; the voters of Ross township one; the voters of Craig township two; and the
                    voters of Jefferson township two. The board further ordered that on Saturday,
                    the first day of March, 1817, an election should be held at the courthouse in 
                        Vevay
                    , to elect two additional justices of the peace, who should reside
                    at the county seat, according to the law in this case made and provided.
            The board also ordered that the place of holding elections in Posey township be
                    at the house of Elizabeth Searcy; in Cotton township at the house of Lot Hamman
                    in Allensville; in Ross township at the house of William Ross; in Craig township
                    at the house of Daniel Bray; and in Jefferson township at the courthouse in 
                        Vevay
                    . The board also appointed the following named persons as inspectors
                    of elections in their several townships; Posey township, William Pierson; Cotton
                    township, Joseph Pugh; Ross township, James G. Wilson; Craig township, George
                    Craig; and Jefferson township, Laurence Nihell.
            The clerk was ordered to make out an extract of these proceeding and cause one
                    hundred copies thereof to be printed, and delivered to the sheriff, to be by him
                    distributed throughout the county. This was the notice given of the time and the
                    place of holding the elections for justices of the peace, and also the notice to
                    the persons appointed as inspectors of elections in the several townships of
                    their appointment. This  completed the
                    business of the first meeting of the board of county commissioners for 
                        Switzerland county
                    .
            The next session was begun and held on the 12th of May, 1817. The board appointed
                    George Wade and Martin Adkins constables for Posey township; Newton H. Tapp,
                    James Dugan and Frederick Waldo constables for Jefferson township; and Larken
                    Cook constable for Ross township.
            On the second day of the session Samuel Fallis was appointed treasurer for the
                    county for one year from the second Monday in February, 1817. The board
                    appointed the following named persons listers of taxable property within their
                    respective townships: George Wade, for Posey; Joseph Noble, for Jefferson;
                    George Bennett, for Cotton; Larken Cook, for Ross; and John Wright, for Craig.
            Abram Vandusen was appointed constable for Craig. The board also appointed
                    superintendents for the several school sections No. 16 in the several
                    congressional townships in the county. They appointed supervisors for the roads
                    and allotted the hands to each supervisor. They also appointed fence viewers and
                    overseers of the poor for the several townships, and this being done, the
                    arrangements for the transaction of the county business was completed and put
                    into operation.
            All the business transacted by the commissioners for the first year or two, was,
                    of course, very tedious, and required much time to perfect all the business, as
                    everything was new, and all that was done had to be done from the knowledge the
                    commissioners had of the different localities of the county.
            About the year 1817 and 1818 quite a spirited contest began to manifest itself
                    among the rival military aspirants. There were several persons very anxious to
                    fill the offices of colonel and lieutenant-colonel of the regiment of militia to
                    be organized in the county. The two most prominent being Rawleigh Day and Paxton
                    W. Todd, the latter of whom was elected lieutenant-colonel; while the former,
                    who on many occasions, in quite a boisterous manner, made it generally
                    understood by all who heard him that "he could fight a funeral and die
                    the death of a pilgrim's progress"; "that his father
                    was a dutchess and his mother was a duke, and I, Colonel Rawleigh Day, am
                    Colonel of the bloody 14th regiment of Indiana militia". Such then, let
                    it be borne in mind, was the  commandant of
                    the regiment of militia which yearly, for some years, was called together in the
                    quiet town of Vevay to exhibit to the citizens their fine military bearing under
                    their noted commandant, Col. Rawleigh Day, armed and equipped—not as
                    the law directed—but with cornstalk guns, and all the accoutrements
                    to correspond. The lieut.-colonel did not cut quite such a fantastic figure on
                    parade as his superior in command, and they too frequently differed as to the
                    manner in which certain evolutions should be performed which, on more than one
                    occasion, was the cause of a regular battle between the two field officers in
                    the evening, after the regiment was dismissed, in which the claret imbibed
                    caused the "claret" to flow freely from the wounds received.
                    These differences of opinion not only caused these two
                    "heroes" to shed their blood in these battles, but caused the
                    grand jurors and the judge and officers of the courts to spend some of their
                    time in vindicating the civil law for violations of its wholesome provisions, as
                    the records of the court about that time will make plain.
            There were several companies commanded by Francis S. Lindley, George G. 
                        Knox
                    , Charles Henderson, Henry Peters, John Stepleton and others, not
                    now recollected, belonging to the regiment of which Colonel Day was commandant,
                    which performed company drill some two or three times in the course of the
                    summer, battalion drill once during the year, and in the fall the companies
                    commanded by the above named captains, and several other companies, including a
                    cavalry company commanded by Captain John Fox, at one time met in Vevay and
                    performed regimental drill. On these occasions the town was filled to
                    overflowing, not only with military but with many boys and rosy cheeked lasses,
                    old men and women, who had come to town to see some of the wonderful military
                    talents of the age exhibited on the field (not) of battle, but of fun and
                    frolic, for such indeed seemed to be what every person, from the highest officer
                    in that service down to the lowest private in the ranks, professedly had come
                    together for. On such occasions gingerbread in sections and quarter sections,
                    and cider by the glass, quart and gallon were in great demand, the demand
                    sometimes exceeding the supply.
            To be contined)
         
      
   
