
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 55, Issue 1, pages 1-109. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:55+issue:1+year:1959&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Indiana Education of Charles A. Beard
            
                    Clifton J. Phillips
                    *
                
            Charles A. Beard, who became one of the best known and most controversial social scientists in the
                    nation before his death in 1948 at the age of seventy-three, spent the first third of his life in
                    the state of his birth, Indiana. During these formative years he lived on the family farm in 
                        Henry County
                    , attended a small private academy which was under 
                        Quaker
                     auspices, ran a weekly newspaper in 
                        Knightstown
                    , and earned a college degree at DePauw University in Green-castle. Although he
                    completed his professional training at 
                        Oxford
                    , Cornell, and 
                        Columbia
                    , and lived outside Indiana for most of the rest of his career, he often referred
                    proudly to his Hoosier upbringing and education. Recalling in 1936 how he had helped found Ruskin
                    Hall at 
                        Oxford
                     during his graduate student days, Beard described himself as "an American
                    ‘from the wilds of Indiana’ who had read Ruskin in the library of
                    ‘a freshwater college.’"1 His Indiana background
                    enabled him to boast of knowing "something about the frontier at first hand,"2 and he used his boyhood experience to dispute the theory of frontier
                    individualism: 
                        I knew in my youth pioneers in Indiana who had gone into the country of my birth when it was
                            a wilderness. My early memories are filled with the stories of log-cabin days—of
                            community helpfulness, of cooperation in building houses and barns, in harvesting crops, in
                            building schools, in constructing roads and bridges, in nursing the sick, in caring for
                            widows, 
                        
                           * Clifton J. Phillips is Assistant Professor of
                                    History at DePauw University, 
                                        Greencastle
                                    , Indiana. This article has developed from a larger study of Charles A.
                                    Beard which he has undertaken.
                        
                           1 Charles A. Beard, "Ruskin and the Babble of
                                    Tongues," New Republic, LXXXVII (August 5, 1936), 372.
                        
                           2 Letter from Charles A. Beard to the editor, 
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Times, January 23, 1938.
                     
                             orphans and the aged. Of individuals I heard much, of
                            individualism little. I doubt whether anywhere in the 
                                United States
                             there was more community spirit, more mutual aid in all times of need, so
                            little expectation of material reward for services rendered to neighbors.3
                  
                     Far from claiming the Indiana frontier as the source of his political radicalism, Beard
                    always emphasized that he was brought up in the "Federalist-Whig-Republican
                    tradition," and did not discover that any other was possible until early manhood.4
            
            Among those who are currently assessing the noted historian's life and work there is wide
                    disagreement about the significance of his Indiana background. One writer has argued that little
                    occurred during Beard's youth "to jolt and undermine his family traditions and
                    orthodoxies," and locates his political awakening at 
                        Oxford
                    , where he met the Kansas socialist, Walter Vrooman, with whom he was associated in
                    founding Ruskin Hall as a workingman's college in 1899.5 At the other
                    extreme, a student of Beard's, early political ideas thinks it "safe to
                    infer" that the young DePauw graduate of 1898 had already assumed "an Indiana
                    Populist's view of the world."6 Hubert Herring and Eric F.
                    Goldman, both of whom have drawn upon the historian's private recollections, lay stress on
                    the Beard family's conservative Republicanism but indicate that the young college student
                    "learned to discount his traditions" at DePauw, especially as the result of a
                    visit to the slums of 
                        Chicago
                     in the summer of 1896, when he met and talked with reformers like Jane Addams, John R.
                    Commons, and Graham Taylor.7 Merle Curti has also presented evidence that
                    Colonel James Riley Weaver, a Civil War veteran and former diplomat who introduced the writings
                        
                  
                     3 Beard, "The Frontier in American History," New Republic, XCVII (February 1, 1939), 361.
                  
                     4 Beard, Review of A Constitutional History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , by Andrew C. McLaughlin, ibid., XCII (September 15,
                            1937), 162.
                  
                     5Harlan B. Phillips. "Charles Beard, Walter Vrooman, and the
                            Founding of Ruskin Hall," South Atlantic Quarterly, L (April,
                            1951), 186.
                  
                     6 Bernard C. Borning, "The Political Philosophy of Young
                            Charles A. Beard," American Political Science Review, XLIII
                            (December, 1949), 1167.
                  
                     7 Hubert Herring, "Charles A. Beard: Free Lance Among the
                            Historians," Harper's Magazine, CLXXVIII (May, 1939),
                            641–642; Eric F. Goldman, Rendezvous with Destiny (
                                New York
                            . 1952), 115–116: and Goldman, "Charles A. Beard: An
                            Impression," Charles A. Beard: An Appraisal, ed. Howard K. Beale (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1954), 2–3.
               
                     of Karl Marx and other unorthodox thinkers in sociology and
                    political science classes at DePauw, may have opened the undergraduate's eyes.8 On the other hand, Howard K. Beale seems to underrate Beard's formal
                    training in Indiana and at 
                        Oxford
                    , claiming that "perhaps the most important parts of his education were his
                    experience as editor of a small-town Indiana paper and his activity in the Independent Labour Party
                    in 
                        England
                    ."9 In view of inconclusive evidence and divergent
                    arguments thus far published, a study of the materials available for a closer examination of Charles
                    Beard's life in Indiana may throw additional light on both his early intellectual
                    development and his subsequent career.
            Descended from 
                        North Carolina
                     Quakers of colonial antecedents, Charles Austin Beard was born November 27, 1874, on a
                    farm in Wayne Township, a few miles north of 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana, where his father had settled after leaving the South at the beginning of the
                    Civil War in order to remain loyal to the Union.10 The family background
                    contained more than a little of the nonconformity which was to become characteristic of
                    Charles' own later career. His grandfather, Nathan, who had been "read
                    out" of the Society of Friends for marrying outside the meeting, was a free thinking
                    individualist whose large library included books by Thomas Paine and other Deists.11 Of his grandmother, Caroline Beard, it was reported in 1891 that "down to the
                    present period of her busy life she has never attached herself to any church, or subscribed to any
                        creed."12 Charles' father, William Henry Harrison Beard,
                    named for the Whig hero elected to the presidency in the year of his birth, was a carpenter-farmer
                    who prospered as a building contractor and a small-town banker, but raised his two sons in the hard
                    discipline of manual labor on the family farm. Charles Beard 
                  
                     8 Merle Curti, "A Great Teacher's Teacher,"
                                Social Education, XIII (October, 1949), 263–267.
                  
                     9 Howard K. Beale, "Charles Beard: Historian," in
                                Charles A. Beard: An Appraisal, ed. Beale, 151.
                  
                     10 Charles A. Beard, New 
                                Milford
                            , Conn., to Ed Kirkpatrick, assistant publisher of the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, July 17, 1948, printed in the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, July 23, 1948. Information about the elder Beard can be found in
                            Inter-State Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 796–798; and B. F. Bowen (pub.), Biographical
                                Memoirs of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana (
                                Logansport
                            , Ind., 1902), 232.
                  
                     11 Mary Ritter Beard, The Making of Charles A. Beard (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 9, 12.
                  
                     12
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, June 12, 1891.
               
                     later told Hubert Herring, "‘I had so much
                    exercise that I have needed none since.’"13
            
            In 1880 the Beards moved to another farm near Spice-land so that the children could enjoy the
                    educational advantages of the Friends' Academy there.14 In this small 
                        Quaker
                     village, "a community of a rare spirit," young
                    "Charley" Beard spent his school days playing baseball and football, taking part
                    in the "battle of the walnuts" along the banks of Bezor Brook; he was occasionally
                    entertained, as he remembered it long afterwards, by plays given by wandering troupes and by
                    political speeches and torchlight parades. Although his parents were not practicing Quakers, they
                    required that he sit on the hard wooden benches of the meeting house on First Day. At 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy, surrounded by "good, moral influences,"15 Charles studied Latin, history, physics, and English literature and debated current topics
                    in the literary societies, where he attained his first reputation as a public speaker. Unable to
                    finish with his class because of a schoolboy prank, he transferred to 
                        Knightstown
                     High School, from which he was graduated in 1891. Seven years later, shortly before his
                    departure for graduate study in 
                        England
                    , the 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy authorities granted him the belated diploma.16
            
            In the summer of 1891 Charles Beard entered the newspaper business with his brother Clarence, when
                    their father purchased for them the 
                        Knightstown
                    
                    Sun, at the masthead of which was the line, "Publishers: Beard
                        Bros."17 Charles had already had some printing experience,
                    operating a small hand press on his father's 
                        Spiceland
                     farm while Clarence 
                  
                     13Herring, Harper's Magazine, CLXXVIII
                            (May, 1939), 642.
                  
                     14 The description of Beard's boyhood in 
                                Spiceland
                             comes largely from a letter written by the historian in 1938 on the occasion of
                            the celebration of the town's one hundredth anniversary, printed in Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial (
                                Spiceland
                            , Ind., 1938), 15–17, and in the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, July 22, 1938. See also page 000 of this issue for this letter.
                  
                     15
                            Catalogue of the Officers and Students of 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Academy 1890–1891 (
                                Knightstown
                            , Ind., 1891), 7.
                  
                     16 Charles A. Beard, New 
                                Milford
                            , Conn., to Ed Kirkpatrick, July 17, 1948, printed in the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, July 23, 1948; Mrs. W. A. Hood, 
                                Spiceland
                            , to the author, November 19, 1957; L. E. Rogers, Superintendent of Schools, 
                                Knightstown
                            , to the author, December 17, 1957.
                  
                     17
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, August 7,1891. A few copies of the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Sun for this period are filed in the archives of the 
                                Henry County
                             Historical Society, 
                                New Castle
                            , Ind., and in the office of the publisher of the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner.
               
                     was a student at Indiana University in 
                        Bloomington
                    . The two young men made 
                        Knightstown
                     their headquarters for nearly four years, editing and publishing a weekly newspaper
                    that advocated prohibition and supported the Republican party, like many other small-town Indiana
                    papers of the time. Although Charles often had to set type himself in the small shop just off the
                    National Road where they began publication,18 by the middle of 1893 the Beard
                    brothers had prospered sufficiently to build a new brick building on West Main Street and to install
                    improved machinery.19 As the successful historian described his publishing
                    experience years later, he "‘made it pay too.’"20
            
            The 
                        Knightstown
                     newspaper venture came to an end when Clarence, who was becoming deeply involved in
                    local Indiana politics, went to 
                        New Castle
                     to establish the 
                  
                            Henry County
                         Republican.21 Although Charles acted as a part-time
                    reporter during summer vacations for his brother's new paper, which backed McKinley and the
                    nomination of James Watson as Republican candidate for Congress in 1896, he had already decided to
                    enter college and enrolled at DePauw University in 
                        Greencastle
                     in the spring of 1895, "a young man of much promise," as the 
                        New Castle
                    
                    Courier called him.22 The Methodist minister in 
                        Knightstown
                    , Asher S. Preston, an alumnus of DePauw, recognized the young editor's talents
                    and encouraged him to seek a college education.23 There is some evidence that
                    Charles Beard at this time considered the Methodist ministry as a possible career, and the county
                    press recorded several occasions when he was called upon to preach at local churches.24
            
            
               
                  18 Interview with Frank E. Edwards, Ogden, Ind., a former resident of 
                            Knightstown
                        , September 5, 1957.
               
                  19
                        
                            New Castle
                        
                        Courier, January 27, June 30, 1893.
               
                  20 Herring, Harper's Magazine, CLXXVIII (May,
                        1939), 642.
               
                  21 Bowen, Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 411–412; George Hazzara, Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 1822–1906 (2 vols., 
                            Logansport
                        , Ind., 1906), II, 1093.
               
                  22
                        
                            New Castle
                        
                        Courier, March 15, 1895.
               
                  23 Floyd J. Newby, Pacific Palisades, Calif., to the author, September 10,
                        1957.
               
                  24
                        
                            New Castle
                        
                        Courier, July 5, September 13, 27, 1895. At the time of his first appearance
                        on the DePauw campus, according to two contemporaries who knew him, the red-headed Beard dressed
                        in a rather florid ministerial style. Newby, Pacific Palisades, Calif., to the author, September
                        10, 1957; interview with James P. Hughes, Cloverdale, Ind., July 24, 1957.
            
            
            At DePauw University, then a coeducational Methodist institution of about six hundred students, Beard
                    had a distinguished record as a student of history and political science, orator, debater, and
                    editor of the college newspaper. The Mirage, the student yearbook published in his
                    senior year, mentioned him in a dozen places and named him a member of the "Big
                    Five" along with two fellow undergraduates and two professors. His career was summarized in
                    college yearbook fashion, "Formerly editor of a country weekly; has achieved a national
                    reputation as a Prohibo-populistic orator; has studied much history with Dr. Stephenson."
                    Despite the obvious caricature, the Mirage presents a revealing picture of the
                    twenty-three year old senior as an aggressive nonconformist, who knew "the best methods to
                    be employed in handling a conservative faculty, of instigating revolts and of crystallizing and
                    directing public opinion." In a section devoted to an imaginary class meeting, the yearbook
                    gave this exaggerated version of Beard's iconoclastic oratory: 
                        The time has come, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come. The old traditions and fossilized
                            methods of the past must be smashed into smitherines and consigned to chaos. Let there now
                            be ushered in an era of unlimited, unqualified and untrammeled freedom! Away with a
                            moss-back faculty, moth-eaten orthodoxy, and give us true democracy! I move you that we
                            declare war upon all things that at present exist!25
                  
                    
            
            Several of Beard's classmates have testified to his reputation for
                    "radicalism" during his college years.26 Although DePauw
                    University was generally considered a stronghold of Republican orthodoxy, the effect of Charles
                    Beard's studies there was to make the young 
                        Henry County
                     Republican exceedingly skeptical of his inherited political faith. He spent only a
                    little more than three years, including two summer sessions, at DePauw, but these were the critical
                    years of the Populist ferment in the Middle West, Bryan's first candidacy for the
                    presidency, and the 
                        United States
                    ' venture into imperialism with the Spanish-American War. Against the
                    background of these eventful years must be placed Beard's 
                  
                     25
                            DePauw University Mirage of '99 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), no pagination.
                  
                     26 Thomas W. Nadal, 
                                Frankfort
                            , Mich., to the author, August 7, 1957; Raymond J. Wade, Bay View, Mich., to the
                            author, December 10, 1957; Orin DeMotte Walker, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., to the author, August 22,1957.
               
                     college studies in history and the social sciences, his debating,
                    oratorical, and editorial experience as marking points in his Indiana education where he began to
                    deviate from Republican conservativism.
            Charles Beard, who graduated in 1898 with the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy and a Phi Beta Kappa
                    key, majored in history with related work in sociology and political science, including
                    jurisprudence and international law. The rest of his college course consisted of English literature
                    and oratory, zoology, psychology, and two years of 
                        German
                    , which he chose instead of the classical languages which would have qualified him for
                    the A.B. degree.27 Although Professor Arthur R. Priest's courses in
                    debate and oratory certainly helped the young public speaker, who found them "without
                    equals in enabling students to do clear, logical thinking on any question,"28 it was Andrew Stephenson in history and James Riley Weaver in political science who had
                    the largest influence on Beard's youthful studies. Weaver, who was by all accounts a
                    remarkable teacher, left a career in the American foreign service to inaugurate the empirical study
                    of social science at DePauw. Using his own printed outlines instead of textbooks, he required his
                    students to read widely in the literature of social and economic reform, including the writings of
                    Marx as well as American advocates of the New Economics and the Social Gospel such as Richard T. Ely
                    of Johns Hopkins and the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . In a letter to the latter, Professor Weaver, a radical Republican in politics,
                    indicated his unorthodox economic views by declaring, "Since my return from 16 years of
                    consular service in 1885, I have been putting in my best licks to destroy the pernicious influence
                    of that old 
                        Manchester
                     school."29 It was apparently Weaver's suggestion
                    that sent Beard to Hull House and the slums of 
                        Chicago
                     in the summer of 1896.
            Unlike Weaver, a gifted amateur, Professor Andrew Stephenson was a product of the best professional
                    graduate training in the 
                        United States
                    , who completed his doctoral dissertation at Johns Hopkins University in 1891. Coming
                        
                  
                     27 Academic Record of Charles A. Beard, Registrar's Office,
                            DePauw University.
                  
                     28 DePauw Palladium, February 28, 1898.
                  
                     29 James Riley Weaver, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Ind., to Richard T. Ely, 
                                Madison
                            , Wis., January 1,1891. A photostat is in the DePauw University Archives; the
                            original can be found in the Wisconsin State Library.
               
                     to DePauw in 1894, he reinforced his colleague's
                    emphasis on the seminar method and eventually encouraged Charles Beard to continue his historical
                    studies abroad. To Stephenson, the "blank knowledge of facts" was a "mere
                    deposition of rubbish without cohesion."30 In addition to gathering and
                    classifying facts, the historical student must investigate the moving forces, the motives, and the
                    moral consequences. "Viewed in this light," he wrote, "history becomes
                    the crystallization of the endeavor of man to control his environment."31 It was this kind of teaching which led Beard to choose history for his major field of study
                    and to argue as editor of the DePauw Palladium for history as a required course
                    for students of political science, oratory, and literature.32 Stephenson, a
                    registered Democrat on a Republican campus,33 was a political liberal who was
                    interested chiefly in English constitutional history and taught it according to the Teutonic-origins
                    school, which his leading student later made a prime target of attack. That the influence of this
                    thesis persisted amid Beard's growing dissent is shown by the college oration he delivered
                    in his senior year in which he described how "the divine impulse of liberty, born in the 
                        German
                     forests and crystallized in centuries of English conflict, received a new
                    birth" in America.34 The more radical temper of Stephenson's
                    teaching was revealed, however, in the work of the "historical seminary" for
                    1897–1898, where Beard and other senior majors looked into "the origin and
                    adoption of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    " by "careful, comparative study of the sources."35 A tantalizingly brief paragraph inserted in the Palladium
                    during the progress of the seminar contains a hint that the apprentice historian may have found
                    there the seeds of his famous Economic Interpretation of the Constitution: 
                        The class in 
                                United States
                             Constitutional History is now investigating the original sources of American
                            Nation making. There have been several dangerous explosions of ancient 
                        
                           30 Andrew Stephenson, Syllabus of Lectures on
                                        European History (
                                        Terre Haute
                                    , Ind., 1897), v.
                        
                           31
                                    Ibid., vi.
                        
                           32 DePauw Palladium, December 20, 1897.
                        
                           33 Robert M. Stephenson, 
                                        Washington
                                    , D. C., to the author, October 10, 1957. Robert M. Stephenson is
                                    Professor Stephenson's son.
                        
                           34 DePauw Palladium, April 18, 1898.
                        
                           35
                                    Fifty-Ninth Year-Book of DePauw University (
                                        Greencastle
                                    , Ind., 1897), 43.
                     
                             theories, but no lives are recorded as lost—at
                            least so far in the work. We cannot predict for the discussions of the next few days.36
                  
                    
            
            Outside the classroom Beard was active in college oratory and debate, the arena in which political
                    progressives like William Jennings Bryan and Robert M. LaFollette had won their first victories.
                    DePauw, with a strong oratorical tradition, kept alive the memory of the persuasive voice of its own
                    Albert J. Beveridge, who had won the interstate contest in 1885 and was moving toward position and
                    power in the Republican party by the nineties. In a mock Republican convention in 1896, Charles
                    Beard seconded the name of ex-President Benjamin Harrison in "the most impassioned speech
                    of the evening," with the result that the convention chose Indiana's favorite son
                    over McKinley for the presidential nomination.37 While still a freshman, Beard
                    won the right to represent Indiana in the national prohibition oratorical contest in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , where he gained the second prize of fifty dollars.38 In the
                    primaries for the regular interstate contest the next year, however, he failed to win a place but
                    went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     anyway as cheerleader for the supporters of the DePauw representative.39 A newspaper report of his losing address revealed that he stressed both temperance and
                    economic reform, linking together "the evils that were wrought by rum and the rum
                    shop" with the "ill-used power of trust and monopoly."40
            
            In his last two years at college, Beard, who as a young instructor at 
                        Columbia
                     was to coach debate teams,41 represented DePauw on the
                    intercollegiate debating platform; as it happened, he argued for the more radical side of highly
                    controversial subjects of the day. In 1897 he helped defeat Earlham College by a speech
                    "rich in thought and splendid in delivery" on the negative of the proposition,
                    "resolved, 
                  
                     36
                            DePauw Palladium, February 7, 1898. In the 
                                Washington
                            's Birthday oration cited earlier, Beard praised highly the
                            Constitutional Convention of 1787, where "the great minds of the time met with
                            opposing political philosophy," and called the Constitution itself "the
                            grandest document ever wrought from the experience of men." Ibid., April 18, 1898.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Democrat, May 23, 1896.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., May 30, 1896.
                  
                     39
                            DePauw Weekly, January 19, 1897.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., November 17, 1896.
                  
                     41 Arthur W. MacMahon, "Charles Beard, the Teacher,"
                                Charles A. Beard: An Appraisal, ed. Beale, 213–214.
               
                     that the Employer shall not recognize any Union or Association
                    of the Employees."42 When Earlham returned the next year to avenge its
                    defeat, Charles Beard and his associates argued affirmatively for the income tax as "a
                    desirable part of a scheme of taxation for the 
                        United States
                    ." According to the Palladium, DePauw's opponents
                    won the debate largely by misquoting Professor Richard T. Ely against the federal income levy. The
                    members of the losing team immediately wrote to Ely for clarification and received a reply affirming
                    his stand in favor of the proposed tax. According to the newspaper account of the debate, Beard was
                    certain of his theory but found himself in the awkward position of defending the
                    "practicability of the income tax, a question about which there was evidently considerable
                    doubt in his own mind."43 The significance of Charles Beard's
                    debating role lies not only in the nature of the issues discussed, but also in his learning to apply
                    social and economic data from college classes and seminars to concrete issues of the day.44
            
            Some of Beard's early public speaking took place in the evangelical pulpit, as noted
                    earlier. In the spring of 1896 a 
                        Greencastle
                     newspaper reported that "Rev. Chas. A. Beard" spoke on
                    "Christ as a Man" in a small Methodist church near the college town.45 Having been elected an officer of the Y.M.C.A. in his freshman year at DePauw, Beard
                    was also a member of the "prayer band" which spent the Christmas holidays of 1896
                    in a preaching mission in nearby Martins-ville.46 One report states that he made
                    his famous visit to 
                        Chicago
                     during the next summer under the auspices of the Epworth League training school.47 By his senior year, however, Beard showed less personal interest in, and was
                    more critical of, organized religion. Remembering, perhaps, the latitudinarian volumes among his
                    grandfather's books which he had read as a boy, he lamented that no copy of Colonel Robert
                    Ingersoll's writings could be found in any of the libraries of 
                        Greencastle
                    .48 As editor of the DePauw Palladium in 1898 he
                    provoked a local controversy by protesting against 
                  
                     42
                            DePauw Weekly, January 19, April 13, 1897.
                  
                     43
                            DePauw Palladium, April 11, 1898.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., October 18, 1897.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Democrat, April 25, 1896.
                  
                     46
                            DePauw Weekly, January 5, 1897.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner Times, July 10, 1896.
                  
                     48
                            DePauw Palladium, October 18, 1897.
               
                     holding the annual revival meeting at the college. Doubting the
                    utility of religious revivals and suggesting that an explanation for them might be found in
                    "mental pathology," Beard pointed out that DePauw was a Methodist university but
                    not a "camp meeting." "Revival meetings," he added,
                    "may be alright in church, but they surely have no place in a modern institution of
                        learning."49
            
            Fortunately for our understanding of his intellectual development in college, Beard spoke his mind
                    vigorously in the weekly editorials he composed for the Palladium in his last year
                    at DePauw. An assistant editor of the DePauw Weekly the previous year, he was
                    chosen to head the staff of the new journal largely because of his earlier experience in publishing
                    the 
                        Knightstown
                    
                    Sun.50 When an anonymous letter appeared in the paper
                    criticizing the the editor's writings as "glittering generalities" in
                    imitation of "Ram's Horn proverbs and aphorisms," a loyal reader replied
                    that Beard was the "brainiest man" in college and suggested to the unknown critic
                    that "had he been personally acquainted with the editor, had he known him in class room and
                    debate, had he known the philosophy of life and effectiveness behind those editorials he would
                    hardly have called them imitations."51 In the first issue Charles Beard
                    promised strong editorial leadership. "It is our purpose to tell the truth, regardless of
                    opinions or consequences," he wrote. Asking for similarly plain-spoken contributions, he
                    added, "Express your sentiments fearlessly on any question—religious, social or
                    political—and let the world know that there are men in DePauw who can think deeply and
                    write in ‘words hard as cannon balls.’"52
            
            The young editor had a great deal to say about the vocation which he had already chosen for himself.
                    "The true scholar," he wrote in an early editorial, "does not seek truth
                    for truth's sake, but that he may pour it out into life's great current to uplift
                    and inspire a burden stricken humanity."53 Criticizing certain unnamed
                    members of the DePauw 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., March 14, 1898. Beard continued to comment editorially on the
                            advantages of reasonableness and common sense in religion. Ibid., March
                            28, 1898.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner Times, October 8, 1897.
                  
                     51
                            DePauw Palladium, November 8, 15, 1897.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., October 18, 1897.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., October 25, 1897.
               
                     faculty, he described the ideal professor as "full of
                    the spirit of youth."54 With a nod to some of his own college mentors,
                    he declared, "What a teacher is and not what he knows is the measure of his value as an
                    educator. A few dollars will buy an encyclopedia; the magic of personal influence cannot be
                        bought."55 He praised the seminar method as "one of the
                    best thought producers in the educational world" and predicted that the new scholarship
                    would revolutionize men's outlook upon the world. Beard went on to say, 
                        The critical and scientific schools which are beginning to dominate in every institution of
                            learning are fast bringing in a new regime of thought. With blasts of iconoclasm the new
                            methods are sweeping away old idols and superstitions. This is however the true method of
                            study and research. But one question now arises. What is to be the result of this unsettled
                            condition of affairs? We lay no claim to prophesy but we believe that an age of
                            thought-revolution is near at hand—a thought-revolution which will shake the
                            foundation of even rock-founded institutions. However, the world moves.56
                  
                    
            
            Since Beard's editorial pronouncements contain surprisingly little comment on politics, it
                    is difficult to trace the development of his political attitudes during his college years. He
                    arrived in 
                        Chicago
                     in the summer of 1896 too late to visit the Democratic National Convention and on his
                    return to Indiana reported cryptically that nearly all the working men of the city favored McKinley
                    and protection.57 Mary Ritter Beard, who was also at DePauw in those years, has
                    stressed Bryan's influence on her future husband.58 Beard undoubtedly
                    heard the silver-tongued Democratic candidate speak at a Green-castle rally in October, 1896, where
                    DePauw students, despite their predominantly Republican complexion, behaved with more dignity than
                    did the Yale boys on the occasion of the Great Commoner's appearance in 
                        New Haven
                     earlier in the year.59 That fall, moreover, Beard was on the staff
                    of the DePauw Weekly, which gave editorial support to former professor John Clark
                    Ridpath, the popular historian, who 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., November 15, 1897.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., November 1, 1897.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., March 7, 1898.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner Times, August 13, 1896.
                  
                     58 Mary R. Beard, The Making of Charles A. Beard,
                            14–15.
                  
                     59
                            DePauw Weekly, October 27, 1896.
               
                     ran for Congress on a combined Democratic-Populist ticket.60 Many years later, Charles Beard remembered the heated discussions about free
                    silver, the income tax, and other political issues which he and his Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
                    brothers engaged in at the time.61
            
            In April, 1898, popular clamor over the sinking of the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     and the outbreak of the Spanish-American War provided editorial ammunition for the young
                    college journalist. Soon after the declaration of war, while not directly opposing the use of force,
                    Beard attempted to moderate the war spirit on campus: 
                        How an intelligent, rational man can actually be anxious for war, with all its dire
                            consequences, is beyond comprehension. War may be a quick road to the heights of fame for
                            the brave and capable man, but it is one where he must mount over the bodies of his
                            comrades—it is a gory path to glory.62
                  
                    
            
            In the next issue of the Palladium he congratulated his fellow students upon the
                    "absence of the cheap patriotism and jingoism which have been so prevalent at many other
                    institutions," but added that at the proper time "our boys will march bravely to
                    the front without any flourish of trumpets or blazing bonfires." As a matter of fact, fifty
                    students had formed a volunteer company and marched off to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where they eventually discovered that their services were not needed.63 Beard, remaining calm, argued that there was no reason "at the present status of
                    the war" for students to quit their classes and rush to the colors. 
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., November 10, 1896; Clifton J. Phillips, "John Clark
                            Ridpath, DePauw Teacher and Historian," DePauw Alumnus, XXII
                            (December, 1957), 3.
                  
                     61 In an interview years later with a representative of Phi Gamma
                            Delta, Beard remembered discussing free silver, the income tax, and other political issues
                            with fraternity brothers in 
                                Greencastle
                            . "What a crowd of stark individualists we were," he recalled.
                            "Every fellow was a fighting personality. We were all full of steam and
                            conceit." James A. Farrell, "America's Eminent
                            Historian," DePauw Alumnus, IV (January, 1940), 4.
                  
                     62
                            DePauw Palladium, April 25, 1898.
                  
                     63 I have not been able to discover when Beard himself volunteered for
                            service, as related in Herring, Harper's Magazine, CLXXVIII (May,
                            1939), 642, and Mary R. Beard, The Making of Charles A. Beard, 15.
                            Apparently he was not among the company described above, according to the recollections of
                            two fellow students. Newby to the author, Pacific Palisades, Calif., September 18, 1957;
                            Wilbur Helm, 
                                Evanston
                            , Ill., to the author, October 14, 1957.
               
                     Neither a pacifist nor an imperialist, he kept his balance in a
                    time of nationalistic enthusiasm by reminding his readers: 
                        The duties of peace are as sacred as those of war. The courage of the citizen must be no less
                            than that of the soldier, and those who remain behind preparing themselves for the broader
                            duties of private life are pursuing as commendable a course as those who have gone to the
                            field. Should the tide of war turn against us, and the call for large numbers of soldiers be
                            renewed then it should be the duty of the student to don the trappings of war and fight for
                            the country.64
                  
                    
            
            By his last year at college, Charles Beard saw himself not as a political actionist, but as a
                    hard-headed student of society who looked to penetrating scholarship and historical research for the
                    answers to social problems. Although he gave editorial support to the well-known preacher of the
                    Social Gospel, George D. Herron, who visited 
                        Greencastle
                     in the spring of 1898,65 Beard mercilessly attacked the socialist
                    lecturer, J. Stitt Wilson, for stirring up "the masses by a vision of an unattainable state
                    of society." Citing the failure of utopian social experiments, he argued that
                    "political economy based upon actual facts and not ideals" showed that
                    "communistic visions are only the nightmares of disturbed dreamers."66 It was the scholar's responsibility, whether in religion or in politics, Beard
                    thought, to dig down deeply into the facts in order to enlighten and liberate the popular mind.
            In the last issue of the Palladium under his editorship, with 
                        Oxford
                    , Ruskin Hall, 
                        Columbia
                    , and a long career of iconoclastic historical work before him, he summed up his Indiana
                    education and set forth his vision of the "truth that makes men free": 
                        There is but one way to know the truth, and that is not a golden one. It is fraught with toil
                            and sacrifice and perhaps ridicule. The seeker of the truth must be fearless. He must not be
                            afraid to enter the innermost holy of holies, and to tear down the veils of superstition
                            that hang about every human, and so called divine institution. Folly, hero-worship and
                            sentiment have woven about every institution webs of mysticism and superstition….
                            Around the forms of the church people cling with the tenacity of drowning men, as though to
                            question the creeds of Wesley or Calvin, would be profanity. Politicians bow down before the
                            constitution of the 
                        
                           64
                                    DePauw Palladium, May 2, 1898.
                        
                           65
                                    Ibid., April 11, May 2, 1898.
                        
                           66
                                    Ibid., January 17, 1898.
                     
                            
                            
                                United States
                             as though it were sacred while history tells us that this crowned constitution
                            with its halo has been the bulwark of every great national sin—from slavery to
                            monopoly. It is the truth that makes men free. If the truth tears down every church and
                            government under the sun—let the truth be known. And this truth only will be
                            known when men cease to swallow the capsules of ancient doctors of divinity and politics,
                            and when men begin to seek the truth in the records of history, politics and religion and
                            science. Let the new school triumph!67
                  
                    
            
            Beard's Indiana education, though it did not make him the Populist which some of his fellow
                    students at DePauw and one recent writer thought him, certainly loosened his ties with the orthodox
                    Federalist-Whig-Republican tradition in which he had been brought up. Raised in a family that was
                    free-thinking in religion if not in politics, Charles Beard learned at a 
                        Quaker
                     school and a Methodist college to become skeptical of all orthodoxies and to use the
                    tools of historical analysis to investigate and question such venerated institutions as the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . During these youthful years, as in much of his later life, Beard preferred the role of
                    iconoclast to that of advocate of a particular political or economic creed. As an independent-minded
                    student, editor, and debater at DePauw University, he capped his Indiana education and prepared for
                    the intellectual ferment of 
                        Oxford
                     and 
                        Columbia
                     by discovering his enthusiasm for iconoclastic scholarship and controversy which he was
                    never afterwards to lose.
            
               
                  67
                        Ibid., May 17, 1898. In the same issue of the Palladium,
                        editor Beard announced with some pride that the student journal had paid all its bills and was
                        on a firm financial foundation.
            
         
         
         
         
            Charles A. Beard's Recollections of 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana
            
                    Edited by Clifton J. Phillips
                
            The two letters printed below were written by Charles A. Beard late in life in answer to requests for
                    information about his early years at home and school in 
                        Henry County
                     from residents of his two Indiana home towns, 
                        Spiceland
                     and 
                        Knightstown
                    . Besides giving these biographical details, the letters reveal much of the flavor and
                    atmosphere of late nineteenth-century rural Indiana. The first, and longer, of the two preserves
                    many colorful reminiscences of Beard's childhood which he related for the 
                        Spiceland
                     Centennial in 1938. Unable to be present at the anniversary celebration, Beard wrote
                    this long and interesting account of his boyhood in 
                        Spiceland
                     during the 1880's, telling of his school days at the Friends' Academy
                    and describing some of the amusements a modest 
                        Quaker
                     village afforded a young boy growing up on his father's farm nearby. In it the
                    author discloses a somewhat nostalgic attitude toward his Hoosier upbringing, as he contrasts the
                    isolation and simplicity of that time and place with the "wars, hatred and intolerance of
                    this age." Belittling the technological progress which he and Mrs. Beard heralded so
                    triumphantly in the last chapter of the first edition of their Rise of American
                        Civilization as well as in other writings, the famed historian stresses the lack of
                    "gadgets" and the primitive means of transportation of his youth. Most of all,
                    however, he tells how much he learned from his teachers in the small but excellent 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy and from the Friends' services which his parents, who were not
                    practicing Quakers, required him to attend. The entire letter is a noteworthy display of affection
                    for the simple virtues of agrarian America.
            The shorter 
                        Knightstown
                     letter, written a decade later and only a few months before his death in 1948,
                    documents Beard's earliest years in Grant City, an unincorporated community in Wayne
                    Township, where his father had settled on a small farm before moving to 
                        Spiceland
                    . Although detailed reminiscences are lacking, this letter relates something of his life
                    as a high school student and a youthful editor and  publisher in 
                        Knightstown
                     from 1891 to 1895, when he owned and operated a weekly newspaper with his older
                    brother, Clarence H. Beard.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [August, 1938]
                                
                        To my friends and the young generation of 
                                        Spiceland
                                    :1
                        
                        It is a pleasure to learn that the town is celebrating its centennial and I beg the
                                    privilege of adding my tribute to the occasion. In making this little contribution,
                                    I am naturally moved to indulge in reminiscences. That, you will concede, is at
                                    least fitting in this particular occasion.
                        
                           
                                        Spiceland
                                     had not passed the half-century mark when my parents moved to the town
                                    in order that their children might receive an education at the Friends'
                                    Academy and the whole family enjoy the privilege of living in a community of a rare
                                    spirit. It was, as I recall, in the year 1880.2 I was then about
                                    six years old. The house in which we lived, just west of the village, now lies,
                                    perhaps appropriately, in ashes, its very foundations sinking in the earth.
                        My earliest memories, of course, are associated with our nearest neighbors, Mr. and
                                    Mrs. Elisha Ratcliff, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Deem, and Mr. and Mrs. Jonas Hodson, all
                                    good neighbors, industrious, prudent, and helpful.3 In time of
                                    need their thoughtfulness never failed. In fact, co-operation was the chief
                                    characteristic of the community life. In season and out, the neighbors were always
                                    helping one another, in the harvest fields, at threshing, in time of sickness and
                                        
                              
                                 1 Reprinted from the Souvenir Booklet of
                                                the 
                                                    Spiceland
                                                 Centennial (
                                                Spiceland
                                            , Ind., 1938), 15–17. The centennial historian,
                                            Loring A. Eilar, reports that the original letter, which was dated sometime
                                            in August, 1938, was destroyed by fire. Loring A. Eilar, 
                                                Spiceland
                                            , Ind., to the author, December 25, 1957.
                              
                                 2 According to one writer, the Beards moved to 
                                                Spiceland
                                             in 1881. B. F. Bowen (pub.), Biographical Memoirs
                                                of 
                                                    Henry County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Logansport
                                            , Ind., 1902), 232.
                              
                                 3 The Ratcliffs, Hodsons, and Deems were families who
                                            lived on farms adjoining the Beard homestead, a short distance west of the
                                            village of 
                                                Spiceland
                                            . Elisha Ratcliff was a leading figure in the local Society of
                                            Friends and a member and later president of the Academy Board. Sadie Bacon
                                            Hatcher, "A History of 
                                                Spiceland
                                             Academy, 1826–1921" (Indiana
                                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI, No. 2; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1934), 147.
                           
                                     tragedy.4 Life was hard, but
                                    as I recall it all through the mist of time it seems beautiful against the wars,
                                    hatred, and intolerance of this age; and the best of the old days I should like to
                                    recover, for America and for the world.
                        We did not then have electric lights, nor automobiles, nor refrigerators, nor
                                    telephone [s], nor airplanes. A round-trip to 
                                        New Castle
                                    , ten miles away, with a work horse in the shafts was an all-day
                                    journey, laborious for man and beast. A round trip to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on the railway from Dunreith was a positive excitement, and the hero of
                                    such an Odyssey was an object of admiration among old and young. We could then
                                    scarcely dream of any person's traveling three hundred miles an hour in an
                                    airplane, although we had borrowed Jules Verne's books from the library and
                                    read his tales with eager zest on long winter evenings by the fireplaces.
                        Nor am I inclined at this age to the opinion that men and women who enjoy, or suffer
                                    along with, all the new gadgets are any better than their ancestors. A fool is still
                                    a fool whether he travels four miles an hour in an ox-cart or four hundred in an
                                    airplane. Wisdom is not measured by speed. Nor is gentleness exhibited in gadgets.
                                    The virtues which do honor to human nature and hold neighbors, communities, and
                                    nations together are not born of a multitude of things. In saying this, I do not
                                    mean to celebrate the cause of poverty but rather that of moderation in all things.
                        If my memory serves me right, it was Miss Ella Williams5 who led
                                    me into the mysteries of letters. I remember her well. She was both gentle and
                                    stern. She beguiled us every day after the noon hour by reading some pages from a
                                    classic story, and she rapped my knuckles with a ruler when she caught me shooting
                                    paper wads at Isaac Pate across the room. In the Academy, Mrs. Hannah Davis reigned
                                    for a while after the death of her noble husband, Clarkson Davis.6
                                    
                              
                                 4 This passage describing frontier cooperation and
                                            neighborliness is echoed and amplified in Beard's article,
                                            "The Frontier in American History," New
                                                Republic, XCVII (February 1, 1939), 359–362.
                              
                                 5 In another place Beard has described Miss Ella
                                            Williams, his first teacher in the grades, as "‘a
                                            cultivated, gentle woman who knew how to keep the peace without waging
                                            war.’" Quoted in Hatcher, "A History of 
                                                Spiceland
                                             Academy," 152.
                              
                                 6 Clarkson Davis was superintendent of the Academy
                                            from 1863 until 1882, the year before his death. His widow, Mrs. Hannah
                                            Davis, whom Beard praises so highly, continued to teach in 
                                                Spiceland
                                             Academy until 1890, when she undertook graduate studies and
                                            finally became professor of literature at the University of 
                                                North Dakota
                                            , where she died in 1898. Ibid.,
                                            149–150.
                           
                                     She seemed both omniscient and indefatigable.
                                    She traveled widely in Europe and brought back great news of strange lands. She
                                    loved good books. She organized lecture courses and gave us an opportunity to hear
                                    distinguished speakers from various parts of the country and from many walks of
                                    life. In her spirit and tradition, Thomas Newlin carried on.7 He
                                    taught me the rudiments of American history and the elements of physics, with equal
                                    proficiency in my youthful eyes. By Terrell Wilson8 I was
                                    introduced to the English classics. Even now I can hear his melodious voice reading
                                    The Ancient Mariner. Through his ministrations I became acquainted with Wordsworth,
                                    Ruskin, Carlyle, and the great men of old. John Parker9 taught
                                    us the Latin tongue and displayed so great a love of it that he could scarcely wait
                                    for us to learn the conjugations, so eager was he for us to read Cicero and Virgil
                                    for ourselves.
                        The Academy had two debating societies and I was a member of one, the name of which I
                                    have forgotten.10 In the room set aside for us we had our own
                                    library of choice books, and there of Friday nights we assembled to solve the
                                    burning problems of the hour. Shall the tariff be reduced? Is fame to be preferred
                                    to great riches? Should the Federal government regulate railway rates? Local option
                                    or prohibition? With much eloquence and gusto the fledglings displayed their wisdom
                                    and learning.
                        On First Day came Sabbath school and the meeting. Well I remember sitting on the hard
                                    benches, my feet far from the floor, while the elders sat in high places. No music.
                                    No song. Just the silence of meditation; unless, forsooth, the spirit moved some
                                    aged saint to deliver a discourse, 
                              
                                 7 Thomas Newlin, a graduate of 
                                                Spiceland
                                             Academy, succeeded Davis as superintendent, a post he held
                                            until 1892. He was later president of Whittier College in 
                                                California
                                            . Ibid., 150–151.
                              
                                 8Terrell Wilson, who taught many years at the Academy,
                                            was a local resident well remembered in 
                                                Spiceland
                                             for his strict school discipline, a beautiful tenor voice, and
                                            his refusal to wear an overcoat at any season of the year. Loring A. Eilar, 
                                                Spiceland
                                            , Ind., to the author, November 27, 1958.
                              
                                 9 John Parker I have been unable to identify further.
                                            Mrs. Hatcher lists him among the Academy instructors after 1863. Hatcher,
                                            "A History of 
                                                Spiceland
                                             Academy," 156.
                              
                                 10 There were actually three literary societies at the
                                            Academy: the Lucernians, for girls, and two boys' clubs, the
                                            Crescent and the Glisco. Ibid., 140. A 
                                                Spiceland
                                             resident recalls the young Beard's abundant use of
                                            polysyllabic words in his schoolboy oratory, especially his difficulty with
                                            the pronunciation of "hypocrite" on one occasion. Mrs. W.
                                            A. Hood, 
                                                Spiceland
                                            , Ind., to the author, November 19, 1957.
                           
                                     usually brief, always terse, generally ending in
                                    a quotation from the Scriptures. Although my parents were not Quakers,11 they thought it good for me to attend the Friends' services.
                                    Doubtless it was. At all events, there I became acquainted with the majestic dreams
                                    of the Jews, the merciful teachings of Jesus, and the sonorous roll of the King
                                    James version.
                        Work and meditation were broken by play according to the season. Baseball, football,
                                    skating, sleighing, and sledding were my favorites. I remember especially what we
                                    called "the battle of the walnuts." North of the Academy, across
                                    the road, beyond the graveyard, was a walnut grove, and after the autumn frosts fell
                                    the ground was covered with walnuts.
                        We boys made up teams, fitted shields made of barrel heads to our arms, arrayed
                                    ourselves in battle line, and let the walnuts fly. What heroic charges and frightful
                                    carnage! But nobody was hurt, although hands and faces were black with battle
                                    stains.
                        Among the other diversions were stage plays given by local talent, supplemented
                                    occasionally by wandering troupes, in Hoover's Hall.12
                                    To that hall also came the politicians, candidates for the House of Representatives,
                                    of [or?] the State Senate. Political speeches were often followed by torchight
                                    parades, the firing of anvils, and the shooting of rockets. On Decoration Day we
                                    assembled to lay flowers on the graves of those who had fought in the cause of the
                                    Union. For fairs and circuses we had to go far away to 
                                        Knightstown
                                     or 
                                        New Castle
                                    . After all, Quakers were not enamored of horse racing and blaring
                                    merry-go-rounds. Yet it would be a mistake to assume that all Spicelanders were
                                    saints in those far-off times. Many were; but most of us failed to measure up to the
                                    high standards of the elders. Perhaps in their youth those elders had sowed their
                                    wild oats too.
                        
                           
                              11 About Charles' father, William H. Beard, an
                                        early biographer wrote: "In religion he is liberal in his views, but is
                                        not a member of any church society, and yet is liberal financially in his
                                        contributions to the support of all the local churches." Bowen, Biographical Memoirs of 
                                                Henry County
                                            
                              , 232.
                           
                              12 Hoover's Hall was located in a two-story brick
                                        building, still standing on the southeast corner of Pearl and Main streets in
                                        Spice-land and now occupied by the Glass Novelty Company. To reach the hall it
                                        was necessary to climb to the second story by an exterior fire escape stairway.
                                        A few years after Beard's time, the main floor was used for the
                                        Academy's first basketball contests. Loring A. Eilar, 
                                            Spiceland
                                        , Ind., to the author, November 27, 1968.
                        
                        
                        Once started on this course, I could go on indefinitely, like the brook13 near the Academy, but your time and my time have limits. So I close
                                    with affectionate regards to my old friends among the living, with a toast to the
                                    memories of the precious dead, and a godspeed to the rising generation. May the sons
                                    and daughters be stouter and better than the fathers and mothers!
                        
                                    Sincerely and faithfully yours,
                                    CHARLES A. BEARD
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              New 
                                    Milford
                                 , Conn.,
                           
                                    July 17, 1948.
                                
                        Dear Mr. Kirkpatrick:14
                        
                        In replying to your kind letter of the 13th, I must depend entirely upon my memory,
                                    for our family home near Spice-land was destroyed by fire long ago and with it went
                                    all of the family records and my father's splendid library. So, as I shall
                                    indicate, in this report to you I am a bit uncertain as to a few dates and events.
                        I was born in Wayne township, north of 
                                        Knightstown
                                     on November 27, 1874. My earliest memories are of child life in Grant
                                        City15 where my father was a contractor and builder. In or
                                    about 1880 my parents moved to a small farm near 
                                        Spiceland
                                     in order that their children might have the advantages of education at
                                    the Friends' Academy. Even then 
                                        Knightstown
                                     was our main "trading" center and we had relatives
                                    and friends there. I completed, as I recall, the last year of my high school work at
                                    the 
                                        Knightstown
                                     Academy, from which I was graduated in 1891 or 1892. The date you 
                              
                                 13 This was the Brook Bezor, which flows past the
                                            Academy and the walnut grove Beard describes in his letter.
                              
                                 14 Reprinted from the 
                                                Knightstown
                                            
                                            Banner, July 23, 1948. Ed Kirkpatrick, then the assistant
                                            publisher of the Banner, had written to Beard asking for
                                            his recollections of 
                                                Knightstown
                                            . The original letter is in the possession of Mr. R. T. Mayhill,
                                            editor and publisher of the 
                                                Knightstown
                                            
                                            Banner. R. T. Mayhill, 
                                                Knightstown
                                            , Ind., to the author, December 16, 1957.
                              
                                 15 Grant City, a small community in Wayne Township,
                                            five miles north of 
                                                Knightstown
                                            , was founded in 1868 by Jacob Green, a Civil War veteran and an
                                            ardent admirer of his wartime commander. Bypassed by the railroad, Grant
                                            City failed to prosper, and its population soon dwindled. George Hazzard,
                                                Hazzard's History of 
                                                    Henry County
                                                , Indiana, 1822–1906 (2 vols., 
                                                New Castle
                                            , Ind., 1906), II, 929–930.
                           
                                     may be able to discover by examining the records
                                    of your Academy.16
                        
                        Shortly after my graduation, my father bought the 
                                        Knightstown
                                    
                                    Sun and presented it to my brother, Clarence, and me. For three or
                                    four years we were publishers and editors of the Sun. In 1895 I
                                    left 
                                        Knightstown
                                     to enter De Pauw University. Subsequently my brother sold the Sun and bought a daily and weekly in 
                                        Newcastle
                                    .17 During my summer vacations I worked on those
                                    papers, until my graduation from De Pauw in 1898. In the late summer of that year I
                                    left Indiana for 
                                        England
                                     and at 
                                        Oxford
                                     University began my long graduate studies in history.18 My short and simple annals since that year you can find in Who's Who.
                        Shortly before my departure for 
                                        England
                                    —I think it was at the commencement exercises of 1898, the 
                                        Spiceland
                                     Academy conferred upon me a diploma of graduation. Hence I take pride
                                    in being a graduate of both academies.
                        My life at 
                                        Knightstown
                                     as a school boy, editor, and publisher I recall with pleasure. In my
                                    imagination I can see the town as it was in 1895 as clearly as if it were now spread
                                    out before me in the valley below my hillside home in 
                                        Connecticut
                                    . I remember with respect and affection the people of 
                                        Knightstown
                                     in my times there. To the surviving ancients who have not forgotten me
                                    please give my warm regards, and to the youngsters who know me not, my good wishes
                                    for all the years to come.
                        
                                    Yours sincerely,
                                    Charles A. Beard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  16 According to the records of the 
                            Knightstown
                         High School, formerly called 
                            Knightstown
                         Academy, Beard graduated with the class of 1891. L. E. Rogers, Superintendent of
                        Schools, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind., to the author, December 17, 1957.
               
                  17 Clarence and Charles Beard began publishing the 
                            Knightstown
                        
                        Sun on August 1, 1891, and sold it in July, 1895. At that time Clarence bought
                        the 
                            New Castle
                        
                        Press and a weekly which he renamed the 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Republican. In 1897 he sold both papers and entered the practice of law in 
                            New Castle
                        . Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            
                  , II, 1090–1093; Bowen, Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Henry County
                            
                  , 411–412. According to Beard's letter above, Hazzard
                        is in error in ascribing purchase of the 
                            New Castle
                         journals in 1895 to both brothers rather than to Clarence alone.
               
                  18 For Beard's own account of his experiences at 
                            Oxford
                        , see Burleigh Taylor Wilkins (ed.), "Charles A. Beard on the Founding of
                        Ruskin Hall," Indiana Magazine of History, LII (September, 1956),
                        277–284.
            
         
         
         
         
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     on the Eve of Conflict
            
                    Ward Baker
                    *
                
            In 1860 
                        Mishawaka
                    , Indiana—lying along both sides of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River, four miles east of 
                        South Bend
                    —was a prosperous manufacturing and trading center. In 1832 bog iron deposits
                    had been discovered in northern Indiana. The next year Alanson M. Hurd from 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               , built a blast furance on the south bank of the river at the foot of
                    a small rapid and plotted a town which was named the 
                        St. Joseph
                     Iron Works.1 The furnace was successful and soon another town was
                    plotted. On February 17, 1838, the General Assembly incorporated the small towns in this
                    vicinity—Indiana City on the north side of the river and the 
                        St. Joseph
                     Iron Works on the south bank, together with all lots and additions laid out on either
                    side of the river—into one town called 
                        Mishawaka
                    .2
            
            Construction of a dam at the head of the rapids and mill races on both sides of the river provided
                    excellent water power sites.3 Heavy timber and rich farm land in the vicinity
                    was a source of raw materials for manufacturing and processing. Transportation by steamboat and
                    keelboat via the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River gave access to a Lake Michigan port at Benton Harbor, 
                        Michigan
                    .4The Vistula Road, connecting 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Toledo
                    , passed through the village,5 and in the fall of 1851 the 
                  
                     *Ward Baker is a teacher of history at 
                                Mishawaka
                             High School.
                  
                     1
                            
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Recorder's Office, 
                                South Bend
                            , Ind., Deed Record A, p. 337; also 
                                Mishawaka
                            , City Engineer's Office, Map of 
                                St. Joseph
                             Iron Works, in Plat Book of City of 
                                Mishawaka
                            , p. 1
                  
                     2 Indiana, Local Laws (1837–1838), Chap.
                            CCXXXIII, 410.
                  
                     3 "Synopsis of the History of the 
                                Mishawaka
                             Dam and the 
                                Mishawaka
                             Hydraulic Company," Prepared from the records of the 
                                Mishawaka
                             Hydraulic Company, which are in the possession of the Engineer's
                            Office of the 
                                United States
                             Rubber Company, 
                                Mishawaka
                            , Ind.; 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Free Press, October 14, 1837: Indiana State Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), quoted in 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register (
                                South Bend
                            ), October 17, 1845; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, July 26, 1855; 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, August 14, 1858.
                  
                     4 Otto N. Knoblock, "Early Navigation of the 
                                St. Joseph
                             River" (Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            Vol. VIII, No. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 190–200.
                  
                     5 Indiana, Laws of the State of Indiana
                            (1832–1833), Chap. CLIII, 201–202, notes that there was authorized the
                            location of "a state road from the 
                                South Bend
                             in 
                                St. Joseph county
                            , by the way of the mouth of 
                                Elkhart
                             River in 
                                Elkhart county
                            , and the county seat of 
                                Lagrange county
                            , to the east line of this state, in the direction of Vistula, on the Maumee Bay
                            in the state of 
                                Ohio
                            ." According to John B. Stoll (ed.),
               
                     Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad, which connected 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , entered 
                        Mishawaka
                    .6 Men with money to invest settled in the village, and new
                    industries were started. In the late fifties steam engines, cast iron pipe, cast iron stoves,
                    agricultural implements, edge tools and cutlery, coffins, chairs, furniture, wagons, carriages,
                    leather goods, barrel staves, woolen goods, flour, and lumber were manufactured and shipped to
                    outside markets.7
            
            The two parts of 
                        Mishawaka
                     were connected by a covered bridge. The most important street on the north side was
                    Bridge, which ran from the river due north to the village limits. Intersecting Bridge at right
                    angles soon after it crossed the river was Joseph Street. Most of the buildings on the north side
                    were private homes, but along Bridge Street were some business establishments, notably the
                    blacksmith shop of William Oliver, located on the southeast corner of Bridge and Joseph. Further
                    north along Bridge was the Holy Angels Catholic Church, School House No. 2, and at the village
                    limits the graveyard. On the south side of Joseph, west of Bridge, on a high bluff overlooking the
                    river was a grove of trees known as the Grove, a popular place for picnics.
            The main part of the village was situated on the south side. Factories occupied the low land along
                    the river bank and the race, while private residences and business houses were along the streets to
                    the south. Vistula Road, which was named Second Street inside the village limits, ran along a
                    plateau some four hundred yards south of the river. Second Street was the most important east-west
                    street. In this part of the village (the original 
                        St. Joseph
                     Iron Works) the streets were of checkerboard design with Main, the important
                    north-south 
                  
                     An Account of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 From Its Organization (
                                Dayton
                            , 1923), 50: "The Vistula Road, one of the earliest in the County, was
                            laid from Vistula, 
                                Ohio
                            , through 
                                Mishawaka
                             and 
                                South Bend
                             to join the 
                                Chicago
                             road just west of 
                                South Bend
                            ."
                  
                     6 The St. Joseph Valley Register, October 2, 1851,
                            reported that "the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana cars are now running
                            regularly to 
                                Mishawaka
                            , and it is expected will extend their trips to 
                                South Bend
                             tomorrow or next day."
                  
                     7 The 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, March 5, 1859, and the St. Joseph Valley
                            Register, March 17, 1859, both stated that the value of manufacturing in 1858 was:
                            flour, $125,000; iron castings, $30,000; wagons and carriages,
                            $120,000; agricultural implements, $20,000; woolen cloth,
                            $15,000; cabinetware, furniture, and coffins, $15,000; edge tools,
                            $5,000; lumber, $50,000; boots, shoes and leather goods,
                            $15,000; barrel staves, $12,000; saddles and harness,
                            $10,000. The total value of manufactures was $407,000.
               
                     street, starting at the blast furnace on the river bank and
                    running due south to the village limits.8
            
            During the late 1850's the business section of the town centered near the intersection of
                    Main and Second streets. On the southeast corner stood the Milburn House, a local hotel popular with
                    travelers and used by the local people for parties and meetings. East of the Milburn House stood the
                    Methodist church, and on the south side of Second, a block west of Main, was the Presbyterian
                    church. On the east side of Main and north of Second was the Town Hall, which housed the fire
                    department on the ground floor, while the upper story—called the Wigwam—was
                    used for political and social gatherings. Opposite the south end of Main Street stood a large,
                    two-story, red brick building called the Institute Building, where the 
                        Mishawaka
                     Academic and Normal Institute classes were held. This was a Free school for the
                    children of 
                        Mishawaka
                     and a Select school for advanced study and teacher training, supported by the village,
                    with an enrollment of over two hundred students from 
                        Mishawaka
                     and surrounding area.9 Lining the streets close to the intersection
                    were the stores of various merchants. The buildings were of wood, with wooden awnings extending over
                    the plank sidewalks. The unpaved streets were dusty in summer and almost impassable because of mud
                    and water in the winter. Until the anti-hog ordinance was passed by the town board in 1857, hogs and
                    cattle roamed at will throughout the town. Construction of sidewalks, hitching rails, watering
                    troughs, and crosswalks at the street intersections were recent improvements made by the town
                        board.10
            
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        , City Clerk's Office, Town Board Records, 1845–1892, Vol. I,
                        123; Report of survey of town of 
                            Mishawaka
                         by M. W. Stokes, 
                            St. Joseph County
                         surveyor, August 4, 1858; Stokes Survey Map, in Plat Book of City of 
                            Mishawaka
                        , 10.
               
                  9 Many notations in the 
                            Mishawaka
                         Town Board Records, I, during the late 1850's show that financial support
                        for this school came from taxes levied by the town board. Hiring of teachers, textbook
                        adoptions, and courses of study were approved by the board. The 
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, August 28, October 1, 1859, and August 25, 1860, has articles
                        lauding this school and commending the citizens of 
                            Mishawaka
                         for their support. H. Beth Bingham, "History of the 
                            Mishawaka
                         Public Schools, 1834–1946" (
                            Mishawaka
                         School City, 1946), 4, (Mimeographed), indicates that "the regular term
                        was six months, with three months of select school. The Institute had a fine reputation, and
                        students came from distances to attend classes here."
               
                  10 The 
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, 
                                St. Joseph
                             Valley Register, and the 
                            Mishawaka
                         Town Board Records, I, have many items describing 
                            Mishawaka
                         during this period.
            
            
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     in 1860 had a population of 1,488, including two colored people.11
                    It had been settled largely by Northerners with a considerable sprinkling of New Englanders and
                    their descendants.12 During the forties opportunities for work had attracted
                    many 
                        German
                     and Irish immigrants to the community,13 and later when
                    Know-Nothingism was popular in the village, these foreign people were subjected to discrimination
                    and some persecution.14 No other evidence of social classes existed except those
                    dictated by wealth, education, and type of occupation. The village had some wealthy but many poor
                    families. The family of the poor 
                        German
                     Catholic immigrant did not associate socially with the family of the wealthy Protestant
                    mill owner, but in civic affairs and in entertainment and cultural areas there was association and
                    cooperation rather than class snobbery.
            With self-reliance and pride in their community the citizens made for themselves a rich and varied
                    social life within the village. Church socials, charity bazaars, dances, concerts by the Sax Horn
                    Band, 
                        German
                     Band, and Martial Band were popular. Serenading, picnics, sleigh rides, and skating
                    were for the more active citizens, while older people enjoyed the debates of the literary society,
                    lectures, and political gatherings. The Odd Fellow and the Masonic lodges were active. A public
                    library of over five hundred volumes and a McClure's Workingmen's library provided
                    reading materials. Seven saloons were licensed for business, despite the objection of a strong Total
                    Abstinence Society, whose members were pledged to work for outlawing liquor throughout the state.
                    The volunteer fire department was an elite organization. Efficient in fighting fires in the village,
                    Union Company No. 1 inflated local pride by winning drill and water pumping contests with fire
                    companies from the surrounding towns. Nationally known entertainers, musicians, and touring 
                  
                     11 U. S., Bureau of the Census, Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1860, Population of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 125.
                  
                     12 Lois Kimball Mathews, The Expansion of New 
                                    England
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1909), 196–206, map, 236; Alice L. Judkins, "
                                Mishawaka
                             Has Romantic Past—Brockport Colony Plays Important Part in
                            City's History," 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Tribune, Sunday May 15, 1932, describes the migration of thirty-two people
                            from Brockport, 
                                Monroe County
                            , 
                                New York
                            , to 
                                Mishawaka
                             in 1837.
                  
                     13 Reverend C. A. Suelzer, A Century of Catholic Faith in 
                                    Mishawaka
                                
                      (
                                Mishawaka
                            , 1948), 20.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 16; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, May 22, 1856.
               
                     theatrical companies gave performances before large audiences at
                    the town hall and the Institute building; moreover, the villagers acquired a reputation for being
                    gracious hosts for the many conventions, teachers' institutes, church meetings, and
                    agricultural gatherings held in 
                        Mishawaka
                    .15
            
            Party affiliation and political thinking of the voters in 
                        Mishawaka
                     in the decade preceding the Civil War were influenced by the slavery controversy. Local
                    town board elections, held each year on the first Monday in May, were not contested along party
                    lines; but in township, county, state, and national elections, the voters expressed their preference
                    for either the Whig or Democrat tickets. In 1848 dislike of the Mexican War and slavery caused
                    bolting from the two parties, and a Free Soil party was organized in the village.16 Taylor won the local township by a plurality of seven votes over Cass—210 to
                    203; Van Buren, the Free Soil candidate, received 84 votes.17 In 1849 the Whigs,
                    supported by dissatisfied Democrats and Free Soilers, won the county elections.18 But in 1852, for the first time in history, the Democrats won the majority of votes in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , and they also elected Dr. Norman Eddy, of 
                        Mishawaka
                    , to Congress from the Ninth District.19
            
            Several factors influenced the voters in 
                        Mishawaka
                     during the political upheaval in the mid-1850's that led to the formation of
                    the new Republican party. The relative calm which had followed the "final"
                    solution of the slavery question by the Compromise of 1850 had been ripped apart by the 
                        Kansas
                    -Nebraska Act of 1854. The Whigs, following their defeat in 1852, had little hope for
                    success in the future, and many were convinced that a strong Northern party should be formed to
                    check the sectional hostility of the Solid South.20 In 
                        South Bend
                     Schuyler Colfax, the editor of the 
                  
                     15 The 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise and the 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register throughout the fifties have many accounts of these
                            activities.
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, July 21, 1848.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., November 8, 1848.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., August 9, 1849.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., December 2, 1852.
                  
                     20 Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The Changing
                                Fortunes of a Political Idol (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1952), 47–48. See Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise
                            of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XIII (September, 1917), 217, for "finality"
                            of the 1850 Compromise: see ibid., 219–221, on importance of 
                                Kansas
                            -Nebraska Act; and ibid., 226–228, on formation of
                            Northern party. 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, May 18, 25, 1854.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Valley Register, was rapidly becoming a person of importance in state and
                    national politics, and this astute politican saw that it would be good politics to lead the people
                    in the formation of such a Northern political party.21 The 
                        Mishawaka
                     paper at first followed a policy of neutrality in politics. In 1856 its name was
                    changed from the 
                  
                            Mishawaka
                         Free Press to the 
                            Mishawaka
                         Enterprise, and in 1858 when Archibald Beal became the new owner and editor,
                    the Enterprise became a staunch supporter of Colfax and the Republican party.22
            
            An Anti-Nebraska meeting in 
                        Mishawaka
                     on February 18, 1854, passed resolutions against the 
                        Kansas
                    -Nebraska Bill and the extension of slavery into the territories.23
                    On July 17, 1854, a large People's party meeting in the village endorsed the platform and
                    the candidates of the People's party convention which had been held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 13.24 In the fall elections Colfax, the People's
                    party nominee, won the congressional election from Democrat 
                        Norman
                     Eddy.25 The new party, first called Republican locally in 1856,
                    continued to draw strength from Northern Democrats, Know-Nothings, Abolitionists, and others who
                    were opposed to the stand of the Democrats on the slavery question. During the intervening years
                    before the outbreak of the war, 
                        Mishawaka
                     and 
                        St. Joseph County
                     remained in control of the Republican party.26
            
            By 1858 the nation was rapidly drifting into the "Irrepressible Conflict," but 
                        Mishawaka
                     citizens were not too concerned over the great question of state sovereignty versus the
                    supremacy of the federal government. Economic conditions were good; and despite the financial crisis
                    of the late fifties, money was plentiful. The menacing sectional controversy did not quench the
                    optimism of the people, and there 
                  
                     21 Smith, Schuyler Colfax, 48; Zimmerman, Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (September, 1917), 227.
                  
                     22 The Democratic 
                        
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Forum (
                                South Bend
                            ) for October 15, 1859, in speaking of the 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise complained. "But taking the stilts of neutrality, and
                            walking in the dim shadow of a demoralizing press, they soon transformed their hardy and
                            adventurous yeomanry into the most intensely bewildered and bedarkened subjects of the
                            blindest leadership of the opposition."
                  
                     23
                            
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, February 23, 1854.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., July 27, 1854.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., October 19, 1854.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., October 16, 1856, November 6, 1858, gives election returns.
               
                     was progress, expansion, and continued prosperity rather than
                        retrenchment.27 News that the Atlantic cable had been successfully completed
                    inspired a celebration which ended with a grand torchlight parade to the center of town. Squire
                    Harris E. Hurlbut was called on, and he responded with an impromptu speech, which according to the
                        Enterprise, was one of his "happiest hits."28 In September a stabbing affair by some 
                        South Bend
                     "boys" after a political rally at the Institute building gave local
                    citizens something to discuss. The consensus was that the next time a candidate spoke in the village
                    the "boys" from out of town should stay home, or at least not get drunk and try to
                    cause a disturbance.29 News items in the local paper included a report of the
                    "Death of Cora 
                        Virginia
                    , only daughter of D. H. and Mallie A. Smith, aged one year and eight days"; a
                    note that the editor had received a large squash and a half bushel of nice potatoes; an announcement
                    that the "friends of Reverend Nelson Kellogg have erected for him a new barn in place of
                    the one that was burned"; and an account of the marriage by "Reverend William S.
                    Birch, of Mr. Thomas Milburn to Miss Mary E. Luce."30
            
            The discovery of gold at 
                        Pike
                    's Peak had men dreaming of the wealth they could find at the
                    "diggin's." Older men—some of whom had had the experience of
                    the California gold rush in 1850—advised against going, but this did not keep young men
                    from the adventure. Several parties left for the gold fields31 and laid out
                    claims there to the wealth they hoped to find, while others who were more easily discouraged
                    returned to the village richer only in their experiences in the West. Some never returned but
                    continued on to California and made their homes there when they found things not to their liking in
                    Colorado Territory. At times throughout the spring of 1859, from five to ten big wagons passed
                    through 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., May 21, 1857; 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, August 14, 1868; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Forum, June 19, 1858.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, August 21, 1858.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., September 25, 1858; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, September 23, 1858; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Forum, September 22, 1858.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, October 2, 1858.
                  
                     31 The 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, April 7, 1860, stated that eighty-five men from 
                                St. Joseph County
                             had gone to Colorado to search for gold. The 
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, March 24. 1860, lists the names of twenty-one men who left the
                            village for the gold fields during the spring of 1859.
               
                    
                    
                        Mishawaka
                     enroute to the gold fields. Merchants made money selling supplies to the many outfits
                    that started from or passed through the village. Interest of the 
                        Mishawaka
                     citizens in the gold rush remained high throughout the year 1859.32
            
            Elaborate plans had been made in 1859 for a Fourth of July celebration, and everything was in
                    readiness when disaster struck close by. Heavy rains had weakened a railroad culvert two miles west
                    of town, and during the night of Monday June 27, the east bound train crashed into the rain-swollen
                    creek. Sixty-eight of the one hundred and fifty passengers were killed or injured. All the
                    unidentified dead and most of the injured were brought to 
                        Mishawaka
                    , and the facilities of the small community were gladly given for the relief of the
                    suffering. Most of the victims were taken to the Milburn House, but various private homes were
                    turned into temporary hospitals. Fifteen bodies that were not immediately identified by relatives
                    were given a mass funeral in the graveyard. The Fourth of July celebrations were abandoned by the
                    citizens in respect to the suffering of the injured.33
            
            Although the people in the village were not entirely unaware of what was happening to their country,
                    war was far from the thoughts of the average man and woman. The topics for debate by the Literary
                    Society throughout 1858 and 1859 do not indicate that the villagers saw a long and terrible war
                    rapidly approaching. "Who did more for the service of mankind, 
                        Columbus
                    , who discovered America, or George 
                        Washington
                     who defended it?" and "Which will best promote the interests of this
                    Union, a protective Tariff or Free Trade?" were among the subjects debated before the
                        society.34 Such topics had little of the spirit of the
                    "Irrepressible Conflict" in them.
            Throughout 1859, A. Eberhart and Company received large contracts to build government wagons. During
                    1858 this company had built some six to seven hundred of their famous "
                        Utah
                    " wagons for Colonel Johnson's expedition against the Mormons.35 The villagers did not know where 
                  
                     32
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, January 29, February 5, 26, March 19, 26, April 9, October 1,
                            1859.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., July 2, 1859; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, July 7, 1859; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Forum, July 2, 1859.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, March 26, June 25, 1859.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., February 26, 1859; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph County
                                 Forum, April 10, 21, 1858.
               
                     the wagons manufactured in 1859 were to be used, but they did
                    know that the activity of A. Eberhart and Company was increasing the prosperity of the village. The
                    company produced one hundred wagons for Uncle Sam in eight days, and the citizens were justifiably
                    proud of a "shop, where a stick of timber can be taken in at one end and come out at the
                    other a complete wagon."36
            
            But one of the sparks that would touch off the "Conflict" had been struck. The Enterprise for October 22, 1859, carried a brief story describing John 
                        Brown
                    's raid on the government arsenal at Harpers Ferry. It was a straight news
                    story without editorial comment.37 By the time of the next issue details of the
                    raid had reached 
                        Mishawaka
                    , and the citizens had had ample opportunity to discuss what had happened in Virginia
                    and to form some opinions about John 
                        Brown
                    's attempt to start a slave uprising. The Enterprise for
                    October 29 had a long story explaining the John 
                        Brown
                     affair in detail. The editor probably was expressing local sentiments when he
                    editorialized that "John 
                        Brown
                     was a madman who should be punished for his treason," and that the whole thing
                    was just a "strange freak of the brain of a madman who had created such
                        excitment."38 The editorial gave no hint that the editor thought
                    the affair at Harpers Ferry would be a spark to help start a war.
            The increasing tension between the North and the South during 1859 did not, on the surface, disturb
                    the established ways of life in the village. Nevertheless, leaders of business and politics, as well
                    as those who thought about the problems of the nation, perhaps sensed that a crisis was near. For
                    example, the Literary Society debated the timely subject, "What have the people of the
                    North to do with the institution of slavery?" The debates were reported in the Enterprise. All the debaters agreed that the North had a right to interfere in the
                    question of slavery, but some felt compelled to elaborate their views. Squire Theodore Cowles, a
                    lawyer, deplored the recent Dred Scott decision because it established a new policy for slavery in
                    the territories. Dr. William Butterworth stated the view that the Negro would never be the equal of
                    the white man, but he agreed with the new Republican party 
                  
                     36
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, March 19, 1859.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., October 22, 1859.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., October 29, 1859.
               
                     by insisting that slavery should never go further than its
                    existing borders and went on to say that it was the duty of the North to prevent its spread. George
                    Milburn, the prominent wagon manufacturer, while agreeing with the various speakers that the North
                    should prevent the spread of slavery, also felt that there was a higher law than the Constitution.
                    He stated that if statutory law violated his conscience he would not obey that law even though it
                    had the support of millions of people.39
            
            Local citizens continued debates and discussions regarding slavery and secession throughout 1860. At
                    a meeting of the Literary Society held at the Wigwam on December 3, George Merrifield read a very
                    "able and elaborate essay" on the question of southern secession. He assumed the
                    position that a state had no right to sever her connection with the Union, and that the federal
                    government was fully warranted in maintaining the supremacy of the Constitution and laws by force of
                    arms if necessary. Mr. Dempster Beatty, Theodore Cowles, and Harris Hurlbut generally agreed with
                    Merrifield; Hurlbut, however, went still further in his remarks. He expressed the belief
                    "that the States are sovereignties and as such have the same right to withdraw from the
                    confederacy that they had to join it. The commission of treason by a State, in its sovereign
                    capacity, was, in his opinion an impossibility." Beatty and Cowles dissented from these
                    views. Cowles was not in favor of rash measures; he would await an "overt act";
                    then, "he would hang the traitors as high as Haman." The states had delegated
                    certain powers to the federal government, and once delegated, the states had no right to resume
                    these powers, and for them to assume that right was "incipient treason."
                    Beatty's speech was a strong and forceful stand against the right of secession by the
                        states.40
            
            Several weeks later, Dr. Butterworth presented a paper before the Literary Society that was,
                    according to the Enterprise, of a "very conservative character."
                    He advocated the 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., January 7, 14, 1860.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., December 8, 1860. The political beliefs of these men changed during
                            the late 1840's and the decade of the 1850's. In 1848 Cowles, Butterworth,
                            and Hurlbut were Whigs, while Merrifield, who had supported the Democrats in the early
                            1840's, was a member of the Free Soil party. In 1854 all were members of the
                            People's party—Merrifield was elected state representative. After 1856
                            all were active supporters of the Republican party.
               
                     preservation of the Union by reasonable concessions and
                    compromises if possible, but if this would not save the Union, then force should be used. Most other
                    members differed with him. In general they maintained that no concessions were due; and that since
                    none would be accepted by the southern states, except at the sacrifice of principle, it was of no
                    use to make any such attempt. Everyone seemed to agree, however, that the Union must be
                    "preserved at all hazards," and that the North should "awake to the
                        issue."41
            
            Hoosiers have normally taken their politics and their right to decide political questions seriously,
                    and in this respect the people of 
                        Mishawaka
                     were certainly Hoosiers. During the political campaign of 1860, mounting interest and
                    tensions existed. The campaign was a political contest for the control of governmental power; yet
                    the Union, states' rights, and possible war were at stake. The editor of the Enterprise explained on May 5, 1860, that: "Never in our recollection has there
                    been such a rush for the daily papers by the citizens so that they could find out the result of the 
                        Charleston
                     Convention."42 Many columns of the weekly Enterprise were devoted to accounts of the Democratic convention, held at
                            
                  Charleston, South
                            Carolina
               , during April, and to national political issues. These
                    stories and accounts were generally printed without comment and without editorial effort to
                    influence readers by inserting local issues.43
            
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     was well represented at the Republican convention held during May in 
                        Chicago
                    . Over one hundred of its citizens, including Editor Archibald Beal of the Enterprise, were in attendance. Beal "doubted very much if there was another town
                    no larger than ours, which turned out an equal number." The editor described the excitement
                    and the political maneuvering of the convention, ending his story with "
                        Lincoln
                     was nominated amid heavy applause."44 Apparently the
                    majority of citizens approved of 
                        Lincoln
                    's nomination. At a large ratification meeting: 
                        Milburn Hall was crowded with a large crowd to ratify the nomination of 
                                Lincoln
                             and Hamlin. Speeches were made 
                        
                           41
                                    Ibid., January 12, 1861.
                        
                           42
                                    Ibid., May 5, 1860.
                        
                           43
                                    Ibid., April 28, May 5, 1860.
                        
                           44
                                    Ibid., May 19, 1860.
                     
                             by Hurlbut, Merrifield and Thomas, while outside the
                            cannon boomed and a bon fire of tar barrels and dry goods boxes burned and lighted up the
                            otherwise quiet town. Stirring notes of fife and drums added to the scene. Early in the
                            evening Nelson Ferris led a company in from the south part of the township on horse back and
                            when opposite the Milburn House they halted and gave three cheers for 
                                Lincoln
                             and Hamlin—this started off the festivities—the pleasant
                            smiles on the faces of almost everyone showed that the nominations were accepted by
                                everyone.45
                  
                    
            
            In June, Beal of the Enterprise, along with other editors of midwestern newspapers,
                    attended the convention of Northern Democrats at 
                        Baltimore
                     as a guest of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and Ohio Railroad. Beal reported the convention fairly and at length. Noting the
                    importance of the inability of the Democratic party to survive the split over slavery, he pointed
                    out the significance of this split to the nation and to the Republican party. "The most
                    probable conclusion now of the whole matter is a split in the Convention, and the nomination of
                    Douglas by the North and of another candidate by the South."46
            
            In the campaign during the summer and fall of 1860, the enthusiasm of the new Republican party
                    overwhelmed the badly demoralized and sectionally torn Democratic party. Nevertheless, two stronger
                    tickets never opposed each other in an Indiana campaign. Republican nominees were: Henry S. Lane for
                    governor, Oliver P. Morton for lieutenant governor, Benjamin Harrison for reporter of the supreme
                    court, and Schuyler A. Colfax for Congress from the Ninth District; and the Democratic nominees
                    were: Thomas A. Hendricks for governor, David Turpie for lieutenant governor, and Daniel W. Voorhees
                    for Congress from the Seventh District. The candidates from both parties were leaders of ability and
                    promise. In later years all these men occupied positions of importance in the federal and state
                    governments, bringing honor and distinction to themselves and to Indiana. Lane and Hendricks as well
                    as Morton and Turpie traveled widely throughout the state to bring the issues before the people in
                    joint debate. Little bitterness and almost no personal issues were present in the Indiana
                        campaign.47
                    
                        Mishawaka
                    
                    
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., May 26, 1860.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., June 23, 1860.
                  
                     47 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana: From its Exploration
                                to 1922 (3 vols., 
                                Dayton
                            , 1923), II, 657–662.
               
                     Democrats conducted a good campaign, and many of their old
                    leaders appeared in the community, speaking forcefully and well for their candidates and platform.
                    These addresses were well received by the citizens.48 It was, however, the
                    youthful Republican party that provided most of the local political enthusiasm, since it felt that
                    its chances of winning control of the state and national governments for the first time were very
                    good and since it was further inspired by the leadership of the Rail Splitter.
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     Republicans were well-organized, and they worked hard for their victory in 1860. An
                    unofficial campaign company called the Rail Splitters—whose uniforms consisted of
                    overalls, overshirt, chip hat, maul, and wedge—was formed.49 The men
                    of the village and of Penn Township, which included 
                        Mishawaka
                    , organized the 
                        Mishawaka
                     Wide Awake Club to arouse enthusiasm for Republican candidates. They marched and
                    drilled, carried lighted torches, and, with similiar organizations from neighboring towns, appeared
                    at numerous Republican rallies.50
            
            Though the Democrats had several meetings and rallies in 
                        Mishawaka
                    , the Republicans always seemed to be either having or planning political rallies. One
                    of the largest was held in 
                        Mishawaka
                     on August 24 when Schuyler Colfax, of nearby 
                        South Bend
                    , who was Republican nominee for Congress from the Ninth District, headed the list of
                    speakers. On the day of the rally: 
                        At an early hour processions commenced pouring in headed by martial bands of music and
                            floating banners, inscribed with the names of the Republican nominees, and especially that
                            of Colfax, so that by the time of the speech there were 1,500 to 2,000 people in town. Mr.
                            Colfax addressed them from an east window of the Methodist Church—ladies
                            occupying the inside and the men the outside on the east. The speech of Mr. Colfax was a
                            grand one, the best we ever heard him make. He held the crowd for about two hours and was
                            then followed by H. Kressmann of 
                                Chicago
                            .51
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  48
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, August 11, 18, September 8, 29, 1860.
               
                  49
                        Ibid., August 18, 1860.
               
                  50
                        Ibid., July 21, September 1, 8, 1860; 
                     
                                St. Joseph
                             Valley Register, August 16, September 6, 1860; Zimmerman, Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (September, 1917), 405–407, has a good
                        account of the organization of Wide Awake clubs and 
                            Lincoln
                         Maulers and their activities during the campaign of 1860.
               
                  51
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, August 25, 1860.
            
            
            The Republicans, using what had been traditional methods of American political parties to arouse
                    enthusiasm, played upon the emotions of the people. According to the Enterprise: 
                        In the evening was the grandest time of all. The 
                                Elkhart
                             Wide Awakes (a fine company) about eighty strong, came down and were escorted
                            into town by the 
                                Mishawaka
                             Wide Awakes, numbering about sixty and the 
                                Lincoln
                             Rail Splitters, about thirty five in number. All marched out and met the 
                                South Bend
                             Wide Awakes, nearly seventy five in number, when one grand procession formed,
                            which marched through our streets making a most beautiful display. They went through with
                            the drill, exhibiting some dexterity in handling torches, and cuts, mauls and wedges, after
                            which took place the speaking. Mr. Kressmann held forth eloquently in the Wigwam in 
                                German
                            , and Messers. Merrifield and Hurlbut, of 
                                Mishawaka
                            , Anderson, Colfax and Harper, of 
                                South Bend
                            , Shuey and Kilbourne from 
                                Elkhart
                            , on the corner outside. After the speaking was over another grand procession of
                            Wide Awakes marched through the streets52
                  
                     Not all was Republican enthusiasm, however, for the Enterprise reported
                    that 
                        some unprincipled person or persons spent their time during the speaking last evening in
                            cutting halters and harness. Such an act is meaner than stealing sheep, and we are glad that
                            steps are being taken to find out who the guilty parties are and bring them to justice.53
                  
                    
            
            Meetings and rallies by the Republicans continued. The 
                        German
                     Republican Club was not overlooked. In September, Albert Lange, Republican nominee for
                    state auditor, and Charles Coulon, a prominent 
                        German
                     and former Democrat from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , gave speeches in 
                        German
                     before the 
                        German
                     Republican Club.54 On September 1, the Wide Awakes were requested
                    to meet at the Institute building to plan a trip to Republican rallies in 
                        South Bend
                     and at Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    .55 On September 22 they met again and resolved "hereafter
                    until the time of election to hold our regular drill and business meetings every Monday
                        evening."56
            
            
               
                  52
                        Ibid.
               
                  53
                        Ibid.
               
                  54
                        Ibid., September 15, 1860; Mildred C. Stoler, "The Democratic Element
                        in the New Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XXXVI (September, 1940), 204–205, tells of the wooing of the 
                            German
                         voters, many of whom were Democrats, by the Republicans in 1860.
               
                  55
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, September 1, 1860.
               
                  56
                        Ibid., September 22, 1860.
            
            
            Tuesday, October 9, finally came and the state elections were held. The Enterprise
                    gleefully announced: 
                        Last Tuesday will be long remembered in the political history of this country for
                            inaugurating a great change, especially in the politics of Indiana. The entire Republican
                            State Ticket in this State, as well as in Ohio and Penn. has been elected. Commencing with
                            our own township there was a Republican majority of 247. Our county gave about 700
                            Republican majority. The State went Republican by about 15,000 majority.57
                  
                    
            
            With the state now Republican, the task of making sure that 
                        Lincoln
                     carried it in the federal election in November was made easier, yet no chances could be
                    taken. Once again Captain James Houghton of the Wide Awakes called his men to the task.
                    "One more rally and the victory is ours," he told them. This final rally was
                    planned for Monday night, November 5, with Colfax speaking at the Wigwam, and the Wide Awakes from
                            
                  Mishawaka, South
                            Bend
               , and Harris 
                        Prairie
                     gathering for a grand torchlight procession.58
            
            The editorial in the Enterprise the week preceding the federal election carried a
                    nonpartisan appeal for all men to vote. The political rallies, speeches, and general humbug of the
                    campaign was about over, and the time of fateful decision had arrived. The owner and editor of the
                    village newspaper was perhaps thinking of this decision to be made by the people, when he penned a
                    forthright appeal for all men to vote: 
                        Reader, next Tuesday will end the Presidential contest of 1860 and decide in part, if not
                            altogether, the complexion of this government for the next four years and perhaps for all
                            coming time. Every man has a duty to perform, a duty to himself and to his country. That
                            duty, on next Tuesday, will be to cast a freeman's vote for one of the four
                            candidates before the people for the highest office in their gift, who, you may have made up
                            your mind from a careful examination of his record and the principles he professes, will
                            seek to promote the best interests of the people of these 
                                United States
                            . All of these men are worthy, no doubt, in some particulars for the office for
                            which they are named, but they do not all advocate the same principles, nor the same plan of
                            government, but in some cases those directly opposite; therefore choose well between them.
                            Don't vote this way or that way because father did or does, but vote intellectually
                            [intelligently?] for yourself. There cannot but one of the four candidates be elected, and
                            no doubt some of their knees are beginning to tremble over 
                        
                           57
                                    Ibid., October 13, 1860.
                        
                           58
                                    Ibid., November 3, 1860.
                     
                             the result, nevertheless vote for the one you consider
                            the best man even if he should not happen to be on the beating side.59
                  
                    
            
            Election day brought a decisive victory for the Republicans. Their victory in Indiana was complete, 
                        Lincoln
                     winning the state by a majority of 5,924 over his three rivals. 
                        St. Joseph County
                     was carried by an 846 vote majority.60 The banner for the election
                    story in the Enterprise was: "THE GREAT CONTEST OVER; LINCOLN ELECTED:
                    ENTIRE NORTH FOR ‘OLD ABE.’"61
            
            The Republicans, having won a great victory, celebrated with a "Jollification"
                    Monday night following the election. Banners were strung across the streets and they were hung from
                    the principal buildings. A large pen, made from fence rails, was erected in the street in front of
                    the Wigwam. It was filled with pine boxes, dry wood, and tar barrels, and all was made ready for
                    burning. Toward night the people started to gather, and soon the crowd was so large that the Wigwam
                    could not hold them. A platform was erected on the street corner nearby, and enthusiastic addresses
                    were delivered by Colfax, Harper, and Clark, of 
                        South Bend
                    , as well as by Merrifield and Hurlbut, of 
                        Mishawaka
                    . The 
                        Mishawaka
                     Wide Awakes, the 
                        Lincoln
                     Rail Splitters, the Brass Band, and the Martial Band enlivened the proceedings with
                    music, and a street parade was lighted by the large bonfire. The "Jollification"
                    ended with a grand supper at the Milburn House.62
            
            But even the sober thinkers of the village, as elsewhere throughout the North, could not clearly see
                    the impact on the Union of the Republican sectional victory and the election of 
                        Lincoln
                    . 
                        Lincoln
                     had taken pains to assure the South that he was no abolitionist, that he would
                    guarantee slavery where it existed, and that he was only opposed to its extension into the
                    territories. Furthermore, the Democrats had control of both houses of Congress and, at least for the
                    next two years, could effectively block any steps taken by the Republicans against southern
                    interests. There was, however, widespread agreement among the southern political leaders that the
                    election of 
                        Lincoln
                     was a threat to southern property and that the North contemplated an attack on the
                    South's basic institution. The Republican party had been founded upon the assaults 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid.
                  
                     60 Esarey, History of Indiana, II,
                            662–665.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, November 10, 1860.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., November 17, 1860; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, November 15, 1860.
               
                     upon this institution, and the personal opinions of 
                        Lincoln
                     did not reassure the Southerners.63 War was not inevitable, but the
                    sectional character of the Republican party, together with the quick action by the Secessionists to
                    overcome the moderate elements in the South, made it increasingly difficult for the new
                    administration to bridge the growing gulf between the sections.64
            
            War between the states was imminent, yet the residents of 
                        Mishawaka
                     did not seem to realize that it was near. They were concerned, during the last weeks of
                    1860 and the early months of 1861, with commonplace events in a midwestern village. During December
                    and January they sought suitable homes for orphan children from 
                        New York
                     Children's Aid Society. A committee composed of George Milburn and Harris E.
                    Hurlbut was appointed to see if homes could be found for the children, and by the latter part of
                    January places had been found for most of them.65 On the night of February 15,
                    the Catholic church caught fire, and despite heroic efforts to save it, the church and most of the
                    furniture burned. There was much talk and excitement, for the priest, Father Henry Koenig,
                    immediately stated that the church had been set on fire by an incendiary.66
                    Several days later, however, Father Koenig stated in an "Expression of Thanks" to
                    the town—printed in the Enterprise—that he had been mistaken
                    and that the fire had been started by an overheated chimney.67 In April exciting
                    events in the town included the exhibition of "wild men to be shown at Milburn
                    Hall" and the serious injury of the son of Mr. Joseph Garrow who was kicked in the face by
                    a horse.68
            
            Meanwhile, the suffering of the people in Kansas Territory caused by a prolonged drought resulted in
                    relief efforts. A committee was formed, composed of John Niles, John Thomas, George Milburn, Albert
                    Hudson, and Austin Sherwood to take subscriptions and gather goods and money to help the Kansans. By
                    February the citizens of 
                        Mishawaka
                    
                    
                  
                     63 William B. Hesseltine, The South in American
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 374–375.
                  
                     64 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 155, stresses the sectional split in Indiana; Hesseltine, The South in American History, 375–377.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, December 29, 1860, January 12, 26, 1861.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid.,, February 16, 1861; Suelzer, A Century of Catholio
                                Faith in 
                                    Mishawaka
                                
                     , 18.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, February 23, 1861.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., April 13, 1861.
               
                     had sent $135 worth of boots, shoes, and clothing,
                    and $100 in cash to help relieve the suffering.69
            
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     citizens were not indifferent or ignorant of the great and exciting developments taking
                    place in the nation. A great number of them subscribed to out-of-town newspapers, and although the
                    news was a little stale when the papers arrived, the readers got a confused picture of the country
                    drifting into a Civil War.70 The Enterprise, as usual,
                    editorialized on national affairs and printed excerpts from out-of-town papers. On December 22,
                    1860, the editor told of the secession of 
                        South Carolina
                    ; on December 29 he wrote again about the Secession Convention at 
                        Charleston
                    , and the news that Fort Moultrie had been abandoned by the federal forces.71 On January 5, 1861, the Enterprise printed an excerpt from
                    the 
                        Charleston
                    
                    Mercury on "Harbor Defense at 
                        Charleston
                    " and stated in an editorial that President Buchanan had changed his mind about
                    Fort Sumter. "It is about time, we think, for him to do something to save the country from
                        ruin."72 On January 12, an editorial gave an account of the Star of the West being fired on in 
                        Charleston
                     harbor; and this was followed on February 2, with a story from the 
                        New York
                    
                    World, "Why Fort Sumter Held Its Fire When the
                    ‘Star’ was Fired On."73
            
            During February accounts appeared of the journey of President-elect 
                        Lincoln
                     to 
                        Washington
                    . Editorializing on 
                        Lincoln
                    's speech in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the editor wrote, "He had no idea of making war upon the South or interfering
                    with her institutions, but the public property must be preserved and the laws executed at all
                        times."74 On February 23 there was a story telling of the
                    inauguration of Jefferson Davis at 
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               , which quoted Davis as stating,
                    "Our separation from the Union is complete. No compromise, no reconstruction can now be
                        entertained."75
            
            On March 2 the editor defended Mr. Lincoln's night trip into 
                        Washington
                     and gave editorial support to Colfax's 
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., November 17, 1860, February 2, 1861; 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, February 7, 1861.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, March 5, 1859, and the 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Valley Register, March 17, 1859, stated that the total number of
                            newspapers and other periodicals regularly received at the 
                                Mishawaka
                             Post Office was 1,626. Of these 10 were dailies, 30 semi-weeklies, 1,200
                            weeklies, 300 monthlies, and 6 quarterlies.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Mishawaka
                            
                            Enterprise, December 22, 29, 1860.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., January 5, 1861.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., January 12, February 2, 1861.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., February 16, 1861.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., February 23, 1861.
               
                     candidacy for postmaster general.76
                    
                        Lincoln
                    's inaugural was printed in full and the editor commented: 
                        It is generally regarded, we believe, as an able document, possessing Union sentiments. Mr.
                            Douglas speaks in its praise and Mr. Wigfall likes it, but we leave our readers to judge of
                            its merits for themselves without further comments.77
                  
                    
            
            Following 
                        Lincoln
                    's inauguration, Fort Sumter received considerable attention. An Enterprise editorial stated: 
                        It seems to be the prevailing opinion at present that Major Anderson will be recalled, and
                            Fort Sumter given up to the Secessionists. General Scott advises it as a military necessity,
                            for it cannot be re-enforced without a fight, great loss of life, and the use of all the
                            army. Besides the Government is not prepared for war and the Secessionists are.
                        Whatever the policy of the Government may be, will be known soon, for a recent dispatch from
                            Major Anderson states he has but fifteen days provisions, and the Government must re-enforce
                            him or order his withdrawal. The latter would be very humiliating, but it may be the best
                            course to take.78
                  
                    
            
            The news stories were confusing during the first week in April. Some told of a willingness to let the
                    Southerners have Fort Sumter because there was no desire to start a war, while others stated that
                    Major Anderson was to be reinforced at Fort Sumter, and that there was great activity at the naval
                    yards where the ships were being fitted out to carry supplies and reinforcements.79 On April 13, the Enterprise printed dispatches from the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, 
                        New York
                    
                    Post, and the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune that told of the crisis. All were of the same tone—bloodshed
                    was inevitable. The local editor again wrote: 
                        The news of the week has been of so contradictory a character [sic] that it is almost
                            impossible to express a decided opinion as to the result. Everything however, seems to
                            portend the approach of a crisis in Southern affairs, and a conflict between the 
                                United States
                             forces and those of the Southern Confederacy appears to be inevitable.
                        In our opinion, a few days will settle the question, whether the Union is really to be
                            dissolved and henceforth there are to be two rival nationalities within its boundaries, or
                            whether the honor of the old flag is to be maintained and the country remain one and
                                undivided.80
                  
                    
            
            The news of the fall of Fort Sumter was received at 
                        Mishawaka
                     on the morning of April 15, and the response of 
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., March 2, 1861.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., March 9, 1861.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., March 16, 1861.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., April 6, 1861.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., April 13, 1861.
               
                     Mishawakans to its fall was immediate and enthusiastic. It was
                    as though they had been waiting, along with the rest of the people of the North, for the cause
                    célebrè that had been presented to them by the action of the seceders. Waiting
                    and uncertainty had passed, the time for a declaration of principle and for action had arrived. At
                    the Town Hall on Monday evening, April 15, citizens assembled and proceeded to form a permanent
                    organization and to appoint committees to formulate resolutions supporting the federal government.
                    George Milburn was made chairman of the permanent organization, and he appointed Squire Hurlbut,
                    George Martling, and Squire Cowles as a committee on resolutions which submitted the following:
                        
                        Whereas, War has actually commenced by the act of those who have arrayed themselves in
                            Rebellion against our common country—
                        Resolved, That we hereby express our sympathy with, and determination to support the
                            Government in putting down this Rebellion to the full extent of our ability.
                        Resolved, That we regard it the duty of every citizen, regardless of former party ties,
                            associations or platforms to rally at his country's call, and assist in maintaining
                            her sovereignty.
                        Resolved, That this meeting approve the act of the Government in endeavoring [sic] to sustain and succor the troops in Fort Sumter—we approve of the
                            call of the President upon the country to rise and maintain its sovereignty.
                        Whereas, This Government was established by those who pledged their lives, their fortune and
                            their sacred honor to the maintenance of the principles which lie at its
                            foundation—
                        Resolved, That we hereby pledge our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor in defense of
                            that Union and that Flag thus bequeathed unto us81
                  
                    
            
            These resolutions were adopted unanimously, but some men wanted action, not
                    "resolves" and "whereases"; however, as patriotic emotions
                    quickened, men rose to make speeches and offer additional resolutions. George Merrifield wanted
                    immediate action, and he proposed the resolution that the citizens of Penn Township forthwith raise
                    and organize an infantry company to be tendered the federal government. Dr. William Butterworth
                    resolved that a "crisis has now arrived when every man here and elsewhere must take one of
                    two sides—for the Government or for its enemies." George Milburn believed as
                    Butterworth did and suggested the rope for "traitors in our midst," while John
                    Niles spoke of the 
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., April 20, 1861.
               
                     glory of his ancestors at Bunker Hill and said he would fight
                    against all traitors. Albert Judson arose and offered his personal estates if necessary in support
                    of the government. These motions and resolves were unanimously adopted amid deafening cheers and
                    rounds of applause. It was late when the meeting finally adjourned.82
            
            The people met again on Tuesday evening, April 16, to enroll a company of volunteers. Before this
                    business could be undertaken, George Milburn introduced a resolution calling for a committee of
                    three to take "the proper steps to form an Aid Society, for the purpose of rendering the
                    necessary assistance to the families of such of those who volunteer." George Milburn,
                    Harris Hurlbut, and John Thomas were appointed to that committee. With this business taken care of,
                    the book was opened for volunteers. As the men arose and volunteered for enlistment, the gathering
                    gave each a long and loud burst of applause and cheers. Twenty men enlisted and Captain James
                    Houghton was invited to drill the volunteers the next afternoon.83
            
            On Wednesday evening, April 17, there was still another meeting to continue the work of changing the
                    town from peace to war status. George Milburn, chairman of the Committee of the Aid Society,
                    reported that over $1,500 had been subscribed, to be "paid on demand, pro rate,
                    for the assistance of those families of volunteers who might be in need of aid." A
                    committee of Hurlbut, Robert 
                        Montgomery
                    , and Barnet, Byrkit was appointed to take subscriptions, make assessments, and to see
                    to the equitable disbursement of the funds collected. Fifteen additional men enlisted, and Captain
                    Henry Loring, who had taken charge of the volunteers in the village, announced that fifty-five men
                    had volunteered in 
                        South Bend
                     and that they and the men from 
                        Mishawaka
                     would form a full company. He requested that all volunteers meet with those from 
                        South Bend
                     on Thursday for drill and to elect officers. It was moved and adopted "that
                    the volunteers' way be paid to 
                        South Bend
                     and that they be paid out of the subscription fund for all time lost while drilling
                    before they entered the National service." Before adjournment, the standing committee was
                    delegated the power to convene future meetings84
            
            A telegram was sent to Governor Morton on Wednesday, tendering the services of the 
                        Mishawaka
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    
                    
                  
                     82
                            Ibid.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid.
               
                     volunteers. They were accepted and ordered to leave for 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Friday, April 19.85 During Thursday more men volunteered for the
                    company, making a total of forty-two. These men with the fifty-five from 
                        South Bend
                     formed a full company and elected the following officers: Andrew Anderson, Jr., of 
                        South Bend
                    , Captain; Henry Loring, Jr., of 
                        Mishawaka
                    , First Lieutenant; and H. J. Blowney, of 
                        South Bend
                    , Second Lieutenant.86
            
            Patriotism, war fever, and excitement were in the air. Additional subscriptions to the
                    Soldier's Aid Society raised the total to over $2,000. The streets were crowded
                    with people. Flags waved from many private as well as public buildings. A large and expensive flag
                    was greeted by enthusiastic cheers and the firing of cannon when it was hoisted over the Masonic
                    building. More than three hundred citizens accompained the volunteers to 
                        South Bend
                     on Friday and remained with them until their train left for 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
                    The parting of soldiers with friends was very affecting. Many tears were shed by wives, mothers,
                        and sisters, and perhaps those more dear, at the thought that many of the band now departing
                        might find graves in a distant land.87
               
                
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                     had vigorously reacted in support of the Union in less than a week after the news of
                    Fort Sumter reached the village. A permanent organization had been established to represent the
                    village in matters pertaining to the war. A Soldier's Aid Society had been formed and over
                    $2,000 had been subscribed for the relief of the volunteers' families. Forty-two
                    men had volunteered for the army, to risk their lives to support the sovereignty of the national
                    government—all this in less than a week. Patriotism had not been extinguished, but had
                    only slumbered during the frustrating times of the preceding years. The first breeze of war had
                    fanned it into a flame. Never in the four long years of war that lay ahead did the people of 
                        Mishawaka
                     turn away from the path they had chosen in November of 1860. For having made their
                    decision to support the policies of the new Republican party, they supported the war to save the
                    Union with their wealth, their blood, and with their honor.
            
               
                  85
                        Ibid.
               
                  86
                        Ibid.; Timothy Edward Howard, A History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1907), II, 717–718.
               
                  87
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, April 20, 1861.
            
         
         
         
            John Roche—Pioneer Irish Businessman
            
                    Bert Anson
                    *
                
            The Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was the leading project in Indiana's plans for internal improvements
                    during the early 1830's. Opened to traffic from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana, in 1835, amid anticipation of blessings from cheap transportation, it also
                    brought problems of expensive maintenance, indebtedness, and an unassimilated group of people to add
                    to the permanent population of Indiana. This new group consisted of Roman Catholic Irish immigrants,
                    many of whom worked on the canal and then remained in the state after the route was completed.
            The Irish were only a small element in the rapidly increasing population of the area along the
                        Maumee-Wabash rivers between 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     in the decade after 1830. At the time most of the Indiana portion of the area was
                    included in Allen and Cass counties, which then had a combined population of 2,158. By 1840 these
                    two counties had been divided to form Allen, 
                        Huntington
                    , Cass, and Miami counties with a total population of 16,049.1 The
                    relatively small Irish segment in this section was distinguished by rowdyism in a period known for
                    its lack of orderly and peaceful ways of life. Irish antics on paydays and distinctive features of
                    their general habits were described by many witnesses, and the folklore of the upper Wabash valley
                    contains stories and songs illustrating these peculiarities, as well as the Irish yearning for the
                    Emerald Isle.2
            
            
               
                  * Bert Anson is a member of the faculty in the Department of
                        History at Clarion State Teachers College, Clarion, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . This article is an outgrowth of his doctoral dissertation, "The Fur
                        Traders in Northern Indiana, 1796–1850" (Indiana University, 1953), which
                        was written under the direction of Professor John D. Barnhart.
               
                  1 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Fifth Census of the 
                                United States
                            : 1830. Population Schedules, Indiana, I, sheet 357; II, sheet 11. A
                        microfilm copy of this census is on file in the Documents Division of the Indiana University
                        Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind. See also Sixth Census of the 
                                United States
                            : 1840. Enumeration of the Inhabitants of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , 347, 349, 355, 359.
               
                  2 Carl Wittke, The Irish in America (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1956), 40–51, gives a colorful picture of the impression made by the
                        Irish immigrants on Americans. An incident of canal brawling is described in Sandford C. Cox,
                            Recollections of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1860), 145. Father Stephen Theodore Badin is quoted on the Irish and 
                            German
                         Roman Catholic settlers along the canal in Thomas T. McAvoy, The
                            Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789–1834 (
                            New York
                        , 1946), 188–190.
            
            
            Although the poverty and gregarious nature of the Irish seemed to draw them to towns and cities, a
                    noticeable number eventually became farmers.3 While this facet of Irish
                    immigration has been inadequately explored, it can be illustrated by the career of John Roche of 
                        Huntington County
                    . Though Roche worked several years as an unskilled canal laborer, he later became in
                    succession a surveyor, 
                        Huntington County
                     treasurer, partner of the Miami chieftain Francis Lafontaine, a banker, a director on
                    the boards of two railroads, and both partner and agent of Hugh McCulloch of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     before his death in 1894. Starting his business career as a poor immigrant, Roche
                    became part or sole owner of ten thousand acres of land, the holder of shares of stock in a
                    newspaper and other enterprises, and provider of all the funds for the construction of St.
                    Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Hunting-ton. His career, though never spectacular, was so
                    successful and well-known that many older residents of Allen, 
                  Wabash, Huntington
               , and Miami
                    counties still remember local history in terms of John Roche's activities. Many of them
                    were born on farms purchased from him or earned their first money for work performed on his land.4
            
            John was the fifth of eight children and the oldest son in the Martin Roche family which migrated
                    from Wexford County, 
                        Ireland
                    , to 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1830.5 There is no evidence of the influences which prompted the
                    Roche family to come to America. But the Emancipation Act of April 15, 1829, which permitted Irish
                    Catholics to hold certain political offices, yet disfranchised many groups, and the Tithes War of
                    1830, resulting from continued tax support to the Irish Anglican Church, combined to increase
                    emigration from 
                        Ireland
                    . Both economic and political conditions in 
                        Ireland
                     were so unsettled in this period that emigration offered an attractive solution to many
                    people. A few farsighted men of the 
                        United Kingdom
                     believed the Irish migration of the 1830's was a tragic loss to 
                  
                     3 Carl Wittke, We Who Built America: The Saga of the
                                Immigrant (
                                New York
                            . 1939), 148, uses evidence primarily applicable to Illinois to support his
                            conclusions that most counties of the Middle West contained a few Irish farmers.
                  
                     4 For Roche's role in the establishment of St.
                            Mary's Church, see F. Sumner Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1914), I, 314. Short biographical sketches of Roche are in the obituary
                            published in the 
                                Huntington
                            
                            Democrat, October 18, 1894, and in The Catholic Universe (
                                Cleveland
                            , O.), December 3, 1897. 
                                Huntington County
                             histories hereafter cited follow these accounts.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                            Democrat, October 18, 1894.
               
                     the Empire, which drained off the young, healthy members of the
                    labor and small farmer classes and left behind the extremely poor and decrepit.6
            
            Martin Roche remained in 
                        Baltimore
                     two years, then moved to 
                  Zanesville,
                            Ohio
               , for one year and thence to
                    Hunting-ton, Indiana, in 1834 when John was age seventeen.7 Hunting-ton was then
                    a frontier village of only fourteen families8 but its future seemed assured, for
                    the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal had been under construction since 1832; the first boat made the voyage from 
                        Huntington
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1835.9
            
            After Martin Roche died in 1835, his son John became the principal support of the large family. John
                    labored on the canal, and in 1841 he became a rodman or assistant surveyor; later he was a temporary
                    superintendent of repairs on a section of the canal west of 
                        Huntington
                     until 1843.10 Roche resigned from his canal work to fill the county
                    treasurer's position which had been left vacant by the death of the elected official.11 When his term expired in 1844, he did not seek a political career but became
                    a clerk in the Indian trading post at the Forks of the Big and Little Wabash
                        rivers.12
            
            The junction of these important water routes, three miles west of 
                        Huntington
                    , was a favored site for the negotiation 
                  
                     6 Wittke, The Irish in America, 3–22,
                            gives a useful summary of the conditions which encouraged Irish people to emigrate. Edith
                            Abbott, Historical Aspects of the Immigration Problem, Select Documents (
                                Chicago
                            , 1926), 68–72, 79–84, describes the emigration problem
                            before the potato famine in 
                                Ireland
                             increased migration in the 1840's.
                  
                     7 Brant and Puller (pubs.), History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887), 527–529.
                  
                     8 Memorandum in the Roche Real Estate Book. The Roche Papers cited in
                            this article are in the author's possession. They were secured from Mrs. Elizabeth
                            Dalton of 
                                Huntington
                            , the heir of Patrick Gorman who was the Roche estate administrator, and are
                            largely recorded deeds and receipts. The Real Estate Book contains twelve pages of detailed
                            descriptions of Roche's transactions. All citations to the Roche Papers are from
                            this collection unless otherwise indicated.
                  
                     9 An interesting account of the opening of the 
                                Huntington
                            -
                                Fort Wayne
                             section of the canal is that by David Colerick in B. J. Griswold (ed.), The Pictorial History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), I, 332.
                  
                     10
                            
                        
                                    Huntington
                                 Democrat, October 18, 1894; Indiana, General Assembly,Documentary Journal, 1839–1840 [Part 2], pp. 206, 208; see also Documentary Journal, 1841–1842 [Part 1], pp. 65–68.
                            John Roche's name is spelled "Roach" in this document and appears
                            with this spelling in a few other publications, though all his signatures are spelled
                            "Roche."
                  
                     11 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, 331, 528.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 528
               
                     of Indian treaties and the payment of annuities to the Miami
                    tribesmen. Chief Jean Baptiste Richardville operated a store there preceding his death in 1841, when
                    this site became the headquarters of the new chief, Francis Lafon-taine, son-in-law of Richardville.
                    Lafontaine needed a reliable and able man to assist him with the numerous financial and legal
                    problems which went with tribal leadership. Roche had already demonstrated his ability as a
                    canalman, and he was a devout member of the same church in 
                        Huntington
                     that the predominantly Roman Catholic Miami attended.13 Although
                    Lafontaine might have found a clerk who was better acquainted with Indian affairs from among the
                    traders of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     or 
                        Logansport
                    , unverified stories credit Roche with minor participation at some of the treaties and
                    annual payments during the preceding ten years. An 1840 treaty had stipulated the removal of the
                    Miami to land west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , but Richardville's death, the scramble of traders to liquidate or expand
                    their claims, and the pressure of land-hungry settlers complicated its fulfillment14
            
            In this period the duties of the clerk of an Indian civil chief were very exacting, since he must
                    combine the functions of secretary, bookkeeper, legal advisor, and interpreter. Roche served his
                    apprenticeship under a clever businessman, for Lafontaine had managed to secure most of the
                    individually held lands of his people through the white man's system of mortgage
                    foreclosure during his six years as chief.15
            
            
               
                  13 Letter from Father Stephen Theodore Badin, 
                            Huntington
                        , Ind., to the Reverend John Purcell, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , O., September 22, 1832. When commenting on the Catholic membership's
                        characteristics, Badin inserted "—The Indians are our best Cong.
                        —." Original letter in Notre Dame University Archives; photostat in the
                        author's possession.
               
                  14 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                            Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 211–219. A letter from George W. Ewing to Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        , at the Forks of the 
                            Wabash
                        , June 12, 1842, proposing a promise to secure a law permitting the Indians to
                        remain in Indiana if certain claims against the Indians were acknowledged indicates the tactics
                        used by some traders. The original letter is in the Allen 
                            Hamilton
                         Papers in the Indiana State Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  15 Lafontaine secured the 320 acre farm of 
                            Mitchell
                         and Margaret Richardville by a sheriff's sale after his claims against
                        them were allowed at the March, 1845, term of the county court. Original documents are in the
                        Roche Papers, as are the original indentures for numerous land transactions made at this time
                        and noted as recorded in Book D of 
                            Huntington County
                        . A power-of-attorney from Francis Lafontaine to John Roche dated March 29, 1844,
                        included in the Roche Papers, is the first evidence of Roche's employment.
            
            
            Before the Miami migration to the west in 1846, Roche was made a legal partner in the post at the
                    Forks. When Chief Lafontaine died while returning from Kansas in 1847, Roche assumed the actual
                    management of his estate, of which Father Julian Benoit, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and Lafontaine's widow, Catherine, were the legal administrators. His duties
                    included the guardianship of the six minor Lafontaine children, administration of the estates of the
                    Richardville heirs, certification of the annual payments to nearly two hundred Miami who remained in
                    Indiana or returned from 
                        Kansas
                    , and an interest in the settlement of a number of debts to individual Indians which had
                    been acknowledged in the treaty of 1840.16 In effect, John Roche was the acting
                    chief of the Miami Indians. He also continued to operate Lafontaine's store, first at the
                    Wabash Forks, and then in 
                        Huntington
                     until 1859.
            Roche's position in economic and Indian affairs in 
                        Huntington County
                     during the forties was extremely important. Resources he controlled were sufficient to
                    serve as a banking institution. In 1848 he held $7,247.47 for the Richardville and
                    Lafontaine heirs. There were five boxes of silver of $1,000 each, $1,375 in
                    gold, and the remainder in 
                        German
                     thalers, English sovereigns, and Dutch guilders.17 Father
                    Benoit's final report to the probate court of the county in 1852 for the firm of Roche and
                    Lafontaine showed assets of $39,373.23, including notes or loans of $8,817.98
                    to individual white men. The report showed no division of assets to Roche as a partner, supporting
                    the theory that this arrangement had been a legal convenience similar to the customary use of
                    power-of-attorney to permit Roche to act for Lafontaine while the latter was in Kansas with his
                    migrating people.18
            
            The security of Roche's position was jeopardized by the marriage of Lafontaine's
                    widow, Catherine, to the prominent 
                  
                     16 Letter of guardianship of the Lafontaine children from the 
                                Huntington County
                             Probate Court, dated January 31, 1848; power-of-attorney from Julian Benoit,
                            administrator, November 17, 1849; numerous notarized reports to the court concerning
                            expenditures for the estate; memoranda of the annual treaty payments. Original documents in
                            the Roche Papers.
                  
                     17 Memorandum of September 1, 1848, in the Roche Papers.
                  
                     18 Copy of the final report of Julian Benoit, administrator, to the
                            Probate Court of 
                                Huntington County
                            , November 20, 1852, in the Roche Papers.
               
                     merchant of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Francis D. Lasselle, in 1847, followed by her death in 1849. Lasselle considered
                    assuming direction of the estate and wrote to Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     that he intended to investigate Roche's reliability while deciding whether he
                    could safely leave the Miami affairs in another's hands.19
                    Lasselle's decesion to leave Roche in charge was an endorsement of the manner in which the
                    estate was being supervised.
            The management of the Lafontaine heirs' large farms included annual reports to the probate
                    court, for even after reaching their majority the Indians appear to have been unwilling or unable to
                    conduct their business affairs.20 This work was successful and evidently
                    congenial, for Roche soon began to acquire large holdings of his own. His first large purchase was
                    apparently that of 560 acres in 
                        Huntington County
                     from Robert English for $1,800 in 1850. He bought twenty-one additional
                    tracts of land in 1853 and 1854. In 1855 he bought 480 acres but mortgaged another tract for
                    $3,250, repaying the mortgage in 1859.21
            
            About this time Roche began his association with Hugh McCulloch, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , the most important relationship of his career. McCulloch was an important figure in
                    Indian financial affairs because of his position as cashier of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     branch of the Second State Bank of Indiana. This placed McCulloch between the rival
                    commercial and political factions led by Samuel Hanna, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , the Ewing brothers, and the Edsall brothers. All were represented on the board of the
                    branch bank, and McCulloch was adept at preserving harmony in the operation of the bank. McCulloch
                    became president of the Third State Bank of Indiana when it was chartered in 1855, federal
                    comptroller of the currency by appointment from 
                        Lincoln
                     in 1863, and secretary of the treasury in 
                        Lincoln
                    's second administration in 1865. He continued to serve as secretary of the
                    treasury 
                  
                     19 Griswold, Pictorial History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana, 381, tells of Catherine's marriage to Lasselle.
                            Letter from Francis D. Lasselle to Allen 
                        Hamilton, Fort Wayne
                     ,
                            Ind., October 23, 1848, in the Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             Papers.
                  
                     20 Original reports to the Probate Court of 
                                Huntington County
                             in the Roche Papers.
                  
                     21 Entries in the Real Estate Book; indenture from Roche to Augustus
                            Sarageat, recorded March 21, 1855, in Book B, p. 403, of Mortgage Book, 
                                Allen County
                            .
               
                     under Andrew Johnson until 1869, and was reappointed to the
                    office by C#2 A. Arthur in 1884. McCulloch became the resident partner in Jay Cooke, McCulloch and
                    Company of 
                        London
                    , but soon reorganized the bank as McCulloch and Company because of the panic of
                        1873.22
            
            Although embarked on a career of national importance, McCulloch did not neglect his local interests.
                    Roche would have been well known to him through their mutual connections with Miami affairs. The
                    first evidence of their collaboration is Roche's memorandum of their joint purchase of 460
                    acres of land at Lagro in 
                        Wabash County
                     in 1856. This village had failed to prosper from the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal trade, but it was a station on the new 
                        Chicago
                     and Atlantic Railroad, completed between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1855, and therefore was again a speculative attraction. The partners continued their
                    acquisitions of land with the purchase of 1,654 acres in other parts of 
                        Wabash County
                    .23
            
            When McCulloch began his 
                        Washington
                     service in 1863, he gave Roche power-of-attorney to convey joint properties, a
                    necessary legal step which gave Roche freedom to dispose of parcels of land whenever it was
                    advantageous to do so. The accumulation of land by the partners was never rapid, but it continued
                    until 1893 and totaled about 7,000 acres of the 10,776 acres in which Roche held an interest at
                    various times. Since there were occasional sales, this amount was never owned at any one time. In
                    addition to his rural purchases, Roche secured 87 lots in the city of 
                        Huntington
                     and 168 in Largo. His real estate and that held jointly with McCulloch cost a total of
                    about $110,000 and required constant supervision, development, and improvement. The year
                    1870–1871 may be considered a typical one when the partners had expenses of
                    $13,045.19 for new purchases and improvements. A similar cost was the constant
                    expenditure for 
                  
                     22 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measwres of Half a
                            Century (
                                New York
                            , 1888); Dictionary of American Biography (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1958), XII, 6–8.
                  
                     23 These totals are compiled from entries in the Real Estate Book,
                            which give the date of purchase, legal description, acreage, price, seller, and date all
                            transactions were recorded. The failure of Lagro to prosper equally with other Wabash valley
                            canal towns had been a constant puzzle to such speculators as Elias 
                                Murray
                             and John 
                                Tipton
                            . Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John Tipton
                                Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. XXIV, XXV,
                            XXVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1942), III, 156, 157–158, 198.
               
                     ditching and brush clearing, which amounted to $4,108
                    for the period from 1873 to 1887.24
            
            Though McCulloch authorized his son, Charles, to conduct his affairs in the 
                        United States
                    , he instructed him to continue all existing arrangements.25 The
                    reasons for Roche's long association with McCulloch are not clear. His own business
                    operations were large, and while the control of a portion of McCulloch's affairs proved
                    profitable, the same business would have been doubly profitable if conducted with his own capital.
                    Of course, there was always the advantage of sharing possible losses in such emergencies as the
                    panics of 1857 and 1873. Furthermore, it was both flattering and impressive to represent a man of
                    national and international importance.
            Other fields of interest attracted Roche to take an active part in the development of 
                        Huntington County
                    . He was a member of the eight man committee sent from 
                        Huntington
                     to a convention at 
                        Logansport
                     in June of 1852, to select the route for the present Wabash Railroad. The choice lay
                    between a highland route north of the Wabash River from 
                        Logansport
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and a valley route close to the river. Since citizens of the towns on each route
                    believed the decision would assure or blight their futures, considerable rivalry had developed. The
                    valley route was chosen when Roche produced subscriptions for $22,000 to give practical
                    support to the hopes of the towns along the river. He was then elected one of the twelve directors
                    of the new company. The usual railroad construction problems were made more difficult by a cholera
                    epidemic in 1854, but the line was completed in 1855.26 Roche undoubtedly
                    profited from this development since his 
                        Huntington
                     lots were platted as additions 
                  
                     24 Power of attorney recorded November 10, 1863, in 
                                Huntington County
                            . Memoranda of settlements of 1872 and 1887. Memorandum of authority recorded
                            June 27, 1877. Original papers in the Roche Papers.
                  
                     25 Letters from Charles McCulloch, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., to John and Thomas Roche, May 5, 1882, and November 9, 1884, in the
                            Roche Papers.
                  
                     26 Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, I, 223–226, gives details of the
                            railroad's origins, including the original Articles of Association of the Lake
                                    
                        Erie, Wabash
                      and 
                                St. Louis
                             Railroad Company. Brant and Puller, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, 414–415, 438–440. The Proceedings of the Lake 
                                Erie
                             and 
                                St. Louis
                             Railroad Convention held in 
                                Logansport
                             beginning June 23, 1852, and the Articles of Association, signed June 24, 1852,
                            are in the Indiana State Historical Society Library.
               
                     near the railroad in 1859 and 1861.27 When a
                    new railroad, the 
                        Erie
                    , connecting 
                        Chicago
                     with the Atlantic coast was proposed in 1870, Roche was again made a director and may
                    have been its agent for the purchase of right-of-way land. The route passed through some of his farm
                    lands where Roche Station was built east of 
                        Huntington
                    , near the Roche prairie. The 
                        Erie
                     Railroad was begun in 1873 and completed in 1890.28
            
            Another important venture was Roche's part in the establishment of the first bank at 
                        Huntington
                     in 1854. Called the 
                        Huntington County
                     Bank, it was capitalized at $50,000. Roche was president and his youngest
                    brother, Thomas, was assistant cashier. This bank ended operations in 1857, but was able to meet all
                    its obligations. In 1863 Roche became a director and large stockholder in the new First National
                    Bank of 
                        Huntington
                    .29
            
            An interesting departure from the commercial matters in John Roche's papers and the only
                    available documentation of his views on the Civil War is in the record of the trial of the leaders
                    of the Knights of the Golden Circle, held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1864. Lambdin P. Milligan, one of the de-fendents, was a prominent 
                        Huntington
                     lawyer who was often employed by Roche in legal matters. The defendents were tried by a
                    military court at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and sentenced to die for treason. The 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court later set aside the conviction in one of the most important decisions on
                    civil rights in American history when it ruled the defendants' rights to a civil trial had
                    been violated.30
            
            
               
                  27 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana, 412.
               
                  28 The present 
                            Erie
                         Railroad was incorporated in December, 1871, as the 
                            Chicago
                        , Continental, and 
                            Baltimore
                        . In February, 1873, the name was changed to 
                            Chicago
                         and Atlantic Railway; the Indiana State Historical Society Library has the official
                        papers regarding its organization and consolidation. Earl Steele, Building of the 
                                Chicago
                             and Atlantic Railroad: A Review of Intimate Personalities and
                        Accomplishments (
                            Huntington
                        , Ind., 1926), and Bash, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana, I, 226–227, give brief accounts of the many
                        reorganizations of the 
                            Erie
                        .
               
                  29 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana, 431; Bash, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana, I, 234–235.
               
                  30 Robert Eugene Cushman, Leading Constitutional
                        Decisions (
                            New York
                        , 1946), 65–71, gives a clear exposition of the constitutional basis for
                        the decision. Mayo Fesler, "Secret Political Societies in the North During the Civil
                        War," Indiana Magazine of History, XIV (September, 1918),
                        183–286, is the best monograph on subversive societies in Indiana during the war.
                        Florence L. Grayston, "Lambdin P. Milligan, A Knight of the Golden Circle,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XLII (December, 1947), 379–391, is
                        detailed on Milligan's activities in the society.
            
            
            During the trial Roche testified that Milligan was a "Peace Democrat" who had
                    worked hard for peace at a time when some citizens believed anyone who did not vote Republican was
                    disloyal. Roche was thus defending an unpopular position at a time of public hysteria when an
                    attitude of moderation required courage. He further testified that he personally had been an active
                    Democrat since 1854 but had supported needy soldier families, and though one of the largest
                    taxpayers in the county, he had asked the county commissoners for increased appropriations for war
                        purposes.31
            
            After the war Roche became involved in extensive litigation as a result of his attempt to establish
                    his lawyer brother, Thomas, in a machine and iron foundry company. The foundry, the first in the
                    county, was built in 1859 by Morris and Avery Drummond. P. W. Moffitt purchased the company and
                    operated it with various partners until 1870, when Thomas Roche became his sole partner. John Roche
                    supplied a part of the working capital for the company. He tried to extricate his brother with a
                    replevin suit in 1876, and finally secured a judgement against the firm in 1877 for the sum of
                        $14,219.2232
            
            Since Roche's major interest was in his large land operations, he took an active part in
                    efforts to improve farming methods. He served as treasurer of the third 
                        Huntington County
                     Agricultural Society which was organized in 1868. He maintained careful records of the
                    selective breeding of his thoroughbred trotting horses, and his books on farming methods were as
                    numerous as those on surveying or on 
                        Ireland
                     and the Roman Catholic Church.33
            
            Roche had maintained close relations with the Right Reverend Julian Benoit of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for years, and he was one of the distinguished laymen who attended the
                    priest's 
                  
                     31 Ben Pittman (ed.), The Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : Disclosing the Plans for Establishing a Northwestern Confederacy (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1865), 186.
                  
                     32 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, 435. Thirteen documents containing information used by the
                            Roches's lawyer, Milligan, as evidence in the trial are in the Roche Papers. The
                            court judgement was returned June 20, 1877.
                  
                     33 Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, I, 350–353; Real Estate Book descriptions of the
                            Roche stables. The Roche library originally contained several hundred volumes and is in the
                            possession of Mrs. Elizabeth Dalton of 
                                Huntington
                            , Ind.
               
                     funeral in 1885.34 He had also frequently
                    expressed a desire to build a second Roman Catholic Church in 
                        Huntington
                     where services could be given in English instead of in 
                        German
                    , the language used in the existing church, SS. Peter and Paul. Plans for the new church
                    were not complete when he died on October 15, 1894, but nevertheless they were to be finished and
                    executed by his heirs.
            John Roche had never married. His estate, estimated at $500,000, was bequeathed to his
                    unmarried sister, Bridget Roche. Since he had helped other members of his family for years, and they
                    were all well established financially by this time, the only other bequests were for
                    $1,000 to the Hunting-ton church and $2,000 to Patrick Gorman, his foster son.
                    Gorman, who had been reared from childhood by Roche, had become his business assistant and was made
                    administrator of the estate.35
            
            The plans for a new church were soon completed by the Roche heirs. The site next to Roche's
                    home, where tradition says Father Stephen Theodore Badin celebrated the first mass in the county in
                    1834, was purchased. The structure was completed in 1897 at an estimated cost of $90,000
                    and named St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church.36
            
            After the fulfillment of her brother's plans, Miss Roche maintained the estate intact until
                    her death in 1909, when Patrick Gorman became her principal beneficiary. Her will was more detailed
                    than that of John Roche had been. At her death she owned at least nine farms; twelve city lots;
                    mortgages and personal notes; bonds of the city and county of 
                        Huntington
                    , of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and of 
                        Miami County
                    ; and stock in a laundry company, a newspaper, and a furnace manufacturing company.
                    Substantial bequests were given to the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Roman Catholic Diocese, and to the Church's schools in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Miss Roche's residence 
                  
                     34 Charles Blanchard (ed.), History of the Catholic
                                Church in Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Logansport
                            , Ind., 1898), I, 203, mentions the "Honorable John Roach, of 
                                Huntington
                            " in the account of this occasion.
                  
                     35 Roche's will was probated October 22, 1894. The Catholic Universe, December 3, 1877; Blanchard, History of the
                                Catholic Church in Indiana, I, 190–212; Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, I, 312–314.
                  
                     36 Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Indiana, I, 298–300.
               
                     in 
                        Huntington
                     was given to the new St. Mary's Church and School.37
            
            The career of John Roche represents one instance of immigrant assimilation and business interests in
                    nineteenth century Indiana. Roche devoted his life to the support of his church and to the
                    acquisition of land. The path that led him to an influential position was unusual but effective. As
                    the manager of the estate of the last Miami chief, Lafontaine, he was able to purchase valuable
                    tracts of land and to control the use of considerable sums of money. To him, land located near a
                    growing town, along a railway, or any other evidence of a developing or agricultural frontier
                    promised the surest way to wealth, but such lands did not distract him from the gradual conversion
                    of virgin timber lands to productive farms. Roche took a leading part in the development of
                    important internal improvements when his support was needed and if such improvements would add
                    materially to the growth of the area. Although not all of his commercial ventures were successful,
                    he became one of 
                        Huntington
                    's wealthiest men.
            No personal record has been found of his attitude toward the men and events of his day, but the
                    Milligan trial testimony suggests that his viewpoint was calm and moderate. This evaluation is
                    supported by men who once worked for Roche, who tell of the short, stocky man who could be seen
                    nearly every day riding horseback to supervise the workers on his farms, and who carefully fortified
                    himself for the trip by one "after breakfast nip" of whiskey. Enough evidence
                    exists to credit him with major roles in the final years of Miami occupation of Indiana, with a long
                    and successful partnership with Hugh McCulloch, with the early days of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     railroads, in the initiation and support of the first banking institutions and
                    agricultural societies, and the St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church and School of 
                        Huntington
                     can consider him their founder and principal benefactor.
            
               
                  37 Bridget Roche's will was probated in April, 1910. A copy is in
                        the possession of Mrs. Dalton of 
                            Huntington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            History and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                        German
                     Genealogist
            
                    Frederick S. Weiser
                    *
                
            Devotees of genealogy are always beset with problems. Theirs is a job never completed, because even
                    he who feels he has discovered all of his ancestors of whom there is record—rare though
                    such a person be—invariably works on collateral lines or climbs the family tree of a
                    friend out of courtesy. This is no less true of Pennsylvania Dutch genealogists than of others.
                    Those whose ancestors filed into Pennsylvania from 
                        Germany
                     in the colonial era of American history have a set of peculiar problems to haunt them,
                    as well as many common to all who search for their ancestors. From these problems we have selected
                    some that are explicable by an examination of history, in the hope that discussion of them will lead
                    to an understanding of the techniques and sources which one exploring Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry
                    must employ in his research.
            Historians would like to believe that only the very naive still think that the Pennsylvania Dutch
                    came from Holland, and this may well be the case. Whether called Pennsylvania Germans or
                    Pennsylvania Dutch ("Dutch" here being a derivative of the word Deutsch by which Germans identify themselves), many people see a bearded Amishman in his
                    buggy or behind his plow whenever the phrase "Pennsylvania Dutch" enters their
                    minds. And this is wrong. All Germans who had emigrated and settled in Pennsylvania by 1790 or 1800
                    are entitled to be called Pennsylvania Dutchmen, whether they went there via 
                  New York, North
                        Carolina
               , or 
                        Maryland
                    —or whether they were Amish, Mennonites, or even Roman Catholics.
            
               
                  * Frederick S. Weiser, Genealogical Editor of Pennsylvania Folklife, a quarterly published by the Pennsylvania Folklore Society,
                        Kutztown, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , is also a lecturer at 
                            Gettysburg
                         College. He is compiling a genealogy of the John Conrad Weiser family to be
                        published in 1960.
            
            
            The first of several problems confronting the Pennsylvania Dutch genealogist which history can
                    explain and make logical is related to traditional religious convictions among the various groups of
                    Pennsylvania Dutch. At the time of the Reformation, the Western Christian Church split into five
                    major strands: the Roman, the Anglican, the Lutheran, the Calvinist, and the Anabaptist. It is
                    interesting to note that all but the Anglican faith had adherents among 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's 
                        German
                     settlers. What is significant for the genealogist is the type of church doctrine held
                    by these bodies. To the Roman Catholic, the organized church was essential for salvation; to the
                    Lutheran and Calvinist, while not essential, it was important when available, although among the
                    Calvinists there was slightly less emphasis on the formal organization. The Anabaptist, who
                    represented the left wing of the Reformation, repudiated an organized church completely. The
                    attitude toward the church was reflected in the value the respective groups attached to keeping
                    records. Thus, we find that the Anabaptist kept no record of sacraments, rites, or pastoral acts.
                    The 
                        German
                     Calvinists, known as the Evangelical Reformed, and the Lutherans were more
                    conscientious in preserving registers of pastoral activities; and the Roman Catholics, of course,
                    were scrupulously careful in this regard.
            As a result, anyone having the good fortune—or misfortune, depending upon the point of
                    view—to be descended from a Lutheran or a Reformed Dutchman stands a fairly good chance
                    of following him from cradle to grave through the records of the congregation to which he belonged.
                    On the other hand, the Mennonites and Amish, as Anabaptists, did not record marriages, births, or
                    burials on paper for their churches, and their descendants must search elsewhere. Of course, not all
                    pastors were careful in keeping their records, and some concerned themselves only with the
                    sacraments (lists of the baptized and communicants), whereas others recorded confirmations,
                    marriages, and burials as well. Many of the old records were lost or have been inadvertently
                    destroyed over the years, but generally these parochial registers constitute excellent source
                    materials.
            
            Doctrines formulated at the time of the Reformation also affect the possibility of the existence of
                    private, family records. The value attached to the present life and the attitude toward it
                    influenced the maintaining of such records. Anabaptists emphasized a life dedicated to Christian
                    service to the point of exclusion of other activity. Other groups tended to believe that various
                    forms of human experience offered avenues for the Christian life and frowned less upon them. The
                    practical application, as far as the genealogist is concerned, was that the Mennonite would be less
                    likely to own a family Bible, to have baptismal certificates (taufscheins) drawn
                    for his children or to erect a monument over his grave. But his Lutheran or Reformed neighbor would
                    do all these freely.
            The attitude of the religious groups toward the state or civil government also presents a problem to
                    the genealogist, though not so great a one as might have been the case had the state not insisted on
                    certain functions. Again the Anabaptist frowned on participation in anything connected with the
                    state, be it as major a matter as military service or as seemingly innocuous a one as entering court
                    to settle estates. Fortunately, the civil government of Pennsylvania required its citizens to record
                    wills and deeds and settle estates in which there was no will according to the law. In time
                    marriage, as a civil act at least, had to be performed and recorded by a regularly recognized
                    clergyman or justice. Even so, there is often a greater amount of information to be gleaned from the
                    civil records pertaining to the Lutheran or Reformed ancestor than from those regarding the
                    Anabaptist Pennsylvania Dutchman.
            A second major problem facing Pennsylvania Dutch genealogists is identifying the immigrant ancestor.
                    Most persons are interested in—or can afford—delving no further into genealogy
                    than to this point, but determining who that man was can sometimes pose quite a challenge. The
                    influential factors in tracing the immigrant who first settled in Pennsylvania might be summarized
                    by touching upon three points: first, some Germans moved about after they settled in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , frequently leaving records wherever they settled, but not always recording in each
                    place the location  of their immediate past home. Determining
                    whether the Jacob Stauffer who appears in 
                        Adams County
                     in 1809 is the same one who had resided in Berks County until about that time cannot
                    always be done on the basis of documentary evidence.
            Secondly, some Germans moved into Pennsylvania from other colonies. Perhaps the most
                    famous—though by no means the only—such group was the one that migrated from
                    Schoharie County, 
                        New York
                    , into the Tulpehocken Valley in Berks County in the 1720's. Another example is
                    the migration up and down the Shenandoah Valley between Pennsylvania and Virginia and the Carolinas.
                    Records of the first American home of such people are generally lacking, and the likelihood of
                    finding out anything about them prior to their residence in Pennsylvania is therefore slight.
            In the third and most important case, there is the fact that keeping records of the names of
                    immigrants at 
                        Philadelphia
                     was not required until 1727, when it became evident that so many Germans were entering
                    the colony that an oath of allegiance to the government should be required for the colony's
                    own good. The lists thus begun—and a few existing from earlier years—have been
                    printed in three carefully edited volumes and constitute an important aid to the researcher. (See R.
                    B. Strassburger and W. J. Hinke, 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                            German
                         Pioneers [3 vols., Norristown, Penn., 1934.]) But despite these lists the
                    earliest 
                        German
                     settlers, many of them Anabaptists, were not recorded on arrival. Many of those whose
                    names did get on record could not write and recited their names to a clerk, whose English ears often
                    as not were unaccustomed to 
                        German
                     sounds. Hence, spellings vary, and the genealogist is justified in giving up only after
                    his imagination has run rampant through all possibilities. Given the ordinary duplication of common 
                        German
                     surnames—Schaffer, Schmidt, or Schnebly, not to mention Miiller and Metzger,
                    among many possibilities—a genealogist has real sleuth's work before him.
            History offers a genealogist a number of reasons for the movements of peoples. For instance, the
                    majority of Germans who migrated to Pennsylvania prior to the 1720's were members  of religious sects (the Anabaptists) who came to escape
                    religious persecution. After that period, economic conditions caused the Lutheran and Reformed
                    "church people" to leave their homeland in favor of the New World. Economic
                    conditions also dictated the movement of peoples after settlement in America. For instance, the
                    original Mennonite settlements in Conestoga and Lampeter townships, 
                        Lancaster County
                    , south and west of the city of 
                        Lancaster
                    , expanded into northwestern 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        York
                    , and 
                        Cumberland counties
                     as the old areas filled. Northumberland, Snyder, Union, and Centre counties, among
                    others, filled with descendants of the pioneers of Berks County. The western part of the state
                    received the overflow from the eastern. And new states were settled by colonies of Pennsylvania
                    Dutchmen. In addition to those in Indiana, there were groups at 
                        Dayton
                     and 
                  Delaware, Ohio
               , at Sterling, 
                        Illinois
                    , and elsewhere across the continent. Group migrations to Kansas and California were not
                    uncommon. One of the contributions of Pennsylvanians to American life was filling new areas on the
                    frontier as they were opened to expansion. Changes in the economic cycle also explain the movements
                    of men. Depressions in the 1830's, 1850's, and 1870's jarred people
                    loose. Times of prosperity occasioned improvements on property and helped to stabilize settlements.
            If the movement of ancestors causes confusion for the genealogist, then the shifting county and
                    township lines compound his problem. One man could live a lifetime in one spot and yet pass under
                    the jurisdiction of several counties and townships. Pennsylvania politics in the colonial era
                    involved a struggle between the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Quakers and the Scotch-Irish in the backlands, which sometimes meant the formation of
                    new counties and the resulting admission of new members to the assembly. Since our Pennsylvania
                    Dutch ancestors lived in a belt between the two groups, they straddled the political line. When the
                    Scotch-Irish gained control, a set of new counties was suddenly formed. Hence, a handy device for
                    the Pennsylvania genealogist is a list of counties with the dates of their formation and a
                    corresponding list of the townships in each and the dates of their formation.  It is of value also to note that the same township name may be used in
                    more than one county in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            Knowledge of history, then, can be an important aid to the genealogist, providing him with specific
                    information and insights into the difficulties of his task. There are times when the genealogist
                    must work on intuition, but realization that historical fact is elemental in the activities of
                    ancestors is intuition's invaluable supplement.
         
         
         
            The Vandeveer Family
            
                    Mabel Van Dyke Baer
                    *
                
            John Vandeveer was typical of many of his 
                        North Carolina
                     kinsmen and neighbors who left their native state to establish a new home north of the
                        Ohio River. His children and their descendants in time spread into a number
                    of southern Indiana counties, from whence some have gone out to serve their country in various
                    capacities.
            The first of the family to come to America was probably Cornelis Jansz van der Veer (from Zeeland)
                    who settled in New Netherland in 1659.1 The progenitor of the Indiana branch of
                    the family was John Vandeveer, who married Amelia Speer in Rowan County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1773.2 During the Revolutionary War it is believed that he and
                    his wife's brothers fought under General Francis 
                        Marion
                    , the "Swamp Fox."3 After the war he received a
                    grant of one hundred acres of land in Surrey County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , on the waters of Forbes Creek (the present Forbush Creek) which flows into the Yadkin
                    River. He sold this land in 1797 to William Spillman, preparatory to moving to 
                        Kentucky
                    . A George Vandevar received a grant of fifty acres on the same creek in 1793; he too
                    moved to Kentucky and was described as a resident of 
                        Lincoln County
                     in that state when he sold his 
                        North Carolina
                     lands in 1799.4
            
            
               
                  * Mrs. Baer, a resident of 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., has done extensive research on the Vandeveers and is preparing: a family
                        genealogy for possible publication. The editors are indebted to Miss Dorothy Riker for editorial
                        assistance.
               
                  1 William J. Hoffman, "Van Der Veer," The
                            American Genealogist, XXII (July, 1945), 22–26. "The Dutch Ancestry
                        of the Van Der Veer Family," The 
                                New York
                             Genealogical and Biographical Record, LXXIX (April, 1948),
                        76–81; Lester D. Mapes, "Early Generations of the Vanderveer
                        Family," ibid., LXVIII (July, 1937), 202–216; Teunis G.
                        Bergen, Register…of the Early Settlers of Kings County, Long Island,
                            N.Y…. (
                            New York
                        , 1881), 323–325.
               
                  2 Rowan County, N.C., Marriage Bonds, Part II, p. 441 (typed abstracts in
                        Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  3 Letter from William T. Vandeveer, Taylorville, Ill., to author, November
                        22, 1921. General 
                            Marion
                        's warfare was of the guerilla type and very few records regarding it were
                        kept. John Vandeveer's Revolutionary War service has not been corroborated by any state
                        or federal records.
               
                  4 N.C., Department of State, 
                            Raleigh
                        , Land Grants in Surry County; Surry County, N.C., Register of Deeds (filed in
                        Courthouse, Dobson, N.C.).
            
            
            John Vandeveer was on the tax list of 
                        Lincoln County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1803; he entered a tract of 166 acres on Wolfs Creek in Adair County about 1807;
                    this he apparently lost to a prior claimant. By 1810 he and his children and related families had
                    located in 
                  Henry County, Kentucky
               .5 Four years later he purchased land in
                    what is now Stampers Creek Township, 
                        Orange County
                     (in Township 1 north, Range 2 east), where a number of North Carolinians and
                    Kentuckians had already settled.6 The land was within the bounds of 
                        Washington County
                     until the formation of 
                        Orange County
                     in 1816. John and Amelia (Speer) Vandeveer had a large family, all of whom came to
                    Indiana. They were:
            i. John, Jr., born 1783, married in 1804 in Adair County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Susannah French, daughter of James French of 
                        Cumberland County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . (See below for their descendants.)
            ii. Aaron, born February 7, 1785, died April 1857; married in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Nancy French, sister of Susannah, and who died in 1871. They had six children born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , four in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, and one in Sangamon County, 
                        Illinois
                    . The family later lived in Christian County, 
                        Illinois
                    , around Taylorville.
            iii. George W., who married in 
                  Henry County, Kentucky
               , in 1812, Jane Eliza Speer. His second
                    wife was Mrs. Nancy Kirkpatrick McWilliams, widow of Alexander McWilliams.
            iv. Charles, who married in 
                        Lincoln County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1801, Hannah Jones.
            v. Joel, born 1794, married Rachel Moore on October 4, 1815, in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana. She was the daughter of the Revolutionary War soldier, William Moore, and his
                    wife Rachel.
            vi. Cynthia, born October 30, 1800, in Adair County, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; was married to Galvin Ralston, October 30, 1817, in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  5 Adair County, Ky., Deed Records, Vol. E, p. 795 (filed in Courthouse, 
                            Columbia
                        , Ky.); U.S., Bureau of the Census, Third Census of the 
                                United States
                            : 1810; information from Kentucky State Historical Society, 
                            Frankfort
                        , Ky., and from the National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.
               
                  6
                        
                            Jeffersonville
                        , Ind., Land Office Records (in National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
            
            
            vii. Nancy, who was married to Jesse Elgin on January 28, 1819, in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana.
            viii. Polly, who was married to William Noblitt, son of John and Nancy Keys Noblitt of Virginia and
                            
                  Henry County, Kentucky
               . They lived a short time in 
                        Orange County
                    , where he preached at the Rock Spring Church in 1826, then later moved to Martin
                    County, and from there to 
                        Bartholomew County
                     where he died in 1833.
            ix. Amelia, born May 11, 1795, died March 2, 1860; married (1) in 1814, Abraham Noblitt, brother of
                    William, and after 1840 (2) Mr. Hazelwood.
            The father and three of the sons—John, Joel, and George—were listed as heads of
                    households and living in South East Township, 
                        Orange County
                    , in the 1820 Census. This township had been formed from Stampers Creek in 1817. The
                    land that they had purchased lay along or near the trace or road that led from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     on the Wabash River. Wild buffaloes and Indians had passed this way in the early days;
                    then the trace had been used by the first American soldiers and by the lonely mail carrier on
                    horseback who had contracted to carry the mail between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . It was one of the routes marked for improvement by the state legislature in 1820. Both
                    Joel Vandeveer and his father served as overseers in improving the portion that passed their homes.
                    Soon after this the trace was made a stage coach route. In the 1830's the state undertook
                    to macadamize it, and again Joel Vandeveer was supervisor of the work from his house to
                    Bosley's Springs. When state funds were exhausted, the further improvement and upkeep of
                    the road was taken over by a private company and it became a toll road. Under such superintendents
                    as John Frazier, 1844–1847, Michael Riley, 1848, and Joel Vandeveer, 1850, the toll
                    collections were large enough to keep it in condition. Present Road 150 follows closely this same
                    route.
            There were other civic responsibilities, too, which the Vandeveers assumed in their new home. George
                    and Charles Vandeveer served as constables for South East Township; Joel was a justice of the peace,
                    township assessor, and trustee of school lands; and John (either Jr. or Sr.) served as overseer of
                    the poor. Both John, Jr., and Charles were  officers in the
                    Indiana militia in 1816, the former as ensign and the latter as lieutenant. Soon after moving to
                    Indiana, George opened a school in a log cabin which had a dirt floor and no windows; he later moved
                    the school to a residence, where he continued to teach the children of the neighborhood until 1829.
                    In 1846 he was school examiner for 
                        Orange County
                    . Joel was elected to serve in the lower house of the General Assembly from 1833 to
                    1838, and again from 1844 to 1846. He was a Democrat in politics and attended the state convention
                    of that party in 1840. During the 1830's he had a store, probably in his home, where he was
                    licensed to sell "spirituous liquors and foreign groceries." To obtain this
                    privilege he not only paid an annual fee of $5, but presented to the county commissioners
                    a petition signed by twenty-four respectable freeholders, testifying that he was a man of good moral
                    character.
            The family had been affiliated with the Baptist Church in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and on removing to Indiana the various members were active in the service of the
                    church and in promoting its growth. The Stampers Creek Primitive Baptist Congregation was organized
                    in 1818 and erected a church building four miles east of Paoli. Records are not available to show
                    whether the Vandeveers were members of this congregation, but Rachel, wife of Joel Vandeveer, is
                    buried in the cemetery adjoining the church. The Rock Spring Primitive Baptist Church group, which
                    erected a meeting house near Valeene in South East Township, was organized in 1826 in the home of
                    Charles Vandeveer. Charles, his brother Aaron, and brother-in-law William Noblitt were all licensed
                    ministers in the Baptist Church.7
            
            John Vandeveer, the father, died sometime before June 1, 1835. A deed executed on that date by George
                    and his wife, Jane Eliza, mentioned Amelia Vandeveer as the widow of John, deceased.8 John Vandeveer, Jr., purchased 160 acres adjoining his father's land in 1814; this
                    he continued to hold until 1863. His wife's parents, James and Barbara French, also moved
                    to Indiana and purchased land in the same area. 
                  
                     7 Information regarding the activities of the family in 
                                Orange County
                             was obtained from the Commissioners Records and from Good-speed Bros. &
                            Co. (pub.), History of Lawrence, 
                                    Orange
                                , and 
                                    Washington Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884).
                  
                     8
                            
                                Orange County
                            , Ind., Deed Records, Vol. E, p. 323.
               
                     John and his wife Susannah had a number of children. The names
                    of seven are known:
            i. James, born March 10, 1810, in 
                        Cumberland County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , married Caroline 
                        Brown
                     on September 2, 1832, in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana; (see below for their children):
            ii. Perry, born 1821; married Sarah Malina—–and lived in Stampers Creek
                    Township.
            iii. Harriet, married—–Hockman.
            iv. Lewis W., born 1825, died July 31, 1863, and is buried in Rock Spring Cemetery, 
                        Orange County
                    . Sarah J. Vandeveer, who died March 12, 1906, and is buried in the same cemetery, is
                    identified as "wife of L."
            v. Bennett, born 1826; married Sarah C. Carlisle on May 7, 1859, in 
                        Orange County
                    .
            vi. Joel, born 1829; married Jemima Ann Monk; practiced medicine in 
                        Crawford County
                    .
            vii. Tandy, the youngest son, born 1833; married Martha Beckham; moved to 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , and later to Taylorville, 
                        Illinois
                    , where they died in 1883 and 1891, respectively.
            James, the oldest son of John and Susannah Vandeveer, purchased land adjoining that of his father in
                    1834. He sold this four years later and lived for a time in 
                        Greenfield
                     Township, 
                        Orange County
                    , and later in Warrick and 
                        Pike counties
                    , Indiana; after 1865 he moved to 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , and lived near his brothers Bennett and Tandy. He died in 1869, and his wife Caroline
                    in 1877; she is buried in 
                        Warrick County
                    . James and Caroline Vandeveer had the following children, the first six of whom were
                    born in 
                        Orange County
                     and the last three in 
                        Warrick County
                    :
            i. Harriet, born 1836, married John F. Wire, 
                        Warrick County
                    .
            ii. John W., born September 11, 1837, died May 13, 1908; served in the Civil War as corporal and
                    sergeant in the Ninety-First Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, Company B; married Elizabeth Ober
                    Smith, born 1841 and died 1913. Both are buried in Selvin Cemetery, Pigeon Township, 
                        Warrick County
                    .
            iii. Stephen B., born 1840, died 1922, married Cordelia Mack; they were living in 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , in 1870 and 1880; he served in the Civil War as private in the same company as his
                    brother John W.
            
            iv. Temperance, born 1842, married Louis Robinson in 
                        Warrick County
                    .
            v. Perry, born 1844, died 1914; married (1) Sarah M. Hanks; (2) Elen Monical, in 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , 1874; (3) Martha A. Beard Slagley.
            vi. Susanna A., born 1846, married Nathan Tomlinson about 1872.
            vii. Joel, born 1848, was living with his widowed mother in 1870 in 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    .
            viii. Josiah, born 1850, died 1912; married Florence —– and was living in 
                        Gibson County
                     in 1880.
            ix. Louis Bennett, born 1856 in Boonville; died 1915; married Mary Ellen Gwaltney, daughter of Harris
                    and Harriet (
                        Barr
                    ) Gwaltney, born 1868 in 
                        Gibson County
                    , died 1945. They are buried in Liberty Cemetery, Cynthiana, Indiana. Their children
                    were: Welzie Wellington, William Harris, Curtis B., Stella, Nora, Ocie, Alva Lee, Harley A., and
                    Clara Helen.
            Welzie Wellington Vandeveer, the oldest son, was born near Haubstadt in 1887. After teaching school
                    for three years he was employed by the Western Union Telegraph Company, the Goodrich Tire and Rubber
                    Company, and the American Petroleum Products Company prior to 1925, when he founded his own company,
                    Allied Oil, Inc. During his twenty-three years as president he built Allied Oil into a major
                    business enterprise. After its merger with Ashland Oil and Refining Company in 1948, he turned his
                    attention to a new enterprise, Vanson Production Corporation, which produces and distributes natural
                    gas in the southwestern states. During World War II, as director of the Second Petroleum District of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , he was able to perform a valuable service in the government's program of oil
                    conservation and distribution. In recent years he has served as a member of the National Petroleum
                    Council, an advisory group which helped to overcome the acute oil shortage in Europe while the Suez
                    Canal was closed.
         
         
         
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence.
            
                    Emma May Clark, dau. of Winthrop and Julia Clark, was orphaned at age of 3 in 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.; m. Edward Housekeeper; d. c. 1903 in 
                            South Bend
                        . Want information on her and husband, including burial place.—Emma May
                        Vilardi, 431 Kearny Ave., Kearny, N. J.
                    William Coats and wife (probably Polly) came from 
                            South Carolina
                         to Miami Co., O., c. 1805, to Marion Co., Ind., c. 1822, where they died 1826. Had
                        children: Hepsy m. Daniel Wright; John (b. 1788) m. Sarah Wright; Rhoda (b. 1789) m. Joseph
                        Wrench; Rachel m. William Ramsey; Joseph (b. 1792) m. Elizabeth Coppock; William (b. 1796) m.
                        Charlotte Wright; Mary m. George Beanblossom; Hetty m. John Harrison; and two others whose names
                        are not known. Want information on ancestry and descendants.—Willard Heiss, 4020 E.
                        34th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Want information on ancestry of Aaron Condra, b. Crawford Co., Ind., 1820, d. 
                            Oregon
                         1899, and wife Cordelia Turley, b. Ky. 1824, m. in Crawford Co. 1841, d. 
                            Oregon
                         1894.—Neil D. Thompson, 1922 Montrose St., 
                            Los Angeles
                        , Calif.
                    Want to contact descendants of Martha Downie Ensley (1818–90) who m. in 1839 in
                        Bartholomew Co., Ind., Jacob Coffman. Living in Shelby Co. c. 1843; may have later m. Jacob
                        Swiber.—Mary Ensley Weinantz, Edinburg, Ind.
                    Want parents and children of Isabel Hanks who m. Calvin Merry in 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind., in 1812.—Mrs. Robert Moss, 2245 South Western Ave., 
                            Los Angeles
                        , Calif.
                    Want information on Samuel B. Moats, b. 1817 or 1820 in 
                            Ohio
                        , and wife Catherine, b. 1830 in Va. Had children: James W., Mary E., Isaac, Andrew,
                        b. 1847 to 1853 in 
                            Ohio
                        ; Isaac b. Licking Co., 
                            Ohio
                        .—Mrs. George Morton, 6605 Brill Road, 
                            Indianapolis
                         27, Ind.
                    Mary Eleanor Paul, b. Indiana, 1841 or 1842, m. George Granger (1833–93), d. 1893; had
                        brother James, b. 1844, and sister Elisa, b. 1848. Want information on parents and place of
                        residence in Indiana.—Mrs. George R. Goodrich, R. R. 1, Box 70 X, Tillamook, Ore.
                    A descendant of Joseph Paul and Mary Cummins, who moved from Monroe Co., West Va., to 
                            Franklin
                         Twp., Henry Co., Ind., 1830, wishes to exchange genealogical data with descendants
                        of Joseph's  brother Jesse Paul and wife Nancy Gore
                        who settled in Dudley Twp., Henry Co., in 1832.—Mrs. Grace (Paul) Simpson, 16700 Heim
                        Road, Chelsea, Mich.
                    Forris (Farris) Sanders, Sr., and wife, Mary Callaway, Quakers, came to 
                            La Porte
                         Co., Ind., from N. C. via Ohio before 1850 with sons Forris Jr., Callaway, James,
                        and John. 1850 census gives father's age as 71. Names disappear from county records
                        after 1868. Would like to correspond with any descendants.—Dr. Harold I. Meyer, 434
                        Arlington Place, 
                            Chicago
                         14, Ill.
                    Would like to contact descendants of James S. Smith, Jr., who is said to have had a large family
                        and lived in Broad Ripple area of 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 1880's; he was a carpenter and painter and a half brother of Eliza
                        Smith who m. Henry Lafler Taylor.—Mrs. Fannie B. (Taylor) Richardson, 681 E. Main
                        St., Greenwood, Ind.
                    
                  
                            Campbell
                         Taylor, son of Wilson and Elizabeth (Stroud) Taylor, b. 
                            Greenville
                         Twp., Floyd Co., Ind., 1821; m. Elizabeth Engleman, May 8, 1853; left Floyd Co.
                        about 1855. Want information on him and his descendants.—Ben F. Taylor, 1400 Riley
                        Road, 
                            New Castle
                        , Ind.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Thomas Worthington: Father of Ohio Statehood. By Alfred Byron Sears. (
                        Columbus
                    : Ohio State University Press, for the Ohio Historical Society, 1958. Pp. viii, 260.
                    Selected bibliography, index. $5.50.)
            Thomas Worthington was probably the most influential of the constitutional fathers of 
                        Ohio
                    . Of English 
                        Quaker
                     antecedents, he was born in 1773 near Harpers Ferry in what is now the eastern
                    panhandle of West 
                        Virginia
                    . When twenty-three, he journeyed westward to the Scioto Valley where he purchased lands
                    in the vicinity of 
                        Chillicothe
                    . On a second journey the next year he acquired nearly three thousand acres in the
                    Virginia Military District. He and Edward 
                        Tiffin
                    , his brother-in-law, began the construction of log cabins and agreed to move their
                    families to 
                        Chillicothe
                    . Back in Virginia he disposed of most of his property, manumitted his slaves, and
                    prepared to move to the Northwest Territory. The opportunity to advance his station in life and to
                    be of influence in building a new state, as well as his dislike of slavery, contributed to his
                    decision to go west.
            Miller, farmer, stock-raiser, shipper, and land speculator, Worthington was a successful businessman
                    in his new location. As a member of the legislature of the Northwest Territory, he became one of the
                    leaders of the Republicans in their struggles against the authoritarian Governor Arthur St. Clair.
                    Their most important contest resulted from their desire to escape the arbitrary government of the
                    territory. Success in this struggle entitles Worthington to be called
                    "State-Maker." Although he enjoyed the assistance of Nathaniel Massie, Edward 
                        Tiffin
                    , William Henry Harrison, Michael Baldwin, and many others, Worthington's skill
                    and perseverance made him the dominant figure. In 
                        Ohio
                    's constitutional convention of 1802 he also played an important part.
            The legislature of the new state elected Worthington one of the first 
                        United States
                     senators from 
                        Ohio
                    . He generally supported Republican policies and was active in approving the purchase of
                    Louisiana and in extending to its people the rights of 
                        United States
                     citizenship.
            Although the outstanding figure in the state, Worthington was defeated in 1808 in a three-cornered
                    campaign for the governorship of 
                        Ohio
                    . He was again defeated in 1810 in a race against only one candidate. His friends,
                    however, turned defeat into victory by electing him 
                        United States
                     senator. In 
                        Washington
                    , he exerted himself by opposing without success measures leading to war. Before and
                    during the War of 1812, Worthington endeavored to keep the Indians quiet, to raise troops, and to
                    prepare the defenses of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Late in 1814, he was chosen governor of the state. He recommended to the legislature an emergency
                    wartime militia, improved educational provisions, better salaries for judges, more effective
                    expenditure of state funds for roads, and a system of state regulated county poor farms. Some
                    improvement was granted in respect to the militia and  counties
                    were given discretionary authority to provide poor farms, but most of his recommendations were not
                    adopted.
            On October 8, 1816, Worthington was re-elected for a second term by a large vote. He seems to have
                    retained his popularity although the legislature was scarcely amenable to his influence. As a member
                    of the constitutional convention in 1802, he had helped to make the governor a figurehead, and as a
                    governor he was not able to overcome this limitation.
            Professor Sears has spent many years in the study of Thomas Worthington and is without doubt the best
                    qualified person to write this biography. His research is extensive and his knowledge is ample. His
                    documentation generally is very satisfactory; his bibliography is not exhaustive, a point which the
                    author suggests by labeling it a "Selected Bibliography."
            Two minor criticisms may be suggested. First, at times throughout the work fairly important incidents
                    in Worthington's career are treated very briefly, such as his elections to important
                    offices and his activity in the constitutional convention. For example, the work of the
                    corresponding societies in the election of delegates to the constitutional convention in 1802 is not
                    mentioned. Secondly, Sears shows a strong bias against Harrison and his military activity from 1811
                    to 1813. These criticisms are indeed concerned with minor points, and the volume will probably
                    recommend itself to readers as an excellent work.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The Health of a Nation: Harvey W. Wiley and the Fight for Pure Food. By Oscar E.
                    Anderson, Jr. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, for the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1958. Pp. ix, 332. Sources, notes, index. $6.00.)
            This biography of Harvey W. Wiley is a contribution to recent American history and an excellent
                    portrayal of a bureaucrat at work. It provides a new opportunity for examination of the American
                    scene from the 1880's to 1930, reveals much concerning the motivations of men high in
                    business and in government, and clearly suggests that reformers are often the products of their
                    times. Moreover, the numerous references to the sugar, corn products, whiskey, and food-processing
                    industries should interest economic and business historians.
            Professor Anderson devotes approximately one-tenth of the volume to Wiley's career to 1883,
                    eight-tenths to his twenty-nine years as a chemist in the Department of Agriculture, and another
                    tenth to the eighteen years following Wiley's resignation from the department in 1912.
            For almost forty years, both in and out of government office, Dr. Wiley supported the campaign for
                    pure foods. Anderson gives full recognition to the Muckrakers and, especially, to
                    Sinclair's The Jungle. He proves that Roosevelt followed, rather than
                    led; when the pressure for a pure foods law became too great to be ignored, T. R. took a positive
                    stand.
            
            After a long struggle, which Anderson describes in great detail, Wiley won a major victory in 1906
                    when the pure foods law was enacted. But he soon became involved in an equally bitter fight over
                    interpretation, application, and enforcement of the law. One is forcibly impressed by the fact that
                    Wiley was in almost constant conflict with members of his department, with Roosevelt, and then with
                    Taft. Wiley was blunt, generally uncompromising, at times ruthless, always jealous of his power,
                    quick to resent criticism, and courageous, even in the presence of superiors more concerned with
                    votes than with adulteration.
            In the opinion of this reviewer, Professor Anderson makes two significant points: first, the fact of
                    Wiley's tremendous popularity, a popularity carefully noted by Presidents Roosevelt, Taft,
                    and Wilson; secondly, the claim, effectively presented, that in fighting for pure foods
                    Wiley's first concern was for honesty in business. Wiley was a scientist, and he sincerely
                    believed that morality, not health alone, should be the real goal of all science.
            Professor Anderson has read much, both pro and con, on Wiley's long and active life, as well
                    as making use of the Wiley papers in the Library of Congress and the records of various government
                    agencies in the National Archives. Typographical errors are few. Notes have been placed at the rear
                    of the book, to which some readers may object.
            Anderson's treatment is fair. Though sure of Wiley's greatness, he points out the
                    man's frailties, such as "a touch of vainglory" and "a tendency,
                    brought forth by the heat of controversy and his lust for achievement, to give due recognition only
                    to those facts which sustained his biases" (p. 278). But, as Anderson concludes, one who
                    shocks a complacent people into action is not likely to be remembered for "consistently
                    sweet reasonableness."
            
               Indiana State Teachers College Richard H. Gemmecke
         
         
            
               Law and Locomotives: The Impact of the Railroad on Wisconsin Law in the Nineteenth
                        Century. By Robert S. Hunt. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1968. Pp. xiv, 292. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, table of authorities, index.
                    $6.50.)
            This rather unpretentious looking monograph written by a former teacher, now a practicing lawyer,
                    portrays in extremely readable style the history of railroads and the law in Wisconsin from 1847 to
                    1890. This study, made possible by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , while essentially a work in Wisconsin legal history, propels itself into a significant
                    niche in the broader pageant of economic-constitutional history. It describes the role of various
                    agencies of the law—legislature, courts, executive, and constitution—in
                    attempting to deal with problems that were presented by the advent and growth of the railroad in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            After discussing briefly the internal improvement ventures prior to the issuance of the first
                    railroad charter in 1847, the author launches into a discussion of the legislative scandal of 1856
                    involving the ill-starred La Crosse and 
                        Milwaukee
                     Railroad and Byron Kilbourne, its prime mover, who bribed almost the entire governing
                    body of the state. Hunt goes on to analyze why the legal structure broke down so  completely, shrewdly and correctly viewing the episode in the climate
                    of its own time. According to the author, insufficient development of the state's economy
                    and legal institutions made it impossible for Wisconsin successfully to meet newly created problems
                    of railroad building.
            The struggles of Eastern creditors against Western debtors is described in penetrating detail.
                    Western farmers who had mortgaged their homesteads to help finance the railroads were in imminent
                    danger of losing their farms. In attempting to preserve their property, the owners formed leagues to
                    gain cooperatively what they could not hope to gain individually, and in so doing laid down a
                    precedent for the Granger and Populist movements of a later period. Their combined efforts, while
                    successful in the cases of the legislature and local officials, however, were thwarted by the State
                    Supreme Court, which relied upon the precedents laid down by Marshall in Fletcher
                    v. Peck and Dartmouth v. Woodward.
            The dramatic struggle between the state and the railroad in the Granger period receives its just due.
                    The ill-fated Potter Law and its savior, Chief Justice Edward George Ryan, are subjected to close
                    scrutiny. The defects of this regulatory law—its crudeness, lack of enforcement
                    machinery, and reliance upon individual suits, the work of the learned Chief Justice in upholding
                    the statute based upon the state's police powers, and the successful railroad propaganda
                    campaign which secured the law's repeal are skillfully related to the national as well as
                    to the state socio-economic-political scheme.
            The periods 1858–1874 and 1875–1890 are ably covered in two chapters in which
                    the author channels his attention toward the formation of railroad law on a day by day basis. While
                    generalized, many pages contain a penetrating and detailed analysis of the role of the courts in
                    defining the railroad's relationship with strangers, its relationship with users of its
                    services, its intercorporate affairs, its relationship with government, and its relationships with
                    other contracting parties.
            In his final chapter the author concludes that the railroads, while respectful of the courts who
                    played the key lawmaking role, had the field more or less to themselves. In this period of railroad
                    building and consolidation rarely if ever was there any attempt to redress the balance of power in
                    this area of public concern. Wisconsin law continued to act as an umpire, but in an unmatched
                    struggle, and inadequately recognized the change from an agricultural to a complex urbanized,
                    industrialized society which was then taking place. Instead, the corporate community, in this era of
                    the twilight of state control, lived apart from formal agencies of the law except when it found such
                    agencies useful for its own objectives.
            This scholarly study, crammed with primary references indicating an exhaustive amount of research,
                    and containing an all-inclusive table of authorities coupled with a critical bibliography, is of
                    interest not only to the historian and the political scientist but to the bench and the bar as well.
                    For the people of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , those of the Middle West, indeed those of the whole nation, this readable study is
                    significant as a notable contribution to the legal-economic history of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Indiana University Ralph Wm. Helfrich, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               Politics in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               . Leon D. Epstein. (
                        Madison
                    : University of Wisconsin Press, 1958. Pp. xiv, 218. Tables, notes, appendices, index.
                    $3.50.)
            This is an attempt to analyze systematically the Wisconsin political system, particularly in the
                    postwar decade of 1946–1956 when the traditionally dominant Republican party was faced
                    with a growing Democratic challenge. Epstein tests several hypotheses inherent in the concept of a
                    responsible two-party system and continues certain lines of systematic research in state politics
                    laid down during the past few years by such scholars as V. O. Key. The author has gathered valuable
                    data by use of interviews, questionnaires, extensive field studies in several 
                        Wisconsin counties
                    , and analyses of election returns. A rich collection of forty-six tables in the
                    Appendix provide the data-conscious reader with ample information on propositions tested in the
                    study.
            After a brief description of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's social, economic, and institutional environment Epstein tests the idea of
                    the competitive two-party system in relation to Wisconsin politics. Analyses of primary and general
                    election competition support the conclusion that, while the two-party model was approached in
                    postwar years, Wisconsin politics fell short of the model's assumptions during the first
                    part of the twentieth century. A chapter on the relationships between size of place and the
                    two-party vote supports findings by others that the Democratic percentage of the vote declines as
                    the size of place becomes smaller; the crucial farm vote is highlighted as radically fluctuating. An
                    examination of the characteristics of party organizations yields a picture of parties oriented to
                    national and state issues with fairly sharp policy differences between parties, and of
                    mass-membership organizations with relatively little correspondence to the two-party model
                    assumptions of parties as the determinants of candidacies. A chapter on the social, political, and
                    educational background of state legislators indicates that legislators are an upwardly mobile group
                    whose legislative careers are an integral part in a political career pattern. As in most states, the
                    perquisites of the office are inadequate to encourage development of a group of full-time
                    professional legislators. The chapter on legislative elections suggests that genuine competition for
                    office exists in both one-party and two-party districts, but that the nominating process and
                    campaigning are relatively free from party organizational control and are characterized by
                    individualistic politics.
            Such studies as Epstein's will be applauded by serious students of state politics. Until
                    recently state political systems have not been subjected to the rigorous examination made possible
                    by the newer techniques of political behavior research. It is hoped that as more studies of this
                    sort are made our understanding of American political behavior will be extended beyond the rather
                    inadequate point to which legal and historical approaches have brought us.
            
               Indiana University David R. Derge
         
         
         
            
               A History of the Arts in 
                            Minnesota
                        
               . Edited by William 
                        Van
                     O'Connor. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of Minnesota Press, 1958. Pp. 165. Bibliographical notes.
                    $3.00.)
            This is as readable and informative a book as anyone can hope to find on the artistic development of
                    a sector of American society. It is a small volume, but is well-written, full of interesting
                    information, and includes a number of well-chosen illustrations.
            
               History of the Arts in 
                            Minnesota
                        
                is the work of three authors. John K. Sherman has written the section on music
                    and the theatre; Grace Lee Nute has told about books and authors; and Donald E. Torbert has
                    discussed art and architecture. The three essays were edited by William 
                        Van
                     O'Connor who also wrote the short but lucid Foreword. One cannot help but be
                    aware of the apparent editorial skill that has resulted in a nice balance of space alloted the
                    authors and in a uniform style of writing that runs through the three sections.
            The publication of this book marks the centennial of 
                        Minnesota
                    's admission to the Union, and the chapters or sections deal principally with
                    the evolution of the arts during the past hundred years. References are made by the authors,
                    however, to activities and events before 1858, as, for instance, in the discussion of Indian music
                    and the songs of voyageurs, or in the discussion of artists who painted the Indians and sketched
                    frontier scenes as early as the twenties and thirties. The section dealing with books and authors
                    makes some interesting references to early accounts of travel through the Minnesota country,
                    narratives which make up in authentic and forceful description what they lack in literary eloquence.
            This small book might well serve as a model for enterprising people in other states who would like to
                    see in print the story of their cultural and artistic development.
            
               John Herron Art Institute Wilbur D. Peat
         
         
            
               The Lost Panoramas of the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               . By John Francis McDermott. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1958. Pp. xvii, 211. Numerous illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $7.50.)
            "In the history of the theater there are no productions so nearly incredible as the
                    panoramas of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Five times within the 1840's the Father of Waters sat—or kept
                    rolling along—for his portrait. Five times artists made lengthy, laborious, and expensive
                    trips sketching river scenery and then spent weeks and months transferring those sketches to canvas.
                    The originals are all lost or destroyed, but there is little doubt that they were faithful
                    reproductions and that more than once they caught the very being of the Great River. The history of
                    these pictures makes vivid the art business of panorama-making and re-creates the Mississippi which
                    our ancestors knew" (p. 17).
            As the preceding quotation indicates, this volume is an account of the panoramas of the Mississippi
                    painted by Banvard, Smith, Stockwell, Lewis, and Pomarède during the 1840's.
                    When one artist claimed that  his panorama was three miles in
                    length, a rival artist claimed that his measured four miles. McDermott concludes that the longest
                    was actually about 3,750 feet. Hurriedly assembled, these panoramas were certainly not artistic
                    masterpieces, but they delighted numerous audiences as they portrayed the wonder, variety, grandeur,
                    and majesty of the Father of Waters, while reel after reel unwound amid exciting and exaggerated
                    commentary. The panoramas are reminders not only of the great importance of the Mississippi for
                    travel and trade in pioneer days but also of its great significance in the minds and imaginations of
                    the pioneers themselves.
            Although McDermott indicates that the artists, of course, did not visit all of the places which they
                    painted, this reviewer failed to note any attention to the possibility that the artists made
                    definite use of information and descriptions from the various guides to the navigation of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . At any rate, the probability of such indebtedness is obvious, for from such guides
                    much of the Mississippi could have been painted far from the actual site of scenery portrayed.
                    "Borrowings" from Timothy Flint, however, are indicated. The book includes
                    numerous scenes from the panoramas, illustrations of descriptive items, and related pictures.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Negro Tales from Pine Bluff, 
                            Arkansas
                        , and Calvin, 
                            Michigan
                        
               . By Richard M. Dorson. Indiana University Publications Folklore
                        Series, No. 12. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1958. Pp. xviii, 292. Indices, bibliography. Paperbound,
                    $3.00.)
            It is appropriate that Professor Dorson present his credentials through the University Press upon
                    becoming the Chairman of the Department of Folklore of Indiana University, although he has
                    contributed an earlier article to the Press in the volume honoring Distinguished Service Professor
                    Stith Thompson, whom he succeeds. Richard Dorson, too, has contributed many articles on Negro
                    folktales to Midwest Folklore, also published at 
                        Bloomington
                    . The present monograph represents him very well, especially as a cultural historian.
            Dorson's collection is unique on two counts. In the first place, the actual collecting on
                    tape of a hundred tales in eight days among Negroes at a time of great racial tension is a notable
                    accomplishment and brought great praise from the dean of collectors, Vance 
                        Randolph
                    , of the Ozarks. This technique is contrary to the American tradition of leisurely
                    collecting among a people who accept the interviewer as one of their own. Secondly, the careful
                    transposition of tales from tape to print without the intrusion of dialect rendered orthographically
                    represents a victory. The careful, complete, scholarly notes, cross-indexes, analogues, tale type
                    and motif numbers round out a volume that should please historian, anthropologist, or folklorist.
                    Since the latter half of this work is in reality a continuation of an earlier volume of Negro tales
                    from 
                        Michigan
                     (see Indiana Magazine of History, LIII [September, 1957], 329–331), this
                    review will be concerned with the  Arkansas collectanea. The
                    divisions used in this new volume are similar to those in the previous one. In fact, new material
                    presented in this latest volume corroborates the point of view that the Negro endlessly repeats
                    stories from nearly every possible source.
            The section entitled "In the Field" modestly defines a method of collecting which
                    should be required reading for individuals doing field work—if only there were a like
                    chapter on the unwinding of tapes, the typing, indexing, and classifying of materials. The results
                    of such diligent scholarship, however, can be seen in the concluding parts of the book in a
                    description of the informants, lists of tale types and motifs, and references. "Animal and
                    Bird Stories," a category most people associate with Uncle Remus, are chiefly variants of
                    earlier recorded tales, some of which are international in distribution. "Old Marster and
                    John" along with "Protest Tales" form a body of popular literature which
                    contains deft satire and displays swift wit not often associated with the Negro, probably because of
                    minstrel stage stereotyping. Minstrels, by the way, influenced the Negro and his tales, as another
                    section of Dorson's book reveals. "Spirits," a collection of
                    superstitions, are anecdotal in nature and reflect fairly common beliefs of the southern Negro.
                    "Jocular Tales," which this reviewer likes best, shows the wide range of Negro
                    humor—jokes, jests, tall-tales, anecdotes—that has been borrowed from many
                    sources and adapted to local situations, thus providing interesting parallels to national and
                    international types of humorous oral literature.
            Each variant of a given tale type or each example of a story motif is clearly labeled, each
                    informant's name given, each tale told in that informant's own words without the
                    kind of editing that makes many earlier collections unscholarly and inaccurate. The casual reader
                    need not be deterred by the running commentary, for this is good reading; he can, however, read the
                    tales alone for the entertainment value they certainly contain. No one need wonder, as he would in
                    reading the "popular" books of folklore, whether or not this volume is authentic.
                    It is—a fact which gives Richard Dorson's writing significance.
            
               Purdue University William Tillson
         
         
            
               Geology of the Great Lakes. By Jack L. Hough. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1958. Pp. xviii, 313. Numerous illustrations, maps,
                    charts, and tables; bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            Professor Hough's Geology of the Great Lakes offers valuable information
                    about the Great Lakes area which historians, as well as geologists, will find very useful. For
                    instance, Professor Hough notes that various sections of the Old Northwest have at times been on
                    different slopes of the continental divide between the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence and the Mississippi
                    basins. This circumstance, plus the fact that during historic times the Old Northwest has been
                    drained by both the St. Lawrence and the Mississippi rivers, adds perspective
                    to help explain why it was that from the advent of the French in the seventeenth century until at
                    least the end of the War of 1812 it remained uncertain whether the region south of the Great Lakes
                    would ultimately belong  to the 
                        United States
                     or 
                        Canada
                    . The current St. Lawrence Seaway improvement project is further evidence that the Old
                    Northwest has enduring ties with 
                        Canada
                     as well as with the 
                        United States
                    .
            Noting that the last comprehensive account of the geology of the Great Lakes area appeared in 1915,
                    Professor Hough has attempted to incorporate recent research and new knowledge regarding the
                    geological development of the Great Lakes. Part 1 "includes descriptions of the present
                    lakes and of the processes operating in them, summaries of the events in the region which led up to
                    the formation of the earliest lakes, and a review of the methods which are used to date the events
                    of lake history. Because much of this material is familiar to the professional geologist, it is
                    summarized here in a semipopular style, mainly for the non-geologist" (p. vii). Part 2,
                    however, "the history of the lake stages, has been prepared primarily for the professional
                    geologist and for specialists in related fields such as archeology" (p. vii). But any
                    thoughtful general reader can glean much from both parts of this comprehensive study with its
                    numerous maps and charts which indicate lake altitudes, lake depths, former lakes and previous lake
                    stages, wind currents on the lakes, underlying rock formations, former lake shore lines, etc.
            Professor Hough warns of probable limitations in radio carbon dating methods (p. 129). Some
                    geologists, however, may question his statement that "there are four distinct glacial ages
                    within the Pleistocene epoch, as shown by the record in North America" (p. 90). He suggests
                    that the first was the Nebraskan which continued for 1,000,000 years, followed by the Kansan for
                    700,000 years, the Illinoian for 300,000 years, and the Wisconsin which lasted for a mere 10,000 to
                    50,000 years. But the author regards this chronology as only a rough approximation. The end of
                    glaciation and the emergence of the Great Lakes in approximately their present form came about
                    20,000 years ago—more recent than yesterday morning as geologists measure time! That
                    geological evolution continues with important consequences is illustrated by the statement that it
                    appears likely that erosion will cause the draining of Lake 
                        Erie
                     within another 25,000 years or so. By that time 
                        Niagara Falls
                     will also have disappeared.
            Geologists will have to evaluate technical aspects of this volume. Nevertheless, the scholarly manner
                    in which Professor Hough has set forth his views—and especially the modest and careful
                    manner in which he frequently offers relevant evidence pro and con, whether it agrees with his views
                    or not—is impressive. At a time when the various university presses are floundering to
                    discover their proper role, the University of Illinois Press is to be warmly congratulated for
                    publishing a volume of such high caliber which merits a wide reading and illustrates the kind of
                    volume university presses should delight in publishing. For presumably the primary and abiding
                    justification for university presses, as for universities themselves, is the advancement and
                    dissemination of knowledge.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Indian Villages of the Illinois Country: Historic Tribes. By Wayne C. Temple.
                        Illinois State Museum Scientific Papers, Volume II, Part 2. (
                        Springfield
                    : Illinois State Museum, 1958. Pp. 218. Illustrations, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $3.00.)
            Scholarly interest in the history of the various Indian groups which formerly inhabited the Great
                    Lakes-Ohio Valley region is not a recent phenomenon. Louise Phelps Kellogg's classic study,
                    "The Fox Indians during the French Regime," Proceedings of the State
                        Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1907 (
                        Madison
                    , Wis., 1908), 142–188, is a case in point. Of more recent vintage is The Indians of the Western Great Lakes Region, 1615–1760, by W. Vernon
                    Kinietz (Occasional Contributions from the Museum of Anthropology of the University of 
                            Michigan
                        
               , No. 10; 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , 1940). Dr. Thorne Deuel, as director of the Illinois State Museum, has long fostered
                    an active research program at the museum, dealing with the history of the Indian groups which
                    inhabited the present state of 
                        Illinois
                    . The first publication resulting from this research program was Indian
                        Villages of the Illinois Country: Atlas, by Sara Jones Tucker (Illinois State
                        Museum Scientific Papers, Vol. II, Part 1; 
                        Springfield
                    , 1942). The volume here under review, Indian Villages of the Illinois
                        Country: Historic Tribes, by Wayne C. Temple, is a continuation of Mrs. Tucker's
                    able work. Dr. Temple undertook the herculean task of presenting a comprehensive history of the
                    sojourn in Illinois of all thirteen Indian groups which are known to have lived within the present
                    state boundaries. Each of the eight chapters presents the history of a separate Indian group (Miami, 
                        Illinois
                    , etc.) or a cluster of associated groups (Sauk and Fox, Kickapoo, and Mascouten).
            Much effort has been expended by Dr. Temple in the compilation of a mass of data relating to these
                    many different Indian groups. It is indeed regretable that a more polished and authoritative volume
                    could not have been the result. The utilization of the Gage Papers (Wm. L. Clements Library,
                    University of 
                        Michigan
                    ) and the transcripts of Spanish archival material deposited in the Illinois Historic
                    Record Survey (Department of History, University of 
                        Illinois
                    ) as well as Howard Peckham's book, Pontiac and the Indian
                        Uprising (
                        Princeton
                    , 1947), would have strengthened considerably the treatment of the British and Spanish
                    occupation of the Illinois Country and the subsequent relations of officials of each nation with the
                    Indians.
            The sporadically inadequate coverage of source material, however, is not so disturbing as the evident
                    lack of precision in major and minor details. As cases in point, notice pages 59–61 and
                    178. (These are just a few of the many pages which contain inaccuracies.) On page 59 it is stated
                    that "Charlevoix declared that some of the Miami built their own fort atop 
                        Buffalo
                     Rock on the Illinois River east of Starved Rock." This statement refers to ca. 1687. 
                        Buffalo
                     Rock is the name given in modern times to a rocky eminence on the north bank of the
                    Illinois River; that name was not applied during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
                    Charlevoix, writing in 1721, stated: "A League below the coal-pit you see a rock on the
                    right [north bank], entirely round, extremely high and its summit in the form of a terrass; that is
                         called the Fort of the Miamis, because
                    these Indians had formerly a village there" (Journal of a
                    Voyage… [2 vols., 
                        London
                    , 1761], II, 200). It will be noticed that Charlevoix assigns no date to the Miami
                    occupation. One of the best sources to establish Miami occupation of the Illinois Valley in ca. 1687, Henri Jourel's journal covering the years ca.
                    1685–1688, is ignored in this instance even though it was used elsewhere in
                    Temple's volume.
            A cursory and inaccurate account of the history of the Miami from 1734 through 1763 is found on pages
                    60–61. According to this account, the Miami left the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River (in reality the Maumee River) because of a smallpox epidemic in 1734 and
                    immediately thereafter removed to the Great Miami River in western 
                        Ohio
                    . The Miami migration eastward actually occured in ca, 1748, however,
                    and was the result of a nativistic movement first instigated by Nicholas the Huron and followed by
                    La Demoiselle, a Miami leader. Most of the Great Miami River village, which was quite large,
                    returned to the Maumee valley immediately after the French-led Indian raid in 1752. There is no
                    historic documentation to substantiate the statement made on page 61 that the Miami remained on the
                    Great Miami River until 1763. Furthermore, during the short existence of this Miami village it did
                    not need to be able to "withstand the onslaughts of the Six Nations" since it
                    consisted of the strongest pro-Iroquois, pro-British group of Indians in the Great Lakes region.
            Another disquieting feature of this book is the reliance placed upon the supposition that all
                    information contained within a map or document refers to the year it was drafted or written. The
                    information on both the 1685 Menet map and on the 1690 Coronelli map is datable essentially as
                    pre-1683 (Tucker, Indian Villages in the Illinois Country: Atlas, text for maps
                    VII, IX, and X). Samuel York, in his report of 1700, states unequivocally that he had not been in
                    the western Great Lakes region since before 1697; therefore, his extremely vague location of the
                    Miami, as well as the Sauk, Potawatomi, and 
                        Winnebago
                     as all living "on the sides" of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , is hardly the specific location for 1700 given on page 60.
            Although the publication of Indians of the Illinois Country: Historic Tribes has
                    been eagerly awaited, the volume fails to meet the expectations of high scholarship for which the
                    Illinois State Museum has long been noted.
            
               Indiana University Emily J. Blasingham
         
         
            
               Indiana Magazine of History General Index: Volumes 26–50
                        (1930–1954). Edited by Elfrieda Lang. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Department of History, Indiana University, 1958. Pp. vii, 383. $5.00.)
            Most of our state historical societies find that the publication of a quarterly magazine is a
                    considerable drain on their slender income. Therefore, an index volume covering ten, twenty, or more
                    years is an expensive labor and a separate publication that they evade as long as possible, out of
                    necessity. Unfortunately, the longer it is put off, the more costly it grows—and the more
                    necessary it becomes to scholars  and libraries. Even the august
                    Historical Society of Pennsylvania put off this chore for about fifty years, finally tackled it in
                    1941, and at length published an index to seventy-five volumes of The Pennsylvania
                        Magazine of History and Biography in 1954!
            The Indiana Magazine of History did not suffer such accumulated neglect. In 1930 an
                    index to the first twenty-five volumes was published. After another twenty years had elapsed, the
                    need for a further comprehensive index was voiced. In particular, Mr. Eli Lilly, former president of
                    the Indiana Historical Society, suggested further indexing. Since the magazine is published by the
                    Department of History of Indiana University in cooperation with the Indiana Historical Society,
                    Lilly Endowment, Inc., provided a subsidy to the department for the project. The university also
                    made grants, and the tedious work was completed last year for a General Index to
                    volumes 26–50 inclusive, 1930–1954.
            There is little that can be said in appraisal of such an index. If it has faults, they can be
                    discovered only after considerable use. In general, the subdivisions of topics under the main entry
                    are welcomed, the use of dates in conjunction with historical articles is a felicitous addition, and
                    the use of a few generalized subject entries is helpful. Place names are meticulously cited.
                    Otherwise, the reputation of Miss Lang for careful work is sufficient guarantee of accuracy in
                    details. Research workers in general, and investigators of Indiana history in particular, will give
                    repeated thanks for the appearance of so helpful a tool, a tool that never loses its keeness with
                    the passage of time. The work is a major achievement in and for Indiana.
            
               William L. Clements Library University of 
                            Michigan
                        
                Howard H. Peckham
         
         
            
               Detachment and the Writing of History: Essays and Letters of Carl L. Becker.
                    Edited by Phil L. Snyder. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N. Y.: Cornell University Press, 1958. Pp. xvi, 240. $3.60.)
            This volume is a collection of some of Becker's essays, speeches, and private letters, and
                    these are accompanied by an Introduction written by his former colleague at Cornell, George H.
                    Sabine. The selections are arranged in sections on historiography, education, and democracy. All of
                    the essays and speeches except "Why De Tocqueville Wrote On
                    Democracy" and "The Art of Writing" have already appeared in print,
                    although "The Dilemma of Liberals in Our Time" appears here in fuller form than it
                    has previously. The letters, of course, are published for the first time.
            The section concerning historiography contains some of what Becker has had to say about historical
                    relativism. A much more complete picture of his thought along these lines, however, can be gained
                    from his Everyman His Own Historian, which was published later than all the
                    selections on the subject in the present volume except "What is Historiography?"
                    Since this is not a review of Everyman, it is not the place to consider
                    Becker's relativism, but it might be observed that these views have been under heavy
                    attack. It is now perhaps even more difficult to subscribe to them in view of the immense amount of
                         new material available in so many fields of history, as
                    advances in the natural sciences and in scientific history alike tend to date both his philosophy of
                    history and his historiography.
            What Becker has to say in this volume about education can perhaps be considered the chief merit of
                    the book since some of his most important ideas are contained in private letters, not published
                    before, and because the essays have not had the wide circulation enjoyed by his other work. In this
                    section Becker has some telling and useful points to make concerning both the ideals and the
                    practical problems of modern education, which will not fail to strike a responsive chord in this day
                    of increased concern over institutions of higher learning. Particularly, the letter written in
                    response to a request from the Alumni Association of the University of Kansas contains views that
                    can be read with profit by everyone connected with university administration throughout the country.
            Both in the section on historiography and in the final one, "On Democracy," one
                    becomes increasingly conscious of the duplication of Becker's ideas. This difficulty is
                    present to some extent in his major works but is considerably heightened in this volume since it
                    collects material wherever available and so associates pieces which Becker himself can not have
                    intended should appear together. This problem might have been avoided had the editor taken more
                    seriously Becker's own statement in the Preface to his Modern Democracy
                    where he says that to "plagiarize one's own writing is not a commendable
                    practice." The statement is made in reference to a situation for which an almost exact
                    parallel is provided in the present book in the essay "The Dilemma of Liberals in Our
                    Time," which appears as "Liberalism—A Way Station" in Everyman, This duplication is noted by the editor, but the argument that here the
                    essay is in its fullest form is somewhat offset by the fact that in Everyman it is
                    much more clearly placed within the context of the rest of Becker's thinking. Compare also
                    the quotation of Rousseau in Modern Democracy (p. 23) with the same quotation in
                    this volume (p. 219).
            Another difficulty appears with the lecture, "What is Still Living in the Political Thought
                    of Thomas Jefferson?" in which Becker refers to the need for strong government controls to
                    secure a harmony of interests which "must be deliberately and socially designed and
                    deliberately and co-operatively worked for" (p. 235). In a day very sensitive to the issues
                    of socialism and other leftist political and economic views, this by itself will sound differently
                    than it does when accompanied by an analysis of the vicious aspects of Communism (as in Modern Democracy, pp. 78ff.), or by a logical argument against Communism (as in Everyman, pp. 113ff.).
            It is not possible to avoid being charmed by the clarity of Becker's thinking and his facile
                    literary abilities, whatever one's own views on the role of the historian might be. In this
                    volume, which may stand as a digest with limitations of Becker's work, his many qualities
                    of thought and writing come through very clearly. Nevertheless, taking the problems of duplication
                    and the lack of complete contexts together, one wonders what Becker himself, obviously sensitive on
                    these points, would have said about its publication.
            
               Indiana University John W. Snyder
         
         
         
            
               Between Past and Present: An Essay on History. By Nathan Roten-streich. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1958. Pp. xxix, 329. Index. $5.00.)
            This essay focuses the light of recent thought on the nature of historical knowledge. Martin Buber
                    notes in the Introduction that savants from Vico down to the present time have examined the
                    essential character of history, but "a critique of historical reason is still
                    unwritten." Buber goes on to comment that Vico was the first to ask why there was no
                    science of human history, yet neither Vico nor Kant suggested the kind of knowledge this science was
                    to be built upon. And Hegel, for all of his fame, got no nearer historical realities. In fact, Hegel
                    wrote, "We must take history as it is." Ranke founded the objective school and for
                    him history was "the living memory of the human race" (p. v), but he did not
                    interpret or explain. Comte, father of Positivism and sociology, believed in a history of
                    man's opinions. And Marx interpreted everything in history as arising from man's
                    economic condition. In the past half century a number of scholars have been working toward a
                    comprehensive epistemology of historical knowledge. Among these is Nathan Rotenstreich, Dean of
                    Humanities and Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at The Hebrew University in Jerusalem. The
                    Jerusalem circle, under the leadership of Hugo Bergmann, has been working since 1941 in a common
                    effort of philosophical thinking in the fields both of mind and of nature. Between Past
                        and Present is one result.
            Rotenstreich, like Vico, begins with the proposition that the essential feature of the domain of
                    history is identity of subject and object. But, unlike Vico, he goes on to examine the difference
                    between the poles of subject and object, which indicates for him that on the one hand there is an
                    objective course of action called "‘history’ and on the other a story
                    of this action called ‘narration’" (p. xi). This difference between
                    the res gestae and their narration can be shown in the directions of time. The
                    author generally recognizes, along with the modern 
                        German
                     school of philosophy, the difficulty of measuring values with any precision when the
                    valuer himself is part of the stream of history, as every historian is. On objectivity he writes,
                    "There is no point in stressing the objectivity of knowledge when the very knowledge itself
                    becomes datum" (p. 37).
            The author's analyses of the factors of time, causality, and history and social science are
                    germane. Prediction of the future is not history for him and so he rejects Toynbee's
                    "immutable laws." Marxism, he notes, is the best known example of the doctrine
                    that one domain of historical activity has exclusive causative power. Marx completely disregarded
                    the cumulative character of history and tried to make man exclusively an historical being.
                    Rotenstreich adds, "This is an example of the illegitimate introduction of sociological
                    concepts into historical investigations" (p. 308). Since "historical knowledge
                    puts the principle of causality into effect immediately, without the mediating link of the material
                    laws" (pp. 297–298), the author cannot accept material laws in application to
                    history. And because of the assumption of material laws necessary to "evolution,"
                    he also rejects this term as applicative to history.
            
            In conclusion, Rotenstreich finds that history is meaningful because meanings are bestowed by human
                    action. It is perpetually created and is at no place or time a totality closed in itself. It is also
                    rational because of the structure of time. And man is historical because he is more than historical,
                    for as a philosopher the author places reason above historical knowledge.
            This closely written analysis of historical knowledge merits the earnest attention of historians.
                    Marxists and historicists will challenge many of the conclusions, as indeed will others. But the
                    questions raised, particularly in relation to time, causality, and the interdependence of the social
                    sciences are pertinent and worthy of discussion. The work is stimulating and illuminating, a notable
                    effort to clarify the nature of historical reason. Perhaps the author would agree with Pieter Geyl
                    who opined in his essay on Ranke, "History is infinite. It is unfixable. We are trying all
                    the time to reduce past reality to terms of certainty, but all that we can do is to render our own
                    impression of it…." (Pieter Geyl, Debates with Historians [
                        New York
                    , 1956], 1).
            
               Indiana University Frederick A. Schminke
         
         
            
               The Old Regime, 1713–63. Edited by J. O. Lindsay. The
                        New 
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History, Volume VII. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1957. Pp. xx, 624. Index. $7.50.)
            This is the second volume to appear of the New 
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History, designed to replace the original series planned sixty-five
                    years ago by Lord Acton and published in the decade between 1902 and 1912. The new series is edited
                    by a supervisory committee of three senior British scholars. Each volume is edited by one
                    scholar—this one by Mrs. J. O. Lindsay, Fellow in Girton College and Lecturer in Modern
                    History at the University of 
                        Cambridge
                    —with each subject or chapter treated by a specialist or expert. For this
                    volume, all of the contributors are English, and Mrs. Lindsay herself wrote five of the twenty-four
                    chapters.
            The series is designed as a standard general account of European history since 1450. This volume,
                    like its predecessor in the original series, emphasizes political, military, and diplomatic affairs,
                    which is probably inevitable and proper for a period as stormy as the one covered. Generally
                    speaking, the approaches in the two volumes on this period from the two series are remarkably
                    similar, and this volume in particular has not been notably affected by current fashions or even by
                    new schools and methods. Probably the principal change is that seven of the chapters in this
                    volume—almost a third of the total—treat Europe as a whole. The most
                    distinguished chapters are those by Professor A. Cobban on 
                        France
                    , by Professor W. R. Brock on 
                        England
                    , and by Professor D. B. Horn on the Diplomatic Revolution. Most of the chapters on
                    military conflict are quite superior. Some chapters are quite weak, and C. A. Macartney was so
                    carried away by his enthusiasm for Hungarian history, in which he is without a peer in Western
                    Europe, that he devoted two-thirds of the chapter on the Habsburg Empire to 
                        Hungary
                    .
            
            It is interesting to note that the title of this series is The New 
                            Cambridge
                         Modern History, although the series deals only with Europe and its expansion,
                    which in this particular volume consumes the last four chapters. The chapters on individual
                    countries follow no general pattern. Thus, some important subjects, such as taxes or education, are
                    discussed clearly and accurately in the chapters on some countries and are not even mentioned in
                    chapters pertaining to other countries. Intellectual and cultural history in general receives less
                    attention than is deserved; one of the great ages of the English novel, for example, receives less
                    than one page. The style is compact and deadly, though perhaps not so dull and indigestible as that
                    of the first series. Even the format of the book seems designed to make reading as difficult and
                    tedious as possible.
            Finally, the volume has no maps, illustrations, or bibliography. The series entitled The
                        Rise of Modern Europe, edited by William L. Langer, compares favorably in every way with
                    this one, but especially in the useful maps, illustrations, and bibliographies provided. It is most
                    unfortunate that some effort was not made to increase the attractiveness and usefulness of this
                    book.
            
               Indiana University Robert P. Byrnes
         
         
            
               The American Heritage Book of the Revolution. By the editors of American Heritage. Narrative by Bruce 
                        Lancaster
                    , with a chapter by J. H. Plumb. Introduction by Bruce Catton. (
                        New York
                    : American Heritage Publishing Co., 1958. Pp. 384. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $12.50.)
            Popular history has traditionally been concerned with great crises. For over three-quarters of a
                    century after 1776 the American Revolution was the dominant theme of a popular historical literature
                    which culminated with the publication of Benson J. Lossing's two-volume Pictorial Field Book of the Revolution in 1851. Since 1865, however, the War for
                    Independence has taken a back seat to the War between the States; and with the Civil War Centennial
                    less than three years away, the tide of books on the War between the States is approaching flood. So
                    disproportionate has been the emphasis upon "The War" that other American wars
                    have been in serious danger of being relegated to total obscurity, at least in the eyes of the
                    general public. It is, therefore, especially heartening to students of Early American history to see
                    the publication of an attractive and readable popular book on the American Revolution.
            Indeed, the American Heritage Book of the Revolution should do much to revive
                    interest in the War for Independence. This volume is a splendid example of what the American Heritage people are doing to present history to the public in an informative and
                    interesting manner with a pleasing format. And, although it is designed for the lay reader, scholars
                    will find it useful, for nowhere has such a brillant selection of the graphic materials of the
                    American Revolution been assembled in one volume. It contains over six hundred pictures, nearly a
                    third of them in full color, including reproductions of portraits of major military figures on both
                    sides, numerous eighteenth and  nineteenth-century paintings of
                    Revolutionary battles and events, and modern photographs of uniforms, arms, and other relics of the
                    period. With the exception of the first chapter, which contains a brief sketch on 
                        England
                     during the Revolutionary era and which was written by Dr. J. H. Plumb, Lecturer in
                    History at 
                        Cambridge
                     University, the exciting and colorful text is the work of Bruce 
                        Lancaster
                    , free-lance author of another account of the Revolution, From 
                            Lexington
                         to Liberty. 
                        Lancaster
                     follows Plumb's chapter and his own short description of the American colonies
                    on the eve of the revolt with a lucid narrative of the military fortunes of the American army from
                    that tragic night of April 19, 1775, on 
                        Lexington
                     Green to that happy day "in the trenches before Yorktown" on October
                    19, 1781. His narrative is broken only by a chapter recounting the events that led up to the
                    Declaration of Independence in July, 1776, and by two special pictorial chapters, one illustrating
                    the equipment, uniforms, weapons, and tactics of the participants and the other depicting the naval
                    apparatus of the war.
            Errors in fact and interpretation are few except in the chapter on events preceding the outbreak of
                    hostilities, where, one suspects, the writer is less at home. It will come as a surprise to most
                    Revolutionary historians to read that Massachusetts was a corporate colony (p. 54), that
                    "few Royal governors were even second-raters" (p. 54), that George Mason was a
                    member of the Virginia House of Burgesses during the contest over the Stamp Act (p. 57), that the
                    Crown instead of Parliament claimed the right to tax the colonies (p. 64), and that Governor Tryon
                    was ever unpopular with eastern planters in 
                        North Carolina
                     (p. 65). Objections may also be raised to the assertion that Negro slavery was
                    "essential to tobacco production" in the southern colonies (p. 51). In addition,
                    it might with some validity be argued that the title of Revolution is
                    inappropriate inasmuch as the volume is concerned almost exclusively with military events and for
                    the most part ignores constitutional, political, social, economic, and intellectual
                    developments—which some would contend constituted the real Revolution. Still, these
                    objections are minor and detract little from this otherwise excellent volume, which must certainly
                    be the most handsome book ever published on the American Revolution. An index greatly enhances its
                    value.
            
               Michigan State University Jack P. Greene
         
         
            
               The Spirit of 'Seventy-Six: The Story of the American Revolution as Told by
                        Participants. Two volumes. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B. Morris. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1958. Vol. I: Pp. xxxi, 662. Vol. II: Pp. xviii,
                    663–1348. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index. $15.00 per set.)
            "The Spirit of 'Seventy-Six" is a phrase frequently used to describe the
                    mood of the revolutionary generation in American history. Henry Steele Commager and Richard B.
                    Morris have assigned this expression to their two-volume collection which goes a long way in
                    conveying the meaning of that spirit to present-day readers. The men and women who participated in
                    the stirring and dramatic events that created a  new nation tell
                    the story in their own words. In the numerous accounts covering the period from the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party to the Peace of 
                        Paris
                     in 1783, the Spirit of 'Seventy-Six reveals itself in various ways and forms
                    and becomes definable. It was the force that led to American resistance against the greatest odds;
                    it was the fierce determination of leaders to fight on despite numerous defeats; it was the
                    indomitable will of a people who faced the tragedy of fighting a civil war as well as one to achieve
                    independence.
            Commager and Morris combed through a massive amount of published and manuscript material and selected
                    approximately a thousand extracts which are joined together with an excellent narrative giving
                    unity, force, and direction to the story of the American Revolution. The authors set the stage and
                    then allow the actors to read the lines. The contemporary accounts read smoothly, thanks to
                    corrections in spelling and punctuation. The blue pencil was used sparingly, however, thus
                    preserving the real flavor of another era. In those trying years there was little time for formal
                    and polished reports on military campaigns or on the problems of conducting a war; there were no war
                    correspondents. The excerpts, which are mainly from informal diaries and journals or from letters,
                    may be awkward or factually incorrect, but they reveal the thoughts and deeds of men and women who
                    were making history.
            Perhaps the greatest value of the collection is that it presents a picture of the American Revolution
                    in its broadest scope: the political side, the military campaigns (with maps of key battles), the
                    diplomatic maneuvers, the development of the American navy, and the changing economic and social
                    conditions. Also, events in the enemy's camp are not overlooked. Again and again the reader
                    is transported across the lines to British headquarters or across the waters to the Houses of
                    Parliament to view what the British were planning or thinking. The accounts presented reinforce the
                    impression that many British leaders lacked understanding of the American situation throughout the
                    critical years.
            The war was not won only by attacking the Redcoats; the home front was also an important battlefield.
                    Here is told the story of the fight to control inflation, to solve the problem of financing the war,
                    and to curtail the vicious "spirit of avarice" among the profiteers. Another
                    interesting section, "Health, Hospitals, and Medicine," is fragmentary but does
                    reveal the underdeveloped state of medical science in the last decades of the eighteenth century.
                    Though there are no reliable statistics, Dr. Benjamin Rush was undoubtedly correct in saying that
                    hospitals "robbed the 
                        United States
                     of more citizens than the sword" (p. 815). And about a century later during
                    the Civil War, the situation had little improved.
            The volumes will hold the attention of all who are interested in the force of ideas and in the
                    complexity of human nature. The student of history will refer many times to these documents which
                    will answer some questions and will raise others about the revolutionary era. In addition, the
                    bibliography of published and manuscript sources will be useful. The general reader will find
                    himself reliving the exciting times through the words of those who embodied the "Spirit of
                    'Seventy-Six."
            
               Indiana University Rena L. Vassar
         
         
         
            
               Political Ideas of the American Revolution: Britannic-American Contributions to the
                        Problem of Imperial Organization, 1765–1775. Third edition. By R#2 G. Adams.
                    Commentary by Merrill Jensen. (
                        New York
                    : Barnes & Noble, Inc., 1958. Pp. vii, 216. Frontispiece, bibliographical notes,
                    index. Paperbound, $1.50.)
            According to the late R#2 G. Adams, from 1763 to 1775 the American colonies contested British policy
                    with constitutional arguments which, despite their diversity, were essentially a demand for
                    definition of colonial status vis-a-vis Great Britain. Behind the verbal fencing of shifting
                    American arguments was a consistent plea for self-government, but self-government within the Empire. 
                        England
                    's failure to solve the imperial problem raised by colonial opposition ended in
                    the loss of her American colonies.
            By presenting the major contentions of representative thinkers such as John Adams, James Wilson, and
                    Thomas Paine, the author endeavors to show that during pre-Revolutionary debate there began to
                    emerge the concept of government as an instrument of society answerable to law as well as the
                    concept of divided authority or federalism. These principles, Adams believes, are America's
                    contribution to political thought, which form the basis of the American system of government and
                    which also provide the root ideas for both the League of Nations and the British Commonwealth.
            Adams has acutely analyzed the constitutional controversy prior to the Revolution, but as S. E.
                    Morison has noted (English Historical Review, XXXVIII [January, 1923], 115), he
                    does not place political theory as sharply in its framework of historical fact as he might have.
                    Merrill Jensen's twenty-six page Commentary to this third edition partially compensates for
                    Adam's shortcoming and adds appropriate comments about recent scholarship on political
                    ideas of the Revolution. In some instances, Political Ideas reflects its time
                    (first edition, 1922) since certain 
                        German
                     theories of government are evaluated rather sternly, while the League is sized up
                    somewhat optimistically. Adams' small volume, however, is a competent and balanced
                    examination of a perennial problem—the relationship between local and central government.
            
               Indiana University Mary Lou Thielking
         
         
            
               We the People: The Economic Origins of the Constitution. By Forrest McDonald.
                    Publication of the American History Research Center, 
                        Madison
                    , Wis. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1958. Pp. x, 436. Tables, index. $7.00.)
            Forty-five years after the publication of Charles A. Beard's influential monograph, An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution, Forrest McDonald, the executive
                    secretary of the American History Research Center in 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , has
                    written this detailed critique of the theory of the origins of the Constitution which had become
                    since 1913 first a center of controversy and finally the more or less orthodox position of the
                    historical guild.
            
            The author of We the People does not directly attack Beard's method of
                    inquiry, as Professor Robert E. Brown has already done so severely and convincingly in his volume,
                        Charles Beard and the Constitution (
                        Princeton
                    , 1956). He has undertaken instead to complete Beard's admittedly fragmentary
                    outline and to test its validity by doing the additional and strenuous research required for a
                    thorough re-study of the economic background of the Constitution. Following the Beardian
                    interpretation closely, McDonald has sought out all the evidence available which might establish
                    more clearly the economic interests and predilections of each member of the Constitutional
                    Convention of 1787 as well as those of each member of the ratifying conventions of all thirteen of
                    the states. This was obviously no small task. Although the book unfortunately lacks a separate
                    bibliography, the author reveals in his voluminous footnotes the depth and extent of his search in
                    both printed and manuscript sources. In addition to the 
                        United States
                     Treasury records used by Beard, where McDonald sometimes adopts a different
                    interpretation of the data, he has made fruitful use of such materials as town and county histories,
                    genealogies, contemporary newspapers, census reports, and a host of financial and other manuscript
                    records in state and local archives.
            After slightly more than a hundred pages devoted to a descriptive and statistical analysis of the
                    occupational status and economic holdings of the members of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Convention, McDonald turns to a similar study of the state conventions which ratified
                    the Constitution. Here is the heart of his book. He takes up first the five states which manifested
                    little opposition to ratification: 
                  Delaware, New Jersey, Georgia, Connecticut
               , and 
                        Maryland
                    ; then the four states with a more balanced division of opinion: 
                  Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, South Carolina
               , and 
                        New Hampshire
                    ; and finally the remaining four states: 
                  Virginia, New York, North Carolina
               , and 
                        Rhode Island
                    , where ratification was secured only after a protracted struggle. By employing this
                    logical method of organization, he has been able to discover significant distinctions in the
                    motivations, economic and noneconomic, that led to ratification in the various sections of the new
                    nation.
            The outcome of McDonald's sober reappraisal is simply that Beard's economic
                    interpretation is not in accordance with the facts. In neither the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Convention itself nor in any of these three groups of states does the author find a
                    consistent and clearly defined pattern of economic interests for and against the Constitution.
                    Delegates who favored the new instrument of government did not act as a consolidated economic bloc,
                    as Beard would have us think. Most of them, moreover, were farmers, and personalty interests, far
                    from being the dynamic element in framing and ratifying the Constitution, were fairly evenly
                    distributed between its advocates and opponents.
            Despite his negative conclusion, McDonald still believes that an analysis of the economic background
                    is important for an understanding of the origins of the Constitution. Although he has not produced a
                    full-fledged alternative to Beard's thesis, he offers some suggestions toward a broader
                    interpretation which includes certain non-economic factors as well as new insights into the economic
                    conditions of the period. The book's chief limitation—self-imposed by the
                    author—lies in remaining  so closely tied to
                    Beard's own system of interpretation. The author is prevented, for example, from
                    investigating the role of ideas in the development of the new government. The reviewer looks
                    forward, however, to the promised sequel, which will undoubtedly make a more positive contribution
                    to the study of the tangled web of motivations and interests behind the framing and ratification of
                    the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               DePauw University Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
            
               A Yankee Jeffersonian: Selections from the Diary and Letters of William Lee of 
                            Massachusetts
                        , Written from 1796 to 1840. Edited by Mary Lee Mann. Foreword by Allan Nevins. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. xvii, 312. Illustrations, notes, chronology, index.
                    $5.75.)
            William Lee of Massachusetts journeyed to 
                        France
                     in 1796 on business and remained until 1816 as a commercial agent at Bordeaux. During
                    this period, he recorded the details of life in 
                        France
                     and of the strained relationship between 
                        France
                     and the 
                        United States
                     during the Napoleonic era. On returning to America, Lee served as auditor of the
                    Treasury for thirteen years and turned his critical pen on 
                        Washington
                     society during the administrations of Monroe and John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams. Relieved of office in 1829 by President 
                        Jackson
                    , Lee continued his correspondence until his death in 1840.
            The major figures of 
                        France
                     and America people Lee's writing. He knew and wrote about Napoleon,
                    Talleyrand, Jefferson, 
                        Monroe
                    , and John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams. Included in this volume are several previously unpublished letters of Jefferson,
                    additional information on the personages of the XYZ Affair, and a letter noting the failure of a
                    plan by Lee and others to carry Napoleon to America for asylum. Lee's diary, written from
                    1796 to 1798, recalls the travels of Arthur Young, while his letters describe the intrigues of
                    Napoleon's court and the reaction which followed the Bourbon Restoration. The letters
                    written in the 
                        United States
                     are disappointing, although they contain comments on the election of 1824, the slavery
                    controversy, and the panic of 1837.
            The personality of William Lee is fascinating. Contact with 
                        France
                     after the Revolution strained his republican principles. "I begin to dislike
                    this liberty and equality," Lee writes. "I think myself superior to a bawd or a
                    pickpocket" (p. 12). But his republicanism triumphed in the end, and Lee remained a
                    Francophile throughout life. His writings also record unwittingly the transformation wrought in a
                    New 
                        England
                     puritan by the pleasures of French life. These letters portray their author as a
                    faithful husband, a kind father, and a strange composite of idealism and common sense.
            The scholar will regret Miss Mann's decision to correct spelling and punctuation and her
                    omission of portions of the letters which are "too detailed…or simply
                    statistical" (p. x). Three memoirs prepared by Lee on the relations between 
                        France
                     and the 
                        United States
                     are omitted without comment by the editor. Some reference to their content  and location would have been useful. Miss Mann also mentions many
                    letters written by Lee to officials in 
                        Washington
                     protesting the assumption of authority by David Warden after the death of Joel Barlow,
                    American Minister to 
                        France
                    . Despite their apparent importance these letters are also omitted. Deciding which
                    letters of a collection to publish is the thankless task of an editor, but on the whole Miss Mann, a
                    great great granddaughter of William Lee, has performed her task with taste and accuracy.
            William Lee as a recorder of events was not without faults, but even his prejudices flavor rather
                    than detract from his letters. Allan Nevins in his Foreword calls A Yankee
                    Jeffersonian "a delightful find." Few readers will dispute his choice of
                    adjectives.
            
               Indiana University Joseph C. Burke
         
         
            
               Army Life on the Western Frontier: Selections from the Official Reports Made Between
                        1826 and 1845 by Colonel George Croghan. Edited by Francis Paul Prucha. (
                        Norman
                    : University of Oklahoma Press, 1958. Pp. xxxvi, 187. Map, illustrations,
                    bibliographical note, appendix, index. $4.00.)
            This book is an illuminating document, not only on army life on the frontier, but on the sorry state
                    of American military establishments in the West during the second quarter of the nineteenth century.
                    It contains a brief Introduction by the editor, and the main text consists of selections from the
                    official reports submitted by Colonel George Croghan, Inspector General for the western posts.
            Colonel Croghan was a nephew of George Rogers and William Clark, and he too had emerged as a national
                    hero—for his command and successful defense of Fort Stephenson during a British attack
                    during the War of 1812. As Inspector General, Colonel Croghan made periodic tours of the two
                    thousand mile western military perimeter which extended in zig-zag fashion from Fort Brady at Sault
                    Ste. Marie in the north to Fort 
                        Jackson
                    , sixty-five miles below 
                        New Orleans
                     on the Mississippi River. In all, Colonel Croghan inspected twenty-seven
                    forts—some as many as nine times—during his years of intendancy,
                    1826–1845. The Colonel's duties were to report to the General-in-Chief on such
                    matters as the suitability of fort locations, dispersements of troops, the strength or lack of it of
                    the garrisons, and supplies as well as on general discipline, morals, and health of army personnel.
                    For this he was admirably qualified, even though his heavy indulgence in spirits disrupted, at
                    times, orderly procedures.
            The reports, had they been made public at the time of their writing, would doubtless have been
                    unsettling. In Croghan's opinion, "All the forts in the Indian
                    country…seem to have been constructed solely with a view to the comfortable accomodation
                    of the troops engaged in their erection and without even a thought about the strength of the
                    garrisons that might eventually be assigned to them, or of the fact of their being important links
                    in the great chain of connection between the northwest and southwest points of our interior
                    frontier" (p. 22). Croghan found army personnel more involved with self-sustaining
                    agricultural  pursuits than with strictly military matters. By
                    and large, the equipment was inadequate, efficiency low, and capability for withstanding Indian
                    attacks nil at many of the establishments. Beginning with Fort Brady, Colonel Croghan asks,
                    "Why this place is dignified with the name of fort I can not imagine, for it is fitted for
                    neither offensive or defensive purposes" (p. 35). He held that public funds were shamefully
                    wasted upon Fort Atkinson. The stables at Fort Leaven-worth he found "execrable, worse than
                    the worst stables at the worst country taverns…." (p. 45) and completely out of
                    the protective range of the guardhouse. Moreover, the administration and services at the forts were
                    likewise in a deplorable state. However, soldiers at most of the western posts ate simply and well.
            Viewed in their entirety, these reports are incisive, highly informative, and thought-provoking. The
                    Introduction by Francis Paul Prucha is well-written and provides a basis for an appreciation of the
                    documents. But inasmuch as these reports expose the flagrant inadequacies of military defenses
                    during the period indicated, one wishes that Father Prucha would have provided his own considered
                    evaluation of army life on the frontier. He is, on the whole, content to let Colonel Croghan tell
                    his story with a minimum of challenges or corroborations. Critical footnotes are few and far
                    between.
            
               Indiana University Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         Pierce: Young Hickory of the Granite Hills. Second edition. By Roy 
                        Franklin
                     Nichols. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of Pennsylvania Press, 1958. Pp. xvii, 625. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographies, appendix, index. $8.50.)
            Roy F. Nichols, Vice-Provost and Dean of the Graduate School at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , is one of America's distinguished historians. Few know as much about the
                    1850's in the 
                        United States
                     as the scholar who in 1949 won the Pulitzer Prize for his outstanding volume, The Disruption of American Democracy. Nichols' 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Pierce, an earlier product, lacks the stylistic smoothness of its sequel. But
                    in it there are many evidences of the same painstaking research and understanding of political
                    realities which make the name of Nichols synonymous with the best in history and biography.
            Through the years, experts have stressed Dean Nichols' mastery of partisan and factional
                    intricacies, which so often present dilemmas to students of mid-nineteenth century drift and
                    disaster. Your reviewer has long been equally impressed by the Pennsylvania scholar's
                    interest in related problems of personality. It is provocative, for example, to contemplate the ways
                    in which events and incidents might have been different if promising little Bennie Pierce had not
                    been killed in a railroad accident, after the Fourteenth President's election but before
                    his inauguration. This tragedy certainly had an effect on the American people as a whole through its
                    impact on the boy's mother and father. It was far more consequential than Willie 
                        Lincoln
                    's death during the Civil War. Indeed, a strong case could be built on the
                    premise that no other parental bereavement in the annals of our nation has affected  the lives of so many citizens, young and old, northern and southern, as
                    that of the 
                        Franklin
                     Pierces.
            Let it not be assumed, however, that there is anything of a pseudo-scientific nature in the Nichols
                    approach to matters of this sort. Relying on facts and logic rather than intuition, the writer is
                    restrained and dispassionate as well as probing. But the stereotype of the "weak"
                    Pierce does not satisfy the questor. "It should be noted," Nichols observes,
                    "that prior to 1853" Pierce "had succeeded reasonably well in meeting, at
                    least adequately, the demands made upon him by public life. Had he entered the White House with the
                    confidence which his great victory should have supplied, and been able to live a happy, normal
                    family life, with his nervous system unshaken and, as hitherto, resilient, it may at least be
                    wondered whether he might not have risen to the challenge of the Presidency….
                    Reconsideration of his complex life experience reveals not mere weakness, but a difficult
                    combination of inner conflict, tragedy and national confusion which prevented him from meeting the
                    challenge of his great responsibility" (pp. 536, 546).
            The above quotation is the essence of the difference between the 1931 and 1958 editions of the book,
                    which has not been "Completely Revised" as stated on the copyright page. Aside
                    from Chapter LXXVI and the three-page supplementary bibliography, the revision is substantially the
                    same as the original. Readers, therefore, should approach the new volume not in the hope of
                    discovering page after page of fresh or rearranged details but with the expectation that the
                    reassessment at the end will be well worth their perusal. In conclusion, it seems sensible to say
                    that the chapter entitled "Recasting a Stereotype" ought to be as widely and
                    carefully studied as any fourteen pages in any American biography. For here is a distillation of
                    mature scholarship—the sort of contribution which can be made only by a specialist of
                    Dean Nichols' years, experience, and insights.
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    
            
         
         
            
               Doctors in Gray: The Confederate Medical Service. By H. H. Cunningham. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1958. Pp. xi, 338. Illustrations, appendices,
                    bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            This is the first serious examination and treatment of the ways in which the Confederate States
                    handled their three million cases of disease and wounds. In spite of heroic efforts and conspicuous
                    ingenuity, the non-battlefield deaths far exceeded the battlefield casualties—as they did
                    in the Union forces. The author feels, however, that "all the knowledge of more recent
                    years would not have sufficed to save the lives of many who died from disease in the great conflict
                    of the sixties" (p. 217).
            Cunningham has written an excellent book, and it will not be necessary for any one else to rework the
                    field for many decades. He sets the stage by reviewing briefly the status of medical training in the
                    South in 1860, the development of journals and societies, and the level of medical practice which he
                    concludes was about the same as that of the remainder of the country. There were many discouraging
                    factors  which retarded medical advance, but there were also many
                    hopeful signs.
            Subsequent chapters deal with the organization and administration of the Confederate medical
                    department, the general hospitals, and the prison hospitals. The work of the medical officers in the
                    field, the procurement and manufacture of hospital and medical supplies, the causes and treatment of
                    disease, and surgery and infections are discussed clearly, objectively, and critically. Innovations
                    receive adequate recognition but are not over-emphasized.
            The ever-present problem of personnel was particularly acute—as were many other
                    problems—in the area of and immediately following a major engagement. But under a
                    decentralized supply system, the competent but rather aloof Surgeon General Samuel Preston Moore and
                    his able subordinates accomplished almost superhuman feats. These subordinates
                    included—during the course of the war—a total of 3,237 officers plus
                    numberless stewards, nurses, ward masters, and less specialized workers. The army service was
                    supported by appropriations of almost $74,000,000; the naval service with 107 medical
                    officers was voted nearly $2,000,000.
            Medicines were run through the blockade, contributed by individuals, by societies, by the states, and
                    produced from the vegetation of the region. Cunningham indicates that transportation and
                    distribution caused more headaches than supply. The statistics concerning deaths from surgery should
                    cause many to soften their criticism of Civil War medical practices. In the main, the author thinks
                    that too often twentieth century standards have been applied to nineteenth century medicine, and
                    that too much has been said of the small percentage of ignorant and incompetent men in the medical
                    arm. In many instances, successful treatment of the sick and wounded was not within the power of any
                    doctor or any combination of men, and perhaps the picture was succinctly limned by the surgeon who
                    said, "We did not do the best we would, but the best we could" (p. 265).
            The variety of sources consulted and the fragmentary nature of some of these sources would have made
                    extensive footnoting difficult and almost meaningless. All but the most pedantic will be satisfied
                    with the explanatory notes and the unusually comprehensive bibliography.
            
               Indiana University Chase C. Mooney
         
         
            
               High Tide at 
                            Gettysburg
                        : The Campaign in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
               . By Glenn Tucker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 1958. Pp. viii, 462. Maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            In the summer of 1863, following Lee's victory over Hooker at Chancellorsville, the time was
                    right for the Confederacy once again to take the offensive. Of the several plans submitted for this
                    movement—the last large-scale offensive effort of the
                    Confederacy—Lee's proposal for the invasion of Pennsylvania by way of the
                    Shenandoah Valley was the one adopted as promising the greatest military, political, and diplomatic
                    rewards. Consequently the newly reorganized Army of Northern Virginia began in early June an advance
                    northward that ended a month later in its repulse at 
                        Gettysburg
                    .
            
            It is the military action of this month that Glenn Tucker, a former 
                        Washington
                     newspaper correspondent, describes in a book that reaches its climax, as did the
                    campaign, in the three days' battle at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . As a reporter's account of the battle, the book has considerable merit.
                    Dispassionate and straightforward, High Tide at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                accurately reports the operations in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , although occasional minor errors remind one that even as reporter's copy the
                    work leaves something to be desired. For example, there were thirteen not eleven stars in the
                    South's "new red flag" (p. 253). Moreover, the prosaic style seldom
                    captures for the reader the high excitement that the author obviously feels for the events. The
                    treatment frequently is little more than a brigade by brigade report that loses sight of the epic
                    sweep of the action in dreary and often meaningless recital of detail. Tucker seems not to
                    understand that a great battle is sometimes more than a mere summary of its parts.
            More serious, however, are Tucker's shortcomings in his evaluation of the historical
                    importance of the battle. He is not alone in viewing 
                        Gettysburg
                     as the "high tide" of the Confederacy, a point to which he
                    continually refers (pp. vi, 4, 64, 379, 395), but certainly there is considerable weight in the
                    contrary argument that high tide had been reached in September, 1862, with Lee in Maryland and Bragg
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and that the 
                        Gettysburg
                     campaign was but a surface flucta-tion in the ebb tide of the Confederacy. In this
                    light it is difficult to see 
                        Gettysburg
                     as the decisive battle of the war. As Tucker points out, it took "twenty-two
                    months of desperate fighting" for the vastly superior Union forces to confirm the results
                    of the battle. Is it therefore reasonable to assume that a Southern triumph, "at fearful
                    price," would have been any more likely to bring a speedy conclusion of the war? Considered
                    realistically, the invasion of the North was a desperate attempt to stem the tide already flowing
                    against the Confederacy, rather than the point at which the Confederacy's tide of fortune
                    reached its height.
            In discussing the battle and its participants Tucker states correctly that "character played
                    a more decisive role than caprice" (p. vii). Yet, there is much that can only be called
                    chance in Tucker's listed reasons for the battle's outcome. The fortuitous capture
                    of Lee's correspondence and Pender's untimely death, both of which Tucker lists as
                    of vital importance, merely point up this fact. Additionally, the author proposes to deal with the
                    participants impartially, especially General James Longstreet. Without going into the entire
                    Longstreet controversy it is perhaps fair to say that at 
                        Gettysburg
                     Longstreet gave Lee something less than full and sincere cooperation. Thus
                    Tucker's objective appraisal of Longstreet has the earmarks of an apology. Nor, it is worth
                    noting, does the author's impartiality extend quite so far in the case of A. P. Hill.
                    Tucker seems to have more zeal in pleading what he possibly regards as an unpopular cause than
                    concern for a just estimate of the man.
            
               
                        Gettysburg
                     was not in this reviewer's opinion high tide for the Confederacy. High Tide at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                likewise fails to reach the high water mark among the numerous accounts of the
                    battle.
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                John A. Jenkins
         
         
         
            
               The Union Reader. Edited by Richard B. Harwell. (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green and Co., 1958. Pp. xxii, 362. Illustrations, index. $7.50.)
            Mr. Harwell has accomplished a first-rate job in selecting and arranging documents of participants to
                    tell the story of the nation at war. Though a compilation, The Union Reader
                    presents a chronological narrative of the history of the Civil War. Through the words of men and
                    women who lived during the period, the book portrays scenes and emotions with a vivid reality. The
                    wide variety of items include official orders and reports, presidential papers, personal letters of
                    a wide range of personalities, contemporary narratives, songs, etc. There are serious selections,
                    and some not so serious. There are selections written by persons in the battle areas and by those in
                    communities engulfed by the war. Limited familiar pieces are included.
            It is difficult to write an adequate textual review of a book of this type. Selected high lights that
                    particularly impressed this reviewer were: documents on 
                        Lincoln
                    's efforts to get McClellan to engage the enemy, another on the pattern of
                    raising a volunteer company, an account about a city occupied by the Confederates, an
                    officer's praise for Negro troops, battle accounts from all ranks, accounts of life in
                    prison, a document reflecting a citizen's concern for disloyalty in the North, and a great
                    piece about a day in a hospital by Louisa May Alcott.
            This volume should have wide reader appeal. It is good history with great human interest. The general
                    reader, who must frequently get lost in collections with limited organization, will be able to
                    follow a definite pattern of development. An even dozen illustrations add to the attractiveness of
                    the book. Their value might have been greater if they had been located nearer to related text
                    material.
            This reviewer repeats with approval the words of Mr. Harwell's Introduction: "The Union Reader is a history of many hands. In nearly every case the writers were
                    eye witnesses, even participants in the events they describe….In their words lies the
                    documentation of America at war—….In their words, hot from the heart, that the
                    Americans of another day wrote for each other their day remains alive. This, then, is their own
                    story, the story of the war they fought. This is The Union Reader."
            
               Central Missouri State College Perry McCandless
         
         
            
               With Sherman to the Sea: The Civil War Letters Diaries & Reminiscences of
                        Theodore F. Upson. Second edition. Edited by Oscar O. Winther. Introduction by Bell I.
                    Wiley. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1958. Pp. xxviii, 181. Illustrations, map.
                    $3.75.)
            As a part of its Civil War Centennial Series, the Indiana University Press has
                    republished Theodore Upson's valuable and entertaining Civil War memoirs. Since their first
                    publication in 1943 by the Louisiana State University Press, the writings of Upson have been used as
                    source  materials by Civil War historians, and Upson himself has
                    become the model for at least one fictional hero.
            The book and Mr. Winther's able job of editing were first reviewed in this magazine by John
                    D. Barnhart (XXXIX [June, 1943], 195–196). This reviewer agrees with Professor Barnhart
                    that the dating of some passages is a bit confusing and that more attention might have been paid to
                    letting the reader know which material was written on the scene and which was added or edited later
                    by Upson. In addition, Mr. Winther or his source was misinformed as to the location of Camp Morton
                    (see footnote 3, p. 25). The campsite was the old State Fair grounds, not a woods.
            These are minor criticisms, however, when considered in relation to the whole, for this volume is one
                    of the best of its kind published to date. Upson's simplicity and naivete make him one of
                    the more remarkable Civil War diarists and writers. Fortunately his later additions and memoirs
                    retain enough of those youthful traits to let us see the war through the eyes of an awe-struck,
                    admiring, wide-eyed, and often fearful country boy, but lend enough maturity to give a proper
                    perspective. This kind of book may explain why there are Civil War buffs, and reading it makes one
                    wish he were a buff himself.
            
               Indiana University Joseph A. Parsons, Jr.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ireland
                         and the American Emigration, 1850–1900. By Arnold Schrier. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of Minnesota Press, 1958. Pp. x, 210. Maps, illustrations, graphs,
                    appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $4.50.)
            The emigration of millions from 
                        Ireland
                     during the last half of the nineteenth century was more significant to 
                        Ireland
                     than to the various countries which received them. While American scholars have been
                    concerned primarily with the processes of assimilation of America's share of those millions
                    into its way of life, Schrier presents the effects of the emigration on 
                        Ireland
                     and its people.
            The wholesale departures caused many changes in the lives of those who remained behind, and the
                    "American wake" (p. 84), the "Yankee letter" (p. 20), and the
                    "Yankee dollar" (p. 110) became fixed parts of the life and customs of 
                        Ireland
                    . Relatives mourned the departure of those going to a strange land, but letters from
                    America might include news of other exiles, money to relieve distress, or a prepaid passage ticket
                    to the land of opportunity and hard work. Superstitions grew from the need to retain the thoughts
                    and affections of the emigrés, and the ballads sung by those at home express a pathetic
                    sense of loss. There were a few repatriations, but those who returned reverted quickly to their
                    native customs.
            According to Schrier, the most tangible influence of the emigration can be traced through study of
                    the effects of the money sent to 
                        Ireland
                    , as well as by study of contraction of the population. Money from relatives in America
                    relieved temporary distress, gave aid to continued migration, and afforded support to nationalistic
                    movements which were futile until the fundamental causes of dissatisfaction could be attacked  by the Irish Land League. In the meantime, individual land
                    holdings became larger, less crowded dwellings were available, wages of laborers slowly increased,
                    and the percentage of paupers slowly declined.
            The author has produced a veritable storehouse of evidence to support his conclusions, and has
                    performed a useful service in placing the Irish immigrant in a perspective which shows the
                    relationship between his presence in America and his absence from his origins. Schrier's
                    use of interviews with people who saw members of their families embark for America and his extensive
                    employment of Irish and English newspaper files and governmental documents give the reader
                    confidence in his scholarship. The bibliography and full appendix should be very helpful to future
                    researchers in the field. Introductions and summaries for each chapter are fortunately of superior
                    quality, since the multiplicity of evidence used by the author is occasionally tedious.
            The reader of this book may wish that Schrier had included information about the migration of the
                    1840's in his book since he frequently refers to that period, and 1850 does not seem to be
                    a logical point of departure. The introductory chapter might have presented a more complete
                    political background for this predominantly cultural study. This reviewer believes that the 222
                    letters noted on page 196 scarcely make a "substantial and representative
                    collection," and is not thoroughly convinced by Schrier's evidence on pages
                    191–192 from which he concludes that the majority of all letters containing money orders
                    received by the 
                        United Kingdom
                     were destined for 
                        Ireland
                    .
            The author appears to have worked exhaustively in the area prescribed for his study. The evidence is
                    presented carefully and convincingly, and the book will be a useful addition to library materials
                    pertaining to national groups in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Clarion State Teachers College Bert Anson
         
         
            
               Henry Adams: The Middle Years. By Ernest Samuels. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. xiv, 514. Appendix, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Henry Adams, in addition to being an historian, was one of the best biographers of the nineteenth
                    century. As such, he had pronounced opinions on this form of literature, and once wrote,
                    "The trouble is that any truthful biography must always define the hero's
                    limitations" (p. 193). Certainly Ernest Samuels in The Middle Yews has
                    followed Adams' own views on biography and has written an honest story of a remarkable man
                    in a not so remarkable age.
            The middle years of Henry Adams comprise the period from 1877 to 1890, during most of which Adams and
                    his wife lived in the center of a select 
                        Washington
                     society. It was a very productive time for Adams when he wrote such works as the
                    biographies of Gal latin and 
                        Randolph
                    , two novels, and his History of the 
                            United States
                        
               . At the same time, Adams led a crowded social life, took time off for travel
                    abroad, and was able to give attention to the latest political, literary, and scientific events.
            
            All his activities and successes notwithstanding, the reader cannot find in this portrait of Henry
                    Adams a happy man. The middle period in Adams' life ended in tragedy—the suicide
                    of his wife—but even before that event, there is seen a pervading sense of disappointment
                    and frustration. The reasons for Adams' lack of satisfaction are clearly shown by the
                    author in his analysis of the character of Henry Adams, who perhaps was a man who could neither live
                    in or with his times. For Adams and his associates, there was much that was wrong with contemporary
                    America. They had fought in the anti-Grant struggle of the 1870's and, having failed in it,
                    some of them, particularly Adams, had come to regard politics with disgust. He could not help
                    thinking that America was changing for the worse, and came in time to question democracy itself. His
                    writings generally distressed him, possibly because the longer he continued, the less he found to
                    support his theories for a "scientific" history.
            As Samuels shows so well, Adams possessed values, those of style and taste, morality and family,
                    which seemed out of place in the late nineteenth century. The reader is led to the conclusion that
                    Henry Adams had unrealized ambitions, and that he saw no honorable and satisfactory avenue by which
                    he might attain them. So he remained on the sidelines, the cynic and critic and at the same time the
                    constructive scholar of much of America's past. In his own words and thoughts he expressed
                    pessimism and irony, but withal possessed a lingering optimism and faith.
            
               The Middle Years is a much needed biography, supplementing in excellent fashion the
                    author's admirable The Young Henry Adams, and filling in much that is
                    missing in The Education. It is more than the life of one man; it presents the
                    plight of many intellectuals in America who feel themselves both attracted and repelled by the world
                    outside the library and who stand on the sidelines knowing that their idealized hopes for their
                    nation can never have reality.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University Robert F. Erickson
         
         
            
               Altgeld's America: The 
                            Lincoln
                         Ideal versus Changing Realities. By Ray Ginger. (
                        New York
                    : Funk & Wagnalls Co., 1958. Pp. 376. Bibliography, index. $4.95.)
            Through a penetrating analysis of the men and events in the history of 
                        Chicago
                     during the decades from 1885 to 1905, sometime Hoosier Ray Ginger tells the story of
                    the testing of American ideals at the turn of the century when the 
                        Lincoln
                     ideal of the dignity of man and equality of opportunity came face to face with
                    industrialism and the struggle for private fortunes. Here, in microcosm, is the whole struggle of
                    free enterprise against monopoly, of labor against capital, of democracy against bossism, of human
                    rights against property rights. Mr. Ginger writes tautly and with objective compassion about people,
                    great and small, who are caught up by forces they cannot control—the Haymarket
                    anarchists; the women and children, and men, too, who worked in the packing houses and sweat shops,
                    hired and fired as though they were automatons; and the ward bosses who accepted bribes from utility
                    companies.
            
            He writes about the merchants, industrialists, lawyers, and street railway magnates—Field,
                    Pullman, Armour, and Yerkes; the politicians and boodlers—Carter Harrison,
                    "Hinky Dink" Kenna, and "Bathouse" John Coughlin. They and
                    others did what they thought best for themselves and saw no conflict between their interests and
                    those of the public. They sweated their employees but contributed generously to provide Christmas
                    baskets for the poor; they wrested favorable franchises from the city council and, at the same time,
                    established the 
                        Chicago
                     Art Institute and patronized the Symphony.
            Mr. Ginger shows the other side of the society of the time, too—he tells of those who
                    fought, and sometimes won, the battle of the individual against increasingly powerful and impersonal
                    economic forces: of Jane Addams and Hull House, Florence Kelley and factory inspection, Clarence
                    Darrow and the reform of the criminal law, Thorstein Veblen and philosophic condemnation of
                    conspicuous consumption, Theodore Dreiser and Upton Sinclair and literary social criticism, Peter
                    Altgeld and pardon for the Haymarket anarchists, and William Rainey Harper and 
                        Chicago
                     University.
            But, for Mr. Ginger, there is no absolute black and white; as he finds good and bad in his villains,
                    so he finds clay feet on his heroes. Darrow the champion of labor took legal fees from business
                    tycoons, Veblen and Sinclair criticized the status quo so savagely that they are looked upon as mad
                    dogs, and Jane Addams accepted contributions from the very men who refused to support social
                    legislation advocated by her.
            In conclusion, Ginger finds that while American society has changed in many material ways in the last
                    fifty years, yet there has been little spiritual change. The struggle to make money and get ahead in
                    the world still goes on, and Ginger feels there is no other goal for the modern American. Ray
                    Ginger's volume is more than a competent history of an era in one city; it is a call for
                    Americans to understand themselves today by taking a long, sharp look at their past.
            
               MacMurray College Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
            
               American Labor Unions and Polities, 1900–1918. By Marc Karson.
                    (Carbondale, Ill.: Southern Illinois University Press, 1958. Pp. xv, 368. Notes, bibliography,
                    index. $6.50.)
            To the regret of Republicans and businessmen in recent years, labor unions in the 
                        United States
                     have participated more frequently and more earnestly in both national and state
                    elections. They have usually followed the advice of the deified first president of the American
                    Federation of Labor, Sam Gompers, to support labor's friends and defeat its enemies. From
                    1900 to 1918 "friends" always seemed to mean Democrats. The Socialist party or an
                    independent labor party did not receive the support from labor unions which these political groups
                    enjoyed in many other democratic countries, such as Great Britain, the Scandinavian countries, and 
                        Australia
                    . The author of this volume, a student of Harold Laski, has endeavored to analyze the
                    reasons for continued opposition to independent labor parties in the 
                        United States
                    
                     by presenting a vivid picture of three hitherto neglected
                    aspects of the labor movement between 1900 and 1918: (1) the political activity of the American
                    Federation of Labor, (2) the rise and fall of the Industrial Workers of the World, and (3) the
                    influence of the Roman Catholic church in fighting Socialists in the trade union movement.
            The thought-provoking, objective, and brilliant essays on these subjects display a broad knowledge of
                    the material used and contribute significantly to knowledge of subjects discussed. The book is
                    written with a lucid, concise style. Quotations are very appropriate. Psychoanalyses of labor
                    leaders, notably Daniel DeLeon and Samuel Gompers, are written ably by an author interested in
                    psychology.
            Instead of being the definitive work on a complicated subject, however, Karson's book still
                    may be a pioneering study. For example, in the last chapter the author lists his reasons why this
                    country has not favored an independent labor party: (1) the vitality of American capitalism, (2) the
                    middle-class psychology of American workers, (3) the American's faith in individual rights,
                    (4) the conservative features of the American political system, (5) the anti-Socialist position of
                    the Roman Catholic church, (6) the anti-Socialist leadership of Samuel Gompers. These considered
                    judgments of the author are not well documented in this chapter, and the problems he examines could
                    be studied further either by classifying the thought of labor leaders, according to a method similar
                    to the one Professor Cochrane has used with railroad entrepreneurs, or by studying the development
                    of separate institutions. For example, is the American capitalistic system a distinctive
                    contribution to the world because of the anti-trust laws, the regulation of monopoly, and the
                    mobility of labor among social classes?
            Even the whole question of labor unions in politics needs further exploration: the attitude of
                    railroad brotherhoods and other labor unions, the labor politics of William 
                        Randolph
                     Hearst, and the lobbying activities by both laborers and manufacturers. No mention is
                    made in this book of the important Mulhall lobbying investigation of 1913. How much control did
                    manufacturers have over the voting of their laborers? How much influence did labor spies have on
                    union political activities? What political devices were used by manufacturers and retailers? These
                    and other topics still require investigation.
            
               Purdue University Roger Mayhill
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            "Thirty Three Years" in the History of Lawrence County, Indiana,
                        1884–1917. By James M. Guthrie. (
                        Bedford
                    , Ind.: Published by the author, 1958. Pp. 223. Numerous illustrations, maps,
                    chronology, index. $10.00.) Mr. Guthrie presents much interesting information about
                    Lawrence County with emphasis on the years 1884 to 1917. He writes with understanding and zest, and
                    he exhibits a desire to portray Lawrence County's history as faithfully as possible. The
                    general picture which emerges is embedded in reality. Moreover, much is here offered which
                    illustrates both regional and national history. The numerous pictures used are a valuable part of
                    this history. Unfortunately, however, the volume includes errors of fact and printing errors which
                    more thorough editing should have eliminated. The sources used regarding particular topics are
                    seldom indicated. Such defects are obvious, but it is equally true that Guthrie's volume
                    has substantial merit. It can be read with profit by persons within and without Lawrence County, and
                    it is a welcome addition to the county histories of Indiana.
            
               Indiana, "Hoosier State": New Historical Atlas of Indiana.
                    Compiled by Olin Dee Morrison. Indiana Series, Volume II. (
                        Athens
                    , O.: E. M. Morrison, 1958. Pp. ix, 308. Index. $9.00.) A good historical
                    atlas of Indiana has long been needed. Thus the atlas under review was examined with hope and with
                    more than ordinary interest. Unfortunately, however, it generally fails to indicate sources for the
                    data used, various maps include items which lack relevant explanations, many of the maps are poorly
                    drawn, and the materials used are at times poorly organized. A good historical atlas of Indiana is
                    still needed.
            
               Indiana in World Perspective. Edited by Taulman A. Miller and Schuyler F. Otteson.
                        Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences,
                        New Series, Volume II. (
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.: Officers of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, 1957. Pp. viii, 142.) It
                    is encouraging to observe the desirable efforts of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences to
                    record their Proceedings. This volume, however, seems to lack well-prepared papers
                    which, in turn, lack appropriate pruning and careful editing. It is hoped that the worthwhile
                    endeavor represented by the Academy's New Series will show in the future
                    the solid improvement necessary for it to become a significant series.
            
               Catalogue of the Publio Schools of Morristown, Ind., 1886–7. Reprint. (
                        Shelbyville
                    , Ind.: 
                        Shelby County
                     Historical Society, 1957. Pp. 22.) In 1957 the 
                        Shelby County
                     Historical Society reprinted this public school catalog. It includes the names of
                    teachers and students, subjects taught in the eight elementary grades and in the first two years of
                    high school, rules and regulations of the school board, etc. According to the principal's
                    report for 1886–1887, the graded system whereby 
                    students would advance grade by grade, then thought to be quite an achievement, had become operative
                    that year. The principal instructed teachers never to use the rod, "a relio of the past," in the school room. If the content of the courses taught even
                    partly resembled the course of study described in this catalog, the Morristown school during the
                    1880's provided better education for its students than is perhaps generally realized. The
                    lack of infomation about sports and extracurricular activities is quite noticeable, but of course
                    the game of basketball had not yet been invented.
            
               A Frontier Cycle. By Avery O. Craven. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne State University Press, for the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, 1958. Pp. 30. $1.00.) This pamphlet makes available the
                    Lewis Cass Lecture for 1957 which was delivered by Professor Avery O. Craven while he was serving as
                    a visiting professor at Wayne University in 
                        Detroit
                    . Its principal theme is the prevalence of sickness and the battle against it within the
                    Old Northwest during pioneer days. Dr. Craven makes clear that the deplorable conditions which
                    existed were largely the result of general ignorance, though perhaps he leaves the unfortunate
                    impression that conditions on the frontier were substantially worse than those in the older states.
                    The expression of indebtedness to Professor R. C. Buley at the end of the booklet is especially
                    appropriate since it would doubtless be apparent to many readers long before arriving at the final
                    page.
            
               Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        's "House Divided" Address. Reproduction. With
                    Introduction by Clyde C. Walton. Illinois State Historical Society Pamphlet
                    Series, No. 1. (
                        Springfield
                    : Illinois State Historical Society, 1958. Pp. 16.) This pamphlet is a reproduction, in
                    old style type, of a rare first printing of 
                        Lincoln
                    's "House Divided" speech at 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , in 1858. A reading of this brief speech suggests the observation
                    that reading from 
                        Lincoln
                     is frequently much more rewarding than is reading about him. Possibly
                    persons planning 
                        Lincoln
                     centennial observances should at least consider ways and means of encouraging increased
                    reading from, as well as further reading about
                    
                        Lincoln
                    .
         
         
         
            Historical Materials Deposited in Indiana Libraries
            The historical materials described below have been placed in the Indiana University Library for
                    preservation. The Indiana Magazine of History has been instrumental in the deposit
                    of these materials and lists them here for the infonnation of interested persons. The editor invites
                    correspondence about letters, diaries, journals, and other documents which offer significant
                    information concerning the historical development of Indiana or the Old Northwest. At times, such
                    documents can be published in the Indiana Magazine of History. Regardless of
                    whether or not they are publishable, the editor will be glad, whenever possible, to offer guidance
                    about desirable depositories.
            1. Civil War Journal of Stephen Keyes Fletcher. This diary narrates Fletcher's experiences
                    as a member of the Thirty-third Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Infantry, during part of 1861 and the
                    greater part of 1862. The Journal appeared in its entirety in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, June, 1958. It has been deposited in the Indiana University Library by Maxwell
                    Keyes Fletcher, 111.
            2. Letter from Attia Porter to her cousin, John C. Andrews, July 30, 1863. This letter describes the
                    Battle of Corydon. It has been deposited in the Indiana University Library and was received from
                    Arville L. Funk.
            3. J. F. Turner, "Recollections of a Greencastle Re-publican Rally in 1888." This
                    typescript contains reminiscences of the Cleveland-Harrison campaign in Putnam County, Indiana. Fred
                    H. Turner has deposited this material in the Indiana University Library.
         
         
         
            The Bobbs-Merrill Company
            Samuel Merrill established the publishing firm eventually to be known as the Bobbs-Merrill Company at
                    Indianapolis in 1838, only two decades after the Indian title to the region around the city had been
                    extinguished. In 1822 the General Assembly had elected Merrill as state treasurer; and in 1825, when
                    Indianapolis succeeded Corydon as the state capital, it was Merrill's task to arrange for
                    the removal of state property to the new capital. An historic wagon train, conducted by the state
                    treasurer, spent two weeks making the trip of about 160 miles in daily treks varying from two to
                    eleven miles.
            Although Samuel Merrill founded his publishing company in 1838, it was not until 1895, when William
                    C. Bobbs became associated with the firm, that i t was known as Bobbs-Merrill. In 1899 Bobbs-Merrill
                    published Charles Major's When Knighthood was in Flower, which sold over
                    a million copies and helped usher in the era of best sellers. In 1900 the company published L. Frank
                    Baum's Wizard of Oz, which became an unusually popular book for children.
                    Bobbs-Merrill has also published books by James Whitcomb Riley, George Ade, James Oliver Curwood,
                    Bruce Barton, Ring Lardner, Mary Roberts Rinehart, Kenneth Roberts, John Erskine, Irvin S. Cobb, and
                    many other writers. In the juvenile field, its Childhood of Famous American Series
                    now numbers more than one hundred titles.
            Bobbs-Merrill, then, has deep roots among Hoosiers, and its Hoosier associations and flavor have been
                    maintained through the years. Late in 1958, Bobbs-Merrill was acquired by Howard W. Sams &
                    Company of Indianapolis, an organization that has specialized in technical publications. According
                    to Howard W. Sams, however, Bobbs-Merrill will retain its present identity and will continue with
                    its educational, legal, and trade books. D. Laurance Chambers, associated with Bobbs-Merrill for
                    more than fifty years, is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of the new firm, while Colonel Robert L.
                    Moorhead continues as Honorary Secretary-Treasurer. With the Sesquicentennial of Indiana Statehood
                    coming up in the decade immediately ahead it is hoped that the Bobbs-Merrill tradition, which has
                    included the publication of numerous books concerning Indiana, will be continued and
                strengthened.
         
         
         
            Back Copies of the Indiana Magazine of History
            
            Copies are currently available at $2 each for all issues of Volumes I (1905) through XXI
                    (1925) except the following numbers which are depleted from the inventory: 
                  
                     Volume and Year
                     Issues not Available
                  
                  
                     I (1905)
                     March, June, September, December
                  
                  
                     I1 (1906)
                     March, June, December
                  
                  
                     I11 (1907)
                     March, June, September, December
                  
                  
                     VII (1911)
                     December
                  
                  
                     VIII (1912)
                     March
                  
                  
                     X (1914)
                     March
                  
                  
                     XI (1916)
                     March, December
                  
                  
                     XVII (1921)
                     September, December
                  
                  
                     XVIII (1922)
                     March
                  
                  
                     XXI (1926)
                     June, September
                  
               
            
            
                    Copies of all issues from Volume XXII (1926) to the present are available and may be
                        purchased for $1 each.
                
            A 25% discount is given on orders for back copies totaling $10 or more, but
                    this discount does not apply to orders for either of the General Indexes. Libraries or interested
                    individuals needing copies of numbers missing from our inventory are invited to indicate their
                    needs, since now and then additional back copies are received which make it possible to meet
                    requests for issues previously not in stock. Persons having back copies of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History that they no longer need are invited to correspond with the editor,
                    indicating the issues that they have. The Magazine is interested in the possible
                    purchase of back copies depleted from the inventory as well as other issues for which the inventory
                    is low.
            Copies of the General Index for Volume I-XXV (1905-1929) are available for $3 each, and
                    copies of the General Index for Volumes XXVI-L (1930-1954) may be purchased for $5 each.
                    If ordered together, the two Indexes are $7.50. The 25% discount,
                        as indicated above, does not apply to purchases of Indexes.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
