
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 63, Issue 3, pages 177-262. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:63+issue:3+year:1967&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Indiana Newspapers and the Presidential Election of 1824
            Thomas W. Howard*
            
            Indiana voters awaited the presidential election of 1824 with a growing
                    conviction that they had come of age for national politics. A writer in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun no doubt expressed the sentiments of many of his
                    fellow citizens when he proudly announced the demise of the West as "a
                    feudal appendage to the republic." During the territorial period the
                    West had had no vote in Congress, but, this writer proclaimed: 
                        Time … has worked wonderful changes in our condition. Instead
                            of being the supplicants—instead of bowing and cringing to
                            our elders—we have, beyond a precedent in the history of
                            nations, ripened into maturity, & taken our rank among our
                            sister states. It is for us to improve the advantage—instead
                            of obedience, we now have the right to command, and should we remain
                            united, the question of the next president must be left to us.
                     With the bravado of a frontiersman who felt himself the equal of all
                    challengers, this Westerner assured his "Atlantic brethren"
                    that the time was fast approaching "when the seat of empire will be
                    moved this side the Alleghanies. The election of a Western president is but an
                    entering wedge of Western power… ."1
            
            It is impossible to know if all voters in the state were this excited about the
                    forthcoming election, but the evidence suggests that many were. In the two
                    previous presidential contests in which Indiana had participated, there had been
                    little objection to the selection of the state's electors by the
                    general assembly, since voters strongly supported the Jeffersonian Republicans
                    and their candidate, James 
                        Monroe
                    . But by 1824 the Era of Good Feelings had drawn to a close. The
                    Republican party openly split into factions; and several presidential
                    candidates, each wishing to be the party's standard bearer, won varying
                    degrees of support. The election of 1824, the first true presidential contest in
                    Indiana, was 
                  
                     * Thomas W. Howard is a doctoral
                            candidate in history and editorial assistant of the Journal
                                of American History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 23, 1822.
               
                     greatly facilitated by the passage of an
                    act by the general assembly on January 14, 1824, giving voters the right to
                    choose the state's five presidential electors.2
            
            Taking advantage of this change in the law, 37.5 per cent of Indiana's
                    eligible voters participated in the presidential election. The national average
                    was 26.5 per cent, and in only five of the other seventeen states in which
                    voters selected presidential electors was there a greater percentage of turnout.
                    Indiana's record is especially impressive compared with some of the
                    older states. In 
                        Massachusetts
                     29.1 per cent of the eligible voters expressed their presidential
                    preferences; in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 19.6 per cent; and in 
                        Virginia
                    , 11.5 per cent.3
            
            This political interest is even more striking when viewed against the frontier
                    conditions of Indiana in the 1820's. Roads were few, and the isolated,
                    self-sufficient farmer seldom traveled far from his homestead or had visitors
                    from distant parts of the state.4 Nevertheless, he did
                    manage to have some contact with politics. Office seekers were often present at
                    auctions, at the county seat on court days, or at logrollings and cabin
                    raisings. Seasoned politicians traveled about the state from settlement to
                    settlement, homestead to homestead, seeking support and discussing issues. Even
                    circuit-riding ministers could sometimes be relied upon for political news, and
                    some of them attempted to win support for their favorite candidates.5 The militia musters of the period frequently served more
                    as social and political meetings than as exercises in military training.6 Despite handicaps, Indiana citizens managed to enter
                    national politics with a fervor that has characterized the state ever since.
                    Their attitude was typified by a meeting of citizens in 
                        Greene County
                     in 1823. Having expressed their presidential preference, they
                    resolved that 
                  
                     2 Indiana, Revised Laws
                            (1823-1824), 174-79.
                  
                     3 Richard P. McCormick, "New Perspectives
                            of Jacksonian Politics," American Historical
                                Review, LXV (January, 1960), 292.
                  
                     4 Logan Esarey, ‘(Pioneer Politics in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII
                            (June, 1917), 109-10. This acocunt probably overemphasizes the degree of
                            isolation.
                  
                     5 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old
                                Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), II, 37, 38.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., I, 333n. For example, the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, October 21, 1823, reported that the
                            "commissioned and staff officers of the fifth brigade, Ia.
                            Militia, composed of the counties of Jefferson, Jennings, 
                                Ripley
                             and Scott, being assembled at Camp creek, in the county of
                            Jefferson, at a drill muster, proceeded to the nomination of a suitable
                            person for President of the 
                                United States
                            ."
               
                     "the people of this republic on
                    this occasion ought to meet not only in cities and towns, but on their farms and
                    in the forests, and express their opinions, and have them published, throughout
                    the 
                        United States
                    ." They explained that "although this meeting is
                    in the wilds of Indiana, it entreats the people of every section of this
                    republic to response."7
            
            Newspapers were the major source of information about national politics in early
                    Indiana, and as such they usually left much to be desired. This was not always
                    the fault of the editors, who had difficulty operating their businesses in what
                    was largely a barter economy, who were often hard pressed to find sufficient
                    news for even their small four-page weeklies, and who at times could not obtain
                    newsprint to maintain regular publication.8 Editors often
                    reprinted items from papers of other states and thus offered at least a glimpse
                    of the national scene. However, the news reported did not have the immediacy
                    found in contemporary papers, and it often lacked continuity.9 While this was a serious shortcoming, it gave the papers a temporary
                    timelessness which encouraged people to read and reread them regardless of
                    datelines. The good quality of rag paper on which they were printed made it
                    possible for them to pass through many hands, and the limited number of
                    subscribers to a paper was not always an indication of the number of people who
                    read it. 
                  
                     7 Quoted in Esarey, "Pioneer Politics in
                            Indiana," 114.
                  
                     8 Editors often accepted commodities as payment.
                            The 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, June 11, 1824-February 4, 1825,
                            regularly stated that "Produce, at market price, will be
                            received in payment of subscribers residing in the county of 
                                Switzerland
                            ." The Centreville Western
                            Emporium, December 18, 1824, contained the current rate of exchange
                            for acceptable commodities, including corn, oats, sugar, tallow, butter,
                            beeswax, chickens, feathers, onions, and whiskey. For an example of the
                            problem of obtaining newsprint, see 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, August 21-October 16, 1824, during which
                            time the size of the pages was reduced by approximately one half. The
                            editor of the 
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer apologized to his subscribers on
                            February 26, 1825, for the non-appearance of his paper the previous
                            week, explaining that the "gentleman who had contracted to
                            furnish us with paper, went to the mill after a supply; but in
                            consequence of the paper having been sent to 
                                Louisville
                            , he was unable to procure it in time for us to
                            publish."
                  
                     9 Editors frequently found that delays in mail
                            delivery made it impossible to reprint items from other papers while the
                            news was relatively current. On February 17, 1824, the editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette lamented that "the mails due this
                            place last week have failed in their arrival, with the exception of the
                            one from Terre-Haute.—There appears to be considerable want
                            of perseverance in the mail carriers to this place, as travellers are
                            daily arriving from the different places from which mails are
                            due."
               
                     There were approximately fourteen papers
                    being published in Indiana in 1824,10 giving the state one
                    paper for about every 10,500 inhabitants. The national average at this time was
                    one paper for about every 16,000 inhabitants.11 Although
                    newspapers were crude by modern standards, their circulation limited, and their
                    editors often politically unsophisticated, the absence of any competing news
                    media enhanced their significance.12
            
            The presidential election of 1824 was the first national campaign in which
                    Indiana editors showed significant interest, and it has often been described as
                    one which involved personalities more than issues.13 The
                    basis on which individual voters were attracted to particular candidates is
                    difficult to assess, and personality may well have been the decisive factor.
                    However, even though political issues were much less sophisticated then than
                    now, and people expected less from the national government than they have since
                    come to do, the newspapers in the state exhibited a strong concern for the
                    importance of issues in the election. While Adams' impeccable morality
                    was stressed by his supporters, his opponents publicized his voting record in
                    Congress. 
                        Clay
                    's personal life was discussed pro and con, but his
                    American System also received consideration. Even Jackson, who had no
                    significant political record, had his performance at the 
                        Tennessee
                     consitutional convention reviewed by the press in an attempt to
                    discredit his political views.
            Since editors tried to reflect and to influence public opinion, their concern for
                    issues is an indication that they, at least, felt that more than personality was
                    involved. Their 
                  
                     10 Corydon Indiana Gazette, May
                            19, 1824.
                  
                     11 W. H. Venable, Beginnings of
                                Literary Culture in the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley: Historical and Biographical Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1891), 43; U.S., Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                : Colonial Times to 1957 (
                                Washington
                            , 1960), 7, 13. These figures are approximations based upon
                            Venable's estimate of total papers in 1824 and census figures
                            for 1820.
                  
                     12 For useful discussions of the pioneer press,
                            see Buley, Old Northwest, II, 489-523; Ralph Leslie Rusk,
                                The Literature of the Middle Western Frontier (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926), I, 131-57.
                  
                     13 See, for example, Adam A. Leonard,
                            "Personal Politics In Indiana 1816 to 1840," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XIX (March, 1923), 1-56. Leonard asserts that
                            "the one issue of the campaign" of 1824 was
                            "the personality of Andrew Jackson" (p. 26). More
                            recently, Buley, Old Northwest, II, 26, recognized
                            that issues were of some importance by 1824; and he stresses
                            "the tariff, internal improvements, distrust of an
                            officeholding class, and the personality of Andrew Jackson" as
                            issues "which dominated the campaign."
               
                     papers offer insight into issues and
                    attitudes which probably concerned at least a part of the voters. Any
                    generalizations based upon an examination of the state's newspapers are
                    in part a distortion, since few people could have had access to all the papers
                    and presumably some would not have read views contrary to their own even if they
                    had been available.14 However, the construction from several
                    papers of a composite image of the candidates and issues is justifiable.
                    Information and opinions that a voter found in his local paper were probably
                    supplemented by political discussion and gossip. This combination could give him
                    material for thought comparable to the collective image which emerges from a
                    survey of several newspapers.
            Potential presidential candidates were being mentioned in the Indiana press by
                    1822. The list of hopefuls included such national figures as Secretary of State
                    John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Secretary of the Treasury William H. Crawford of 
                        Georgia
                    , Secretary of War John C. Calhoun of 
                        South Carolina
                    , Speaker of the House of Representatives Henry 
                        Clay
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and General Andrew Jackson of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Among the lesser luminaries, Governor De Witt Clinton of 
                        New York
                     was the best known.15 The field narrowed as the
                    election approached; and only Adams, Crawford, 
                        Clay
                    , and Jackson remained as serious contenders. Calhoun voluntarily
                    removed himself from the contest by seeking the vice-presidency.16
            
            The political issues that emerged in the Indiana newspapers were complex and
                    often interrelated. They included a growing concern about the nomination of
                    candidates by caucus, republican principles, the national bank, militarism,
                    slavery, the tariff, internal improvements, and sectionalism. Intertwined with
                    the issues were judgments on the morality 
                  
                     14 Because of limited newspaper circulation,
                            editors sometimes felt that it was useless to debate issues with their
                            rivals. In refuting charges made by the Corydon Indiana
                                Gazette, the editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Gazette observed that "AS this paper and the
                            Corydon Gazette do not circulate in the same part of
                            the state, it would be an act of justice for Mr. Brandon [editor of the
                            Corydon Gazette] to re-publish the above remarks." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, October 7, 1823.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Weekly Intelligencer, March 20, 1822.
                  
                     16 Calhoun appeared on the 1824 Indiana ballot as
                            the running mate of both Jackson and Adams. Nathan Sanford, chancellor
                            of 
                                New York
                            , was 
                                Clay
                            's running mate. Dorothy Riker and Gayle
                            Thornbrough (comps.), Indiana Election Returns,
                            1816-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 4-9.
               
                     and qualifications of the candidates. While
                    there was much mudslinging and namecalling, it was not excessive when compared
                    to subsequent campaigns.17
            
            The issue which received most attention in the state's newspapers and
                    around which other issues gravitated concerned which candidate best represented
                    the republican principles of his party. These principles were never defined
                    during the campaign, but as represented they often contained a strong expression
                    of the growing desire for increased democracy.
            Early in the campaign Crawford was portrayed in various Indiana newspapers as the
                    logical choice of the Republican party. One writer predicted in 1822 that his
                    "unchangeable republican principles" would secure his
                    election. Another reminded voters that Crawford had a strong claim to party
                    support, since seven years earlier, though not a candidate, the congressional
                    caucus had given him only a few votes less than 
                        Monroe
                     for the presidential nomination. Thus at this early date
                    "near one half of the republican representatives of the nation
                    acknowledged his worth." This person predicted that the political
                    struggle in 1824 would be between Crawford and Adams, "or in other
                    words, between republicanism and aristocracy."18
                    Elijah Lacey, editor of the 
                        Richmond
                     Weekly Intelligencer, endorsed Crawford in 1822 in the belief that
                    "his virtues, talents, firmness and patriotism will ever be
                    recollected, and rewarded by the free citizens of this Western
                    country." Lacey praised his "strictly accurate and
                    impartial" management of the Treasury Department and the relief that
                    his policies had given to western debtors. A table of estimated and actual
                    treasury receipts from 1802 to 1821 was printed to substantiate the claim that
                    Crawford had been more accurate than any of his predecessors.19
            
            
               
                  17 For examples of caustic editorials in the
                        1820's and 1830's see Rusk, Literature of the
                            Middle Western Frontier, I, 150-53.
               
                  18
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, November 30, December 21, 1822.
               
                  19
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Weekly Intelligencer, July 31, 1822. John Scott, who
                        originally came to Indiana from 
                     Carlisle, Pennsylvania
                  , established this paper in 1820 after
                        having published the 
                            Brookville
                        
                        Plaindealer for four years. Lacey edited the 
                            Richmond
                         paper for him; and although it was published for four years,
                        the author was unable to locate copies after 1822. In 1824 Scott was elected
                        judge and moved to Centreville, where he established the Western Emporium, which supported Adams in 1824. In 1828 he moved
                        to 
                            Logansport
                        , where he established the Pottawattomie and Miami
                            Times, the first paper published north of the Wabash
                            River. Indiana Biography Series, Indiana Division, Indiana
                        State Library, IV, 107-108.
            
            
            Crawford did receive the congressional caucus nomination, although less than half
                    the members attended. But the man whose republican principles had been praised
                    was soon denounced for having subverted them. Caucus nomination had become so
                    unpopular that on January 7, 1824, Thomas H. Blake introduced a resolution in
                    the Indiana House of Representatives condemning the practice as a threat to
                    "the sacred rights, and prosperity and happiness of the American
                    people." The resolution declared that it was the constitutional right
                    of the people to elect the president and vice president "and that any
                    attempt by congressional nominations … to exercise this invaluable
                    privilege … should be regarded by the American people as a dangerous
                    encroachment on their rights, tending to ruin the Republic." Final
                    action on this pronouncement was indefinately postponed by vote of 36 to 8.20
            
            Although not passed, Blake's resolution reflected growing sentiment in
                    Indiana which was detrimental to Crawford. The secretary had been the first of
                    the leading contenders to seek organized support in the state, but he was the
                    least successful. His position as secretary of the treasury gave him influence
                    over state banking, which he hoped to use as the basis for creating a political
                    machine. Dealing with Senator James Noble, he designated the Indiana state bank,
                    with headquarters at 
                        Vincennes
                     and branches at Corydon, 
                        Vevay
                    , and Noble's home town of 
                        Brookville
                    , as a 
                        United States
                     depository. The failure of the state bank and its branches in
                    1821-1822, costing stockholders over $200,000, ended
                    Crawford's influence with most of the state's politicians.21
            
            Left without organized support, Crawford was attacked by his opponents, who
                    examined his earlier political career for evidence that he had never been loyal
                    to the Republican party. He was charged with having been chairman of a 
                        Georgia
                     committee which presented an address to President John Adams
                    approving measures the President had undertaken. And Crawford as a senator had
                    voted against the embargo, 
                  
                     20 Esarey, "Pioneer Politics,"
                            III; Esarey, "Organization of the Jacksonian Party in
                            Indiana," Proceedings of the 
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Association …
                            1913-1914, VII (1914), 223-24.
                  
                     21 Esarey, "Organization of the
                            Jacksonian Party," 226; Buley, Old Northwest,
                            I, 596n.
               
                     "Mr. Jefferson's favorite
                    measure." This was the record of the "only true
                        and genuine Jeffersonian Republican."22
            
            Even Crawford's illness during the campaign was cited to prove his
                    betrayal of republicanism. Rumors were reported in the press that one of his 
                        Georgia
                     friends was seeking the vice-presidency, even though the
                    Constitution provided that the president and vice president should not be
                    elected from the same state. Whether such maneuvering was actually taking place,
                    "it is difficult to say." But a guess could be ventured:
                    "It has sometimes been the practice in king-governed countries, to
                    conceal even the decease of a sovereign, until the succession
                    was settled by the ministers in solemn caucus assembled—but nothing
                    of this sort can present itself as being necessary in this
                        instance."23
            
            Indiana editors abandoned Crawford. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper reprinted an article declaring that the party had not been
                    consulted in his nomination;24 and when a 
                        Vevay
                     paper printed a list of presidential candidates, its only comment
                    was a statement after his name: "The 
                        Washington
                    -city caucus candidate."25 His
                    candidacy could not withstand such charges, and electors pledged to him did not
                    appear on the Indiana ballot.
            The candidate whose Republican credentials were most seriously challenged was
                    Adams. He was suspected of being a Federalist; and the supposed sins of his
                    father, "who violated the rights of the American people, the liberty of
                    speech and of the press" by his approval of the "oppressive
                    and unconstitutional" alien and sedition laws, were by implication
                    charged to him.26 Even those willing to admit that he had
                    become a Republican could not forget that once he had been a "warm and
                    determined federalist," and, they insisted, the 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 22, 1824, quoting Essex Register.
                  
                  
                     23
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, June 26, 1824, quoting Niles' Weekly Register.
                  
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 2, 1824, quoting Buffalo Patriot.
                  
                  
                     25
                            
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, June 11, 1824. William C. Keen,
                            editor of this paper, supported 
                                Clay
                             and served on the 
                                Clay
                             committee of correspondence for 
                                Switzerland County
                            . Ibid. He later became a Whig. After his
                            career as editor, he became postmaster at Printer's Rest in 
                                Switzerland County
                            . Having been tried and found guilty of robbing the mails,
                            he was imprisoned but eventually pardoned by President Martin 
                                Van
                             Buren. Daniel McDonald, A History of
                                Freemasonry in Indiana from 1806 to 1898 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 407.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, February 22, 1823, December 21,
                        1822.
               
                     "evil" of his having once
                    "sided with the aristocratical party" could not be overcome.
                    In fact, when Adams announced his candidacy, it was charged that the entire
                    Federal party in most of the states came to his support. Therefore, it would be
                    "political suicide" for Republicans to support him.27 Adams, wrote one of his opponents, had his
                    father's "mecurial [sic] temper"
                    and until recently had shared his political principles. This writer stated that
                    "the old man and his son thought proper to change their sentiments
                    about the same time—for the old politician may have thought this
                    necessary to secure the son's advancement." But this was a
                    change based on expediency. The candidate did not possess the "fixed
                    political principles," the "pure patriotism," or the
                    "becoming descretion" which would "entitle him to the
                    first office in the gift of a free people."28 Adams
                    was described as "a firey, hot-headed, red-mouthed, aristocratic
                    federalist, until the year 1807, when all of a sudden he was miraculously
                    converted, changed, or metamorphosed into the republican order of
                        things."29 The editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, who supported 
                        Clay
                    , described what he believed to be a plot by the Federalists to
                    elect Adams by supporting Jackson. Since, according to the editor, the
                    Federalists had discovered that Adams had few supporters in the West, they were
                    taking advantage of Jackson's popularity to win votes for the general
                    that would otherwise have gone to 
                        Clay
                    . Thus, they could increase Adams' relative strength at 
                        Clay
                    's expense.30
            
            Adams' name was also linked with the detested caucus. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor quoted one person as stating that he had information in his
                    possession indicating that at a recent session of the Indiana legislature
                    members supporting Adams had held a secret caucus to devise ways to further his
                    election. The editor observed that the "people of Indiana are generally
                    opposed to a Congressional caucus, and the friends of Mr. Adams have been loud
                    in their denunciation of the measure"; but should the report be true,
                    "this secret attempt of a minority of the legislature to deprive the
                    people of their most sacred privilege will be regarded as a more daring
                    infringement 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 2, 1824, quoting Buffalo Patriot.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, December 21, 1822.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 15, 1824, quoting an unidentified
                            newspaper.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 25, 1823.
               
                     of the rights of the people, and will meet
                    with merited contempt."31
            
            Adams' supporters tried to answer these charges. One described him as an
                    "unostentatious republican" with "superior
                        qualifications."32 His friends denied that his
                    background had any bearing upon the present. Wrote one: 
                        He was a federalist once, so was 
                                Madison
                            ; he once made a poor oration, so did Demosthenes; he once
                            wrote poetry, so did Mansfield and Black-stone; and if it will help him,
                            let it be known, that he was altogether the poorest poet of the
                            three… . His life has been spent abroad with republican
                            Quakerism, and he has brought no foreign fashions home.33
                  
                    
            
            Edmund S. Buxton, editor of the 
                        Richmond
                     Public Leger and a vigorous supporter of Adams, found it
                    "paradoxical" that those who opposed 
                        Clay
                     should be called Federalists. He wrote: 
                        Does a man express his detestation of vice and infamy, he is a
                            federalist! Does he dare to say a word against the Slave-holding and the
                            Lawyers candidate, he is a federalist! Does he endeavor to defend
                            morality and religion … from the impious attacks of the
                            irreligious, he is a federalist! In fine let him do what he will, either
                            good or great, he is a federalist!
                     Such tactics, the editor insisted, would not influence "the
                    moral and reflecting part of the people."34
            
            Since Adams was popular with the Quakers, an attempt was made to discredit this
                    group. Buxton reprinted one such effort which expressed alarm that many western
                    preachers and Quakers throughout the nation were supporting Adams. The article
                    recalled the "direful consequences" which had resulted from
                    the friendship "between Episcopalian priests and followers of William
                    Penn, and the mother country, during the revolutionary war." Buxton
                    retorted that "such base slanders deserve the severest
                    reprehension." He denied that Quakers had ever associated with
                    Episcopalian priests and explained that 
                        Quaker
                     doctrines were opposed to all priesthoods. He concluded,
                    "That cause must certainly be a bad 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., March 2, 1824. Information concerning the
                            alleged caucus is from 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer.
                  
                  
                     32
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, June 26, 1824.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer and Farmers' Friend,
                            May 29, 1824, quoting 
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., Mirror.
                  
                  
                     34
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, August 21, 1824. Buxton moved to 
                                Richmond
                             and established the Public Leger in March
                            1824. The paper was published for four years. Indiana Biography Series,
                            IV, 108.
               
                     one that needs such unfounded calumnies to
                    support it. The ‘half-horse, half-alligator’ party appear
                    determined to trample on every thing good, and to effect the election of their
                    Chief [
                        Clay
                    ] by every means, no matter how base."35
            
            In addition to leveling general charges against Adams' republicanism,
                    his opponents also disparaged his record in Congress. Indiana citizens were
                    reminded that in 1803 Adams as a senator was one of a minority of six against
                    the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, only because "party zeal blinded [him] to the
                    interest of the country." On January 26, 1804, he voted against
                    prohibiting the foreign slave trade in 
                        Louisiana
                    ; and on October 31, 1803, he opposed "wearing crape one
                    month, in memory of Samuel Adams and Edmund Pendleton, two of the most
                    distinguished friends of virtue and liberty."36
            
            The Adams men claimed a foul at this, demanding: "Is this fair? Is it
                    candid? Is it just? Where is the man who ever served in a legislative capacity
                    in your councils whose character could stand a test like this?" They
                    explained that Adams had favored the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase and had voted against it only because he considered that
                    part of the bill giving the president temporary power to appoint officials to
                    exercise all military, civil, and judicial powers in the territory to be
                    unconstitutional. He had voted against excluding foreign slave trade in 
                        Louisiana
                     because the Constitution prohibited such limitiation until 1808. He
                    had objected to formal mourning because he feared it would establish a precedent
                    without determining who would be eligible in the future for such honor.37
            
            Adams' supporters insisted that his past record, especially his service
                    in Congress in 1807-1808, was proof of his loyalty to the Republican party. At a
                    time when Anglo-American relations were deteriorating, he had held important
                    Senate committee chairmanships, including that of the committee to which the
                    Senate referred President Jefferson's message on the Chesapeake.
                    "Could there be a stronger evidence of their opinion of his friendship
                    to the Republican Administration?" 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, August 7, 1824. Article quoted is from
                            Eaton Register, July 24, 1824.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, February 22, 1823, quoting 
                                Richmond
                            , Va., Enquirer; for additional criticism
                            of Adams' position on the 
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, July 1, 1823.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, March 8, 15, 1823, quoting 
                                Richmond
                            , Va., Enquirer.
               
                     He had also chaired the committees which
                    dealt with military preparedness and protested British impressment of American
                    sailors. And he had taken a leading role in Senate condemnation of Aaron Burr,
                    which was "most unquestionable evidence of [his] talents and
                    Patriotism." Thus, on the eve of war with Great Britain, his supporters
                    claimed, "the whole subject of our injuries and defence is committed to
                    a man, who is represented hostile to an administration whose friends placed in
                    him unlimited confidence."38
            
            But Adams' opponents always echoed: "He is still at heart a
                        Federalist."39
            
            
               
                        Clay
                     was also accused of failing to adhere to republican principles. His
                    name, too, was associated with caucus nomination. The editor of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger, who during most of the campaign saw the
                    Kentuckian as Adams' chief rival, wrote that "the 
                        Clay
                     party or ‘Caucus Junto’ in Indiana"
                    had tried "to control public opinion" by "secret
                    caucuses and every other species of political intrigue" in order
                    "to hoist a man into office, in opposition to the will of the
                    people." The editor reported that when resolutions condemning caucuses
                    had been before the Indiana General Assembly, certain members who were 
                        Clay
                     partisans had refused to support them, although they did express
                    their disapproval of the principles of caucusing. Then "a few days
                    later, the Janus-politicians met in a secret midnight caucus
                    to nominate their idol, and were prevented doing so, only by
                    the dread of the frowns of their constituents, on their double
                        dealing."40
            
            Although the complicated questions of monetary and fiscal policy were ignored by
                    most Indiana editors, 
                        Clay
                     was criticized for his loose association with the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , which fell into disrepute in Indiana after the failure of the
                    state bank. Voters were reminded that 
                        Clay
                     had not opposed chartering the national bank. The reason, his
                    opponents were certain, was clear: "Because there exist in poor human
                    nature the instinctive faculty of looking to individual
                    benefit, antecedent to indulging in any of those generous, patriotic, and
                    ennobling feelings which alone give happiness to society, dignity to our nature,
                    and independence to a nation." 
                        Clay
                    , when the bank was chartered, was "looking 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 22, 1824, quoting Essex Register.
                  
                  
                     38
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, July 24, 1824.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, June 12, 1824.
               
                     forward to the presidential chair.—He knew that wealth was
                    power. He foresaw with a discerning eye the influence which such an
                    institution would have, and the instrument it might become, of effecting that
                    which talents and political weight would not."41
                    One editor, attempting to demonstrate that the Kentuckian put personal gain
                    above the general welfare, asked rhetorically, "Did Mr. 
                        Clay
                     as attorney of the Bank direct the indiscriminate sueing of the
                    debtors to the Branches in 
                        Ohio
                    ? What is the probable amount of his perquisities [sic] in this business?" Some of 
                        Clay
                    's opponents were unrestrained in expressing fear that he
                    was a threat to the republic. Asked one, "Is he not in favour of
                    consolidating the government by destroying the state governments?"42
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    's supporters answered these charges with generalities,
                    expressing disbelief that anyone could question his republicanism or refuse to
                    support him. "It would be like attacking the illustrious Jefferson; for
                    his measures, his genius, his course, is that of Mr. 
                        Clay
                    ."43 For 
                        Clay
                     was, after all, "a vigilant sentinel of republican
                        principles."44 The rights and liberties of the
                    people would be safe in the hands of this bold defender of South American
                    independence who "is one of the people, is known to be a faithful
                    friend to the Rights of Man, a Republican of the old school, and a
                    Statesman." Faith in the Kentuckian was ably expressed on July 4, 1823,
                    at a celebration in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, at which a toast was offered to "Henry 
                            Clay
                        
               , a genuine republican, a liberal politician and an able
                    statesman; may he continue to shine in the councils of his country, until the
                    halo of his glory shall encircle the presidential chair."45
            
            Jackson, because of his limited ventures into politics and because most editors
                    did not consider him a serious threat to their candidates, was in the best
                    position to avoid charges of party disloyalty.46 The only
                    vigorous newspaper support Jackson received in Indiana was from the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., August 28, 1824, quoting National
                                Republican.
                  
                  
                     42
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 15, 1824.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 2, 1824, quoting Buffalo Patriot.
                  
                  
                     44
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, June 5, 1824, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, January 20, April 13, 1824, July 29, 1823.
                  
                     46 The 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger consistently portrayed 
                                Clay
                             as Adams' chief rival in the state. It was not
                            until the issue of August 7, 1824, that its editor realized that Jackson
                            had outdistanced 
                                Clay
                            . From that date on, most of the political comment in his
                            paper was anti-Jackson.
               
                    
                    Western Sun. Its editor, Elihu Stout, had supported Crawford
                    in 1822; in 1823 he wavered between 
                        Clay
                     and Jackson; but in 1824 he swung to Jackson and undertook to
                    organize support for him. In July, 1824, Stout called for a series of county
                    conventions which were to select delegates to a state convention which would
                    nominate Jackson.47 This convention met at 
                        Salem
                     on September 16, 1824.48 The 
                        Richmond
                     Public Leger reported that it was attended by delegates from only
                    thirteen of the state's fifty-three counties. The editor was certain
                    that such poor attendance would "satisfy every reflecting man as to the
                    fate of the Jackson ticket in the state."49
            
            Jackson's adherents, rather than being discouraged by the seeming lack
                    of interest shown in their candidate, made political capital of it. They tried
                    to create an image of the general as a reluctant candidate, a man above
                    politics, who did not seek office for selfish reasons. As early as 1822, one of
                    his Indiana admirers had written that he would "regret to see the
                    laurels which Jackson has acquired, tarnished" by a political contest,
                    because "such strife does not become him."50 This appearance was enhanced by the printing of a letter from the
                    general dated April 26, 1824, in which he stated that he had been made a
                    candidate "by the people themselves, without any agency of mine; for I
                    wish it not to be forgotten, that I never have solicited office; nor, when
                    called upon … have ever declined where I conceived my services could
                    be benefical [sic] to my country."51 The platform drawn up by the state convention at 
                        Salem
                     in 1824 echoed this sentiment, declaring that Jackson "is
                    unlearned in the ways of political intrigue, and he denies the right and he
                    rejects the authority of congressional caucuses… ."52
            
            The Jackson men endeavored to prove that their candidate was the logical choice
                    for the Republican party. The 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, July 31, 1824. Stout came to 
                                Vincennes
                             from 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , where he had been associated with
                            the 
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette. He founded the Indiana
                                Gazette, the state's first news paper, in 1804. In
                            1807 Stout renamed his paper the Western Sun. Buley,
                                Old Northwest, II, 491.
                  
                     48 This meeting has been described as
                            "one of the first, if not the first, convention of delegates of
                            representatives of the people for the nomination of candidates ever held
                            in the 
                                United States
                            ." Buley, Old Northwest, II, 25.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 9, 1824.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, December 7, 1822.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., June 26, 1824, quoting 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Star.
                  
                  
                     52
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 9, 1824.
               
                    
                    
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, attempting to show that the Tennessean had 
                        Monroe
                    's blessings, printed a letter dated December 14, 1816, in
                    which the then secretary of state told the general that he found it
                    "very gratifying" to receive his opinions "on all
                    subjects," because he had "the utmost confidence in the
                    soundness of your judgment and purity of your intentions." 
                        Monroe
                     agreed with Jackson "decidedly, in the principle that the
                    Chief Magistrate of the country ought not be the head of a party, but of the
                    nation itself."53
            
            Jackson's opponents were not remiss in dredging up what evidence there
                    was of his political principles to prove that he was "erroneously
                    designated ‘the people's
                    candidate.’ " It was reported that at the 
                        Tennessee
                     constitutional convention Jackson "was warmly OPPOSED to
                    the general right of suffrage," wanting to restrict the franchise to
                    property holders. Such action, it was argued, should deprive Jackson of the
                    "title of people's candidate." The
                    editorializing continued, "What! are the poorer class of people, who
                    fight the battles of their country, who pay their hard-earned pittance to
                    support the government, not to be entitled to the privilege of saying who shall
                    govern them? As well might we have an hereditary monarch."54 One "Impartial Observer" insisted,
                    "Andrew Jackson is a hero and a tyrant."55
            
            If there was little evidence from Jackson's political career to use
                    against him, his detractors could and did attack him as a soldier whose training
                    and outlook made him unfit to rule in accord with republican principles. If
                    elected, it was claimed, the general, being "a man of violent and
                    arbitrary principles," would subject the civil to the military power to
                    such an extent that only "Turkey, abject and degraded by
                    despotism," could tolerate his rule.56 One editor,
                    discussing the possibility of Jackson's victory, entitled his article
                    "REIGN OF TERROR" and predicted that the general's
                    election would bring with it "a system of denunciation and proscription
                    equal to that in the worst days of the French revolution." There was
                    the added danger that having a military man as president "would be the
                    readiest way to 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, June 5, 1824.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, August 7, 1824, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, September 2, 1823.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, August 7, 1824, quoting National Crisis.
                  
               
                     embroil us in difficulties with foreign
                        powers."57 In fact, it was suggested,
                    Jackson's main support came from officers and soldiers who, being
                    "too lazy to follow ordinary pursuits for support, and fired with
                    ambition and military glory," hoped that the general would lead the
                    nation into a war in which "their devotion would be rewarded with
                    commissions, titles and honors, stars and garters." The implications of
                    this were clear. "
                        Rome
                     had her Caesar, 
                        England
                     her Cromwell, and 
                        France
                     her Bonaparte, and the 
                        United States
                     should profit by their example."58
            
            Jackson's followers countered such charges by comparing him to George 
                        Washington
                    . Their candidate, they proclaimed, had the "military
                    prowess, undaunted bravery, a patriotism pure and unspotted as that which
                    distinguished the father of his country." Jackson's services
                    to the nation could "never be forgotten while the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     shall continue to roll their waters to the ocean."59 The state convention which endorsed the general in 1824
                    reminded voters that "
                        Washington
                     and his compatriots first acquired fame as soldiers."60 Countering the objection that he was too good a general
                    to govern the nation in time of peace, his supporters claimed that the same
                    qualities were needed to be a good general as to be an able and efficient
                    statesman; and they cited history to demonstrate that "those who have
                    made a conspicuous figure in war have conducted the affairs of peace with the
                    greatest ability and success."61
            
            Some of Jackson's opponents were aware that his military career was of
                    great political advantage to him. A 
                        Clay
                     supporter, trying to play down Jackson's military service,
                    wrote that no candidate "or any general, no matter what battles he may
                    have fought—no matter who he may have defeated—has truer
                    and more genuine courage than Mr. 
                        Clay
                    ." No one could claim that 
                        Clay
                     had "never drawn his sword in the field, for
                        want of courage, in defence of our independence." His country
                    had required his services in another capacity, "and he was of far more
                    service to the nation in the capital 
                  
                     57
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 16, November 7, 1824.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, October 26, 1824.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, December 7, 1822.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 9, 1824.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 30, 1822, quoting 
                                New Orleans
                             Gazette.
               
                     than many who rode with a pair of golden
                    epaulets on their shoulders, with thousands of men at their heels. But we have
                    no need of a fighting President."62
            
            Closely related to the issue of republican principles were the issues of slavery
                    and the general morality of the candidates, two topics which were usually
                    associated. The slavery question aroused interest, according to one newspaper,
                    because the recent debate over the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise had been given such coverage by the press that
                    "the subject was too forcibly illustrated to be obliterated from the
                    public mind in so short a period."63 Some people
                    associated slavery with the attempt being made in the early 1820's to
                    call a state constitutional convention. They claimed that supporters of a
                    convention hoped to introduce slavery into the state.64 This
                    growing concern over slavery made it a logical issue for the presidential
                    campaign.
            The strongest antislavery sentiment in Indiana was found in the eastern part of
                    the state, where Quakers supported Adams. Most newspapers that endorsed the New
                    Englander stressed that his "moral character is unimpeached"
                    and that he alone of all the candidates was not associated with dueling or
                        slavery.65 "He fights no duels, tells no lies,
                    and drinks very little, if any whiskey," one of his followers proudly
                        boasted.66 An editor, viewing the campaign as a contest
                        
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, April 13, 1824.
                  
                     63 Corydon Indiana Gazette,
                            April 9, 1823, quoting Indiana Farmer. Armstrong Brandon, editor of the
                                Gazette and an Adams supporter, kept the slavery
                            issue before his readers. On May 26, 1824, under the heading
                            "Presidential Election," he devoted his front page to
                            an excerpt from the Genius of Universal Emancipation,
                            the tenor of which was that the question of the abolition of slavery was
                            "intimately connected with the internal policy, the welfare,
                            and even the existence of our republic." He again quoted extensively from this source
                            on June 2, 1824.
                  
                     64 Corydon Indiana Gazette,
                            April 2, 9, 1823. Some candidates for state office during this period
                            considered the relationship between slavery and a convention to be an
                            important issue. J. W. Reding, seeking election to the state legislature
                            as representative for Johnson, 
                        Marion, Hamilton
                     , and 
                                Madison
                             counties, informed voters that on the subject of
                            "the calling of a convention and the admission of involuntary
                            slavery in this state," he considered slavery "a
                            violation of the declaration of our independence." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, July 8, 1823. J. Colip, withdrawing as a
                            candidate for the legislature, restated his beliefs: "As to
                            calling a convention, I feel opposed to the measure for several reasons;
                            particularly of admitting slavery in this state… ."
                                Ibid., July 22, 1823.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 1, 1824, quoting Cadiz, 
                                Ohio
                            , Harrison Telegraph.
                  
                  
                     66
                            
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer and Farmers' Friend,
                            May 29, 1824, quoting 
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., Mirror.
                  
               
                     between Adams and 
                        Clay
                    , declared that for voters to prefer 
                        Clay
                     over Adams, "they must first learn to disregard all
                    distinction between right and wrong—between freedom and
                    slavery—between a man polluted with the crimes of gaming and
                    duelling, and one whose moral character is ‘without spot and
                    blemish.’ "67 Another editor, countering
                    the charge that Adams was not a Christian, reprinted an article which maintained
                    that "no statesman of the present or any former period, has had a more
                    thorough persuasion of the truth of Christianity, or has more uniformly
                    performed the duties required of the disciples of that religion."
                    Letters from Adams to his son were quoted to cast favorable light on
                    Adams' "opinion of the Bible, and the religion it inculcates—and his
                    opinion of the operation and government of the passions." The article maintained that in the entire series of
                    letters there were "no sectarian or controversial views. The public,
                    from the extracts, can judge of the temper and Christian principles of Mr.
                        Adams."68
            
            The Adams men leveled charges of immorality against all his opponents. The editor
                    of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger, under the title of "THE BLACK
                    LIST," printed the names of every American who had fought a duel in the
                    nineteenth century. He noted that 
                        Clay
                     and Crawford were among those "engaged in this murderous
                    practice." These two presidential candidates, he remarked,
                    "are said, by their partizans, to be worthy of the office,"
                    but he was convinced that voters would prefer Adams. He observed that while
                    Jackson's name did not appear in the list, he was frequently reputed to
                    have engaged in duels; and readers were urged to supply the editor with any
                    information they might have about this so that Jackson's name might be
                    added to the black 1ist.The front page of the next issue of this paper was
                    devoted to an article on dueling intended to "awaken more attention to
                    the wide spread and overwhelming misery, occasioned by duelling and to its
                    enormous and ominous guilt." In a new list of duelists, the names of
                    Crawford, Jackson, and 
                        Clay
                     appeared in boldface type.69
            
            Jackson's morality was attacked, and voters were urged not to support
                    him because the "elevation of a man of an 
                  
                     67
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 15, 1824.
                  
                     68 Corydon Indiana Gazette, May
                            19, 1824, quoting Essex Register.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 22, 29, 1824.
               
                     immoral character, is calculated to lower
                    the American people in the eyes of foreigners; and to corrupt the morals of the
                    people at home." The people did not want a president "who can
                    look upon blood and carnage not only with composure but with complacency; and
                    who can imbrue his hands in the blood of a fellow-creature without
                        compunction."70 The general, it was argued, had
                    such little regard for religion, morality, and the good order of society that he
                    "took another man's wife, and it is said
                    still lives with her."71
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    's morality was also questioned. One writer offered a story
                    which, he claimed, typified the Kentuckian's morality and illustrated
                    that with regard to gambling, 
                        Clay
                     "can invent new modes yet unthought of, and adapted to the
                    lowest circumstances in life, such as can be put in practice almost at any time
                    and place." He recounted how 
                        Clay
                     and a "competitor walked out deliberately to a rye stack,
                    and drew thence ten straws, who could draw the largest, on a WAGER OF TEN
                    NEGROES, shewing to the world not only a simple and easy mode of gambling, which
                    could be attended to before breakfast if needful, but also that property of that
                    description was of but little regard in his view."72
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    , who was closely associated with the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, received the most severe criticism on the slavery
                    issue. He was described as "a plain, old fashioned
                    slaveholder" who "would use his influence to extend the
                    blessings of slavery to every part of his government." It was claimed
                    that because the speaker of the House was used to ruling over slaves,
                    "he is well experienced in the best mode of bringing our republick into
                    that of a despotic government, as nothing can possibly tend more to bring about
                    that end than slavery, which is as contrary to genuine republicanism, as
                    darkness is to light."73 One editor wrote,
                    "It will not be believed [that 
                        Clay
                     is not a friend of slavery] while the shrieks and groans of human
                    beings and the murderous lash make vocal the vallies [sic] and
                    plains of 
                        Missouri
                    ."74 The taint of slavery was also
                    applied to 
                        Clay
                    's supporters. A 
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., November 7, 1824.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, October 26, 1824.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, June 5, 1824.
                  
                            73
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., June 12, 1824.
               
                     description of the state electoral
                    candidates favoring him read: 
                        One of them strongly advocated slavery when the people
                            of Indiana territory were about going into a state government; another
                            has been strongly suspected of the crime of
                            kidnapping; a third was, a few years since, a slave driver in one of the
                            middle states; a fourth—but to particularize is useless.75
                  
                    
            
            Trying to answer these charges, one 
                        Clay
                     partisan observed that while his candidate was from a slave state,
                    so were 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson. He pointed out that at the 1798 
                        Kentucky
                     constitutional convention 
                        Clay
                     had opposed slavery and advocated gradual emancipation; he
                    supported and had been a member of the American Colonization Society since its
                    formation. He had worked for the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise because of his concern, not with slavery, but with the
                    constitutional question of whether 
                        Missouri
                     had the right to exercise the same powers as other states when
                    adopting a constitution. His actions were motivated by his concern for the
                    public good, and he managed to solve a problem "that had not only
                    convulsed the whole nation, but seriously threatened our political
                    dissolution." Voters were reminded that it "was said at the
                    time that Mr. 
                        Clay
                     had preserved what 
                        Washington
                     had achieved; and no other person could have done it."76
            
            Adams' opponents, finding it difficult to involve him in the slavery
                    controversy, used innuendo when facts were not available. Admittedly, Adams was
                    from a free state; but, it was claimed, it 
                        is perfectly well known, that in all of the free states there are many
                            individuals, and among them not a few eminent men, who are advocates of
                            slavery. I will not assert that Mr. Adams is one of this class. He may
                            not, or he may be of its number. His opinions on this subject may have
                            been kept as discreetly from public inspection as his opinions on most
                            other great national topics.77
                  
                     The editor of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger, observing that Adams was being accused of owning
                    slaves, assured his readers that the candidate's "hands have
                    never been stained with this inequity, nor has he ever sanctioned it by word or
                    deed." Rather, "with the resolution of a true Christian he has
                        
                  
                            75
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     76
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, June 19, 1824, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., June 26, 1824.
               
                     scorned to live by the labor of his fellow
                    creatures, when extorted from them by the application of the lash."78
            
            Other issues in 1824 related to problems viewed as primarily western. While many
                    spokesmen deplored the evils of sectionalism and denied that they supported a
                    candidate merely because he was from the West, they nevertheless expressed
                    concern that the new president be favorably disposed to their particular needs.
                    One writer observed that reasons given for electing a western president,
                    "SO far as they are founded upon geographical jealousies, can have no
                    weight in favour of any candidate." They could especially
                    "injure" 
                        Clay
                    , whose "elevated soul would abhor" the
                    "political quackery that would divide the people, or seek elevation by
                    the aid of invidious or factious discrimination."79
                    
                        Clay
                     men insisted that their candidate was less sectional than any of
                    the others. One explained, "An inhabitant of the West is …
                    of necessity more national than one of the East or South, because the East and
                    South have united to form the West." While the East was mainly
                    concerned with commercial interests, and the South with agriculture,
                    "the West has every interest."80
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    's supporters also emphasized the benefits of electing a
                    Westerner, citing his role in the Treaty of Ghent of 1815 as an illustration. It
                    had been proposed, wrote one of his adherents, to grant the British free use of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    , "thus giving them the most direct access to those
                    numerous and warlike tribes of Indians which border on our northern &
                    western frontier." 
                        Clay
                     was credited with "the defeat and abandonment of that
                    atrocious proposal." But for him, "the seeds of war might have
                    been sowing along our northern and western borders, which at no distant day,
                    would have produced an abundant harvest of tears and blood."81
            
            While Adams was also praised as an "able advocate" of the
                    nation's rights at Ghent,82 his performance was
                    more often cited to prove his lack of interest in western problems. One of his
                    opponents expressed fear that to secure benefits 
                  
                     78
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 9, 1824.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 30, 1822.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., June 5, 1824.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., December 7, 1822, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                             Gazette.
                  
                     82
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, December 14, 1822.
               
                     for the East, Adams would open new channels
                    for British influence among the northern and western Indians and with an
                    "unfeeling policy would crimson your fresh fields with the blood of
                    your border brethren, and light the midnight forest with the flames of their
                    dwellings." Control of the 
                        Mississippi
                     was "too important to be bartered for the privilege of
                    fishing in British waters. It is giving our wives and children for fish,
                    & bartering the blood of our citizens for money." This
                    "was the tendency of the proposition which was agitated at
                        Ghent."83 Another writer noted that Adams had
                    surrendered 
                        Texas
                    , and his willingness to open the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the British could only lead to "Indian murder and
                        rapine."84
            
            Of especial concern to Indiana voters was the question of internal improvements. 
                        Clay
                    , Crawford, and Adams were each credited by their supporters with
                    being the first to propose a substantial program of internal improvements.85 As the campaign progressed, 
                        Clay
                    's record on this issue remained unchallenged. Internal
                    improvements were an integral part of his policy of economic nationalism. While
                    there was no serious discussion in the Indiana press of his total program, at
                    least one paper printed his American System speech in Congress on March 30 and
                    31, 1824, in its entirety;86 and his record as "the
                    most zealous advocate for internal improvement" was frequently singled
                    out for praise.87
            
            Adams had the most difficulty with the internal-improvement issue, since many
                    Indiana voters associated him with eastern interests. "What interest
                    has he shown for your roads and canals?" asked one newspaper. 
                        Can it be expected that he, who would open to our rival & our
                            enemy the navigation of those canals dug by the hand of God for use of
                            the increasing millions of Western America, will promote our trade by
                            making artificial ones? Instead of opening new avenues for commerce, is
                            it not to be feared that in some future treaty to secure some paltry
                            privilege to an Eastern interest, he would render those which already
                            exist, a curse rather than a blessing?88
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., November 23, 1822, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
                  
                     84
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, December 21, 1822.
                  
                     85
                            Ibid., December 7, 21, 1822; Corydon Indiana Gazette, April 13, 1824.
                  
                     86 Centreville Western Emporium, May 29, July 3,
                            1824.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, April 13, 1824.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 23, 1822, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
               
                     Another of his opponents asked,
                    "Will you declare in favor of a system of home manufactures and
                    internal improvement, and pass by a western citizen [
                        Clay
                    ] eminently qualified to execute it, for a distant member of the
                    republic [Adams], who is supported by the people of the seaboard, because he is
                    opposed to that very system?"89 The editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gazette noted that while Adams was "held forth to the
                    people of the West as the decided friend of Internal improvements,"
                    there was no evidence to support the claim.90
            
            Adams' supporters, attempting to show that their candidate favored
                    internal improvements, cited his record in the Senate in 1807-1808. When
                    Secretary of the Treasury Albert Gallatin had made a report on roads and canals,
                    Adams had moved to have it printed and distributed to the people "in
                    order that the country might be stimulat'd to those works which would
                    add so much strength to our Union, and facility to our internal
                        commerce."91 In a letter which Adams wrote in
                    June, 1824, he stated that on February 22, 1807, he had introduced in the Senate
                    what he believed to be the first resolution brought before Congress which
                    contemplated "a general system of internal
                    improvement." He avowed that he still held the same opinions. Although
                    he respected "the purity of intention of those who object, on
                    constitutional grounds, to the exercise of this power," he was pleased
                    to observe such objections "gradually yielding to the paramount
                    influence of the general welfare."92
            
            The tariff issue was closely associated with the question of internal
                    improvements, especially by 
                        Clay
                    's followers, since it was believed that a high tariff
                    would finance the development of a national transportation system. But many
                    westerners had come to regard the development of manufacturing as beneficial in
                    itself. As early as 1820 Governor Jonathan Jennings had observed that income
                    from the state's agricultural produce was declining in proportion to
                    the cost of imported merchandise. The solution to this problem, as he saw it,
                    was to curtail the "consumption of foreign articles, 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, June 26, 1824.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, May 11, 1824.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, May 22, 1824, quoting Essex Register.
                  
                  
                     92
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, August 7, 1824.
               
                     by the application of active industry, not
                    less to domestic manufactures of every description, than to the
                        soil."93
            
            
               
                        Clay
                     was advocating this same policy on a national level. In 1821 the
                    editor of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Chronicle reprinted an article praising a speech on the tariff
                    which the Kentuckian had made in the House of Representatives on April 26, 1820.
                    In the speech 
                        Clay
                     cited farmer Isaac 
                        Shelby
                     as "an example of order, of freedom of debt, from economy
                    of expenditure falling short of income, instead of exceeding it…
                    ." Home manufacturing was 
                        Shelby
                    's economic salvation, since he did not have to buy what he
                    needed. "What the individual family of Isaac 
                        Shelby
                     is," 
                        Clay
                     proclaimed, "I wish to see the nation in the
                    aggregate… ." The article editorialized that when
                    "such men as Henry 
                        Clay
                    , and Isaac 
                        Shelby
                    , one by his example, and the other by his eloquence giving a
                    direction to the public welfare, we feel encouraged—we see that we
                    shall, and must eventually get out of our difficulties and banish hard times
                    from a country that ought to be rich, free and independent." Americans
                    possessed every blessing "to make them independent of foreign nations,
                    to make them rich by the cultivation of the soil, to make them wealthy by
                    manufactures, and to promote the wealth of all by commerce." To benefit
                    from such blessings, "farmers must depend on their own industry and
                    economy, and follow the maxims of the old Hollanders, and old 
                        Shelby
                     and the advice of 
                        
                            Clay
                        
                    , and they will hear no more of hard times."94
            
            The editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, who supported 
                        Clay
                    , gave considerable attention to the tariff issue. He followed
                    closely the progress of the protective-tariff bill before Congress in 1823 and
                    reported that it had been defeated by only a small majority. He predicted that
                    when Congress again considered the matter, the bill would be passed by a large
                    majority due to additional western votes, since in the meantime Indiana would be
                    entitled to two additional representatives, 
                        Kentucky
                     to two, 
                        Ohio
                     to eight, and 
                        New York
                     to eight. Such a tariff, the editor explained, would bring
                    prosperity to the middle and western sections of the Union; and the entire
                    nation would become less dependent upon foreign trade.95 In
                    September, 1823, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor reprinted 
                  
                     93 Homer C. Hockett, Western
                                Influence of Political Parties to 1825 (
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 State University Contributions in History and Political
                                Science, No. 4; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1917), 111n.
                  
                     94 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Chronicle, May 6, 1821, quoting 
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Herald.
                  
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 29, 1823.
               
                     an article from Niles' Weekly Register, which, he said, "speaks
                    volumes on the propriety, the policy, and necessity of affording by law,
                    protection and encouragement to domestic manufactures."96 Advocates of the tariff insisted that the encouragement of
                    manufacturing would not endanger agriculture or commerce, since the interests of
                    all three were identical. Domestic manufacturing, rather than being detrimental
                    to the nation, was the chief pillar of its independence. 
                        Clay
                     was praised for his unceasing attachment to manufacturing in which
                    the West was considerably interested.97
            
            The tariff issue presented difficulties for most of the candidates. It was
                    reported that Jackson was in a dilemma over the tariff because "if
                    against it, his strength to the North is gone; if for it, the South will give
                    him up." The South, unable to support Adams or 
                        Clay
                     because both favored a protective tariff, could only turn to
                    Crawford, "the only man on the list, who is indisposed to sustain the
                    industry and labor of our country." Jackson, Adams, and 
                        Clay
                     were "known to be friendly and favorable to a discreet and
                    prudent protection of home industry… ." Jackson's
                    supporters were certain that he would not "shrink from the
                    responsibility, or seek for a moment to conceal his opinions; let what
                    consequences come that may, he will not unfurl on this side of the Potomac one
                    flag, another on the South side." But in spite of the difficulties
                    presented by the tariff, the prediction was made that none of the candidates
                    would be much affected regardless of their position on the issue. "The
                    public know that this is a matter of policy, which appertains to Congress, not
                    the President—and is one about which men may honestly and fairly
                    differ… ."108
            
            As Indiana voters went to the polls on the first Monday in November, 1824, to
                    express their choices for "the first office in the gift of a free
                    people," few editors were willing to predict the outcome of the
                    election. Editor Stout of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun reported that although no official returns were
                    available to him, it appeared that 
                        Clay
                     had a "small majority" over Jackson and that
                    Adams had received "but few votes." A week later he observed
                    that the outcome was "yet somewhat doubtful" and predicted
                    that the race 
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., September 2, 1823.
                  
                     97
                            Ibid., December 16, 1823, January 20, June 8, 1824.
                  
                     98 Corydon Indiana Gazette, May
                            26, 1824, quoting National Intel ligencer.
                  
               
                     would be so close that the victor would
                    "show a majority of not more than from 30 to 50 votes."99
            
            Toward the end of the, month, election returns began to appear in the press,
                    usually without editorial comment.100 Editors seemed to be
                    taking a wait-and-see attitude. Even when Jackson's victory in the
                    state became apparent, most editors did not believe it significant for
                    determining the outcome of the national election. As Editor Buxton of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger noted, "It is rendered pretty certain
                    … that there will be no election by the people."101 Nor was there much excitement in the press when it was
                    announced that Jackson had definitely won the state's five electoral
                        votes.102 Editors were still not willing to claim
                    national victory or admit defeat for their candidates.
            As predicted, the election was decided by the national House of Representatives,
                    where Indiana cast its vote for Jackson, but Adams was elected. Indiana editors
                    apparently felt that once the election went to the House, it was beyond their
                    influence. They ceased either to praise or condemn candidates and merely
                    reported what news they could glean from eastern papers. The editor of the 
                        Vevay
                     Indiana Register, who had supported 
                        Clay
                    , simply announced that the "Presidential question is
                    settled—John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams was elected on the first ballot… ."103 The editor of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, a Jackson man, was somewhat more expressive,
                    lamenting that "contrary to my expectation, the voice of a majority of
                    50,000 freemen, has been disregarded.—The friends of Jackson can
                    console themselves for the disappointment, under the firm conviction, that the
                    voice of the American people was in his favor."104
            
            Editors who supported Adams, of course, expressed their approval of his victory.
                    Editor Buxton of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger told his readers that he had taken "that
                    course which he firmly believed would best promote the welfare of our common
                    country, and a large proportion of the American people, and the congress of the
                    nation have attested the correctness 
                  
                     99
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 13, 20, 1824.
                  
                     100 See for example, 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, November 19, 1824; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, November 20, 1824.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, November 27, 1824.
                  
                     102 See, for example, 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, November 27, 1824; 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, December 10, 1824.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, February 25, 1825.
                  
                     104
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, February 26, 1825.
               
                     of his position."105 Most papers printed Adams' inaugural address without
                        comment,106 but the editor of the Centreville Western Emporium observed that the address compared favorably
                    with those of Adams' predecessors and that is was "calculated
                    to call forth the applause of every American, and even excite the wonder of
                    Europe." The measures it proposed, if followed, would "destroy
                    the collisions produced by party spirit, and ensure harmony at home and peace
                        abroad."107
            
            Distrust and dislike of "party spirit" characterized most of
                    the comments made in the press about the election. Editors emphasized that this
                    was a time for national unity, and that there was "no spectacle more
                    grand—no scene more imposing—no circumstance more
                    gratifying to an American citizen, and lover of our republican
                    institutions" than when the representatives in Congress
                    "selected and proclaimed the first officer of the Union-there was no
                    excitement, no impression of disappointment, but all appeared cheerfully to
                    acquiesce, when the Speaker declared JOHN QUINCY ADAMS to be duly elected
                    President… ."108 One writer observed
                    that the "presidential question has been long enough at rest for party
                    spirit to subside and be at rest also, and the crisis makes a magnanimous appeal
                    to the patriotism of all parties." Pleading that all personal
                    disappointment and resentment should be sacrificed "to the good of the
                    public," this writer called upon all Americans to follow the
                    "noble example" of the "dignified deportment of
                    Congress" and "leave party so far in the rear, that she may
                    never more be able to rear her hideous head in the councils of
                        republicanism."109
            
            But party strife was not forgotten. It was announced in March, 1825, that Jackson
                    woud be a candidate for the presidency in 1828. One editor advised friends of
                    the general to "exercise forbearance, and test Mr. ADAMs'
                    first administration, before they enter the General for the second heat, lest
                    they might have sufficient cause to repent it." He was certain that
                    "the official services of Mr. ADAMS, as President, will be so
                    completely identified with republicanism and strict honesty, that there will be
                    little or no cause of complaint, 
                  
                     105
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, March 5, 1825.
                  
                     106 See, for example, Ibid.,
                            March 26, 1825; 
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer, March 26, 1825; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, March 26, 1825.
                  
                     107 Centreville Western
                            Emporium, March 26, 1825.
                  
                     108
                            Ibid., February 26, 1825, quoting National Register.
                  
                     109
                            
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer, May 7, 1825.
               
                     either by the supporters of Mr. JACKSON or
                    any of the other candidates."110
            
            But Jackson's supporters were already complaining. An "Old
                    Clodhopper" insisted that for anyone to congratulate the people upon
                    the election of Adams, 
                        a people who are already smarting under the lash of disappointment, and
                            who believe themselves gulled and cheated out of their choice, by a
                            flagrant violation of the fundamental principles of our government, is
                            an affront to the enlightened mind of the people, too great to brook,
                            without resentment.
                     Adams, this writer insisted, "had been imposed on the people,
                    contrary to the wishes of the majority," and his "first
                    official act (or one of the first) was to appoint the Judas of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Secretary of State." 
                        Clay
                    , this man believed, had made "a previous contract, corrupt
                    in its very nature," with Adams for the appointment. 
                        Clay
                     would not support Jackson because he "dared not approach
                    him with unholy propositions."111
            
            Editor Stout of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun made every effort to keep Jackson before the
                    voters. He reprinted an article which lamented "that the wishes of
                    eighty-seven members of Congress should defeat the will of millions."
                    Adams was a "minority candidate," and "the voice of a
                    majority of the nation has been disregarded—defied. The people,
                    particularly in the west, have not only been misrepresented, but the spirit of
                    the constitution has been violated." Adams' victory was only
                    "a temporary triumph achieved at the expense of both principle and
                    consistency," and whether it would "prove advantageous to the
                    victors, is a question which must and will be decided by the American people at
                    the next election." Jackson's followers claimed that they had
                    "succeeded at the late election, in prostrating the caucus
                    system." Their next objective was to "break the chain of
                    cabinet succession, and to put a period to the rule of a minority."112 Thus the groundwork was being laid for the campaign of
                    1828.
            Indiana editors had championed their candidates and presented what they
                    considered to be the important issues, but the question remains whether they had
                    any significant influence on the election of 1824. The Corydon Indiana Gazette on May 19, 1824, cited fourteen newspapers being
                    published in the state, probably an incomplete list. Of these, 
                  
                     110
                            Ibid., March 12, 1825.
                  
                     111
                            Ibid., May '7, 1825.
                  
                     112
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, April 2, 1825.
               
                    
                    
                  Initials under the name of each county represent the relative number of
                            votes candidates received in that county. For example, JCA indicates
                            that Jackson received the geratest number of votes; 
                                Clay
                             ran second; and Adams, third. Initials in proximity to
                            cities indicate newspaper support for candidates. Arrows indicate areas
                            attached to counties for administrative purposes. 
                                Delaware
                             and 
                                Wabash
                             were designated as so-called counties, but they possessed
                            no separate political or administrative machinery. George Pence and
                            Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State,
                                and County (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 41-44, 162-63; Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns, 4-9.
               
                     seven were identified as supporting Adams;
                    four supported 
                        Clay
                    ; one, 
                        Clay
                     and Adams; and two were described as doubtful. While Adams had over
                    half the state's newspapers supporting him, he received only about 20
                    per cent of the state's popular vote. Jackson, supported only by the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, received nearly 50 per cent of the popular vote
                    and won the state's five electoral votes.113 There
                    seems to be no relationship between the number of papers supporting a candidate
                    in 1824 and the outcome of the election.
            A sampling of the regional influence of various papers also indicates that they
                    were not locally decisive in the election. While the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun championed Jackson, 
                        Clay
                     carried 
                        Knox County
                    . The 
                        Richmond
                     Public Leger (
                        Wayne County
                    ), the Centreville Western Emporium (
                        Wayne County
                    ), the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Oracle (
                        Dearborn County
                    ), the 
                        Salem
                     Farmer (
                        Washington County
                    ), the 
                        Charlestown
                    
                    Intelligencer (
                        Clark County
                    ), the Corydon Gazette (
                        Harrison County
                    ), and the 
                        Evansville
                     Gazette (Vanderburg County) all supported Adams; but Jackson
                    carried all of these counties except 
                        Wayne
                    , where he lost to Adams by some forty votes, and Vanderburg, where 
                        Clay
                     won. 
                        Clay
                     was supported by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gazette (
                        Marion County
                    ), the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Censor, the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Republican (
                        Jefferson County
                    ), the 
                        Vevay
                     Register (
                        Switzerland County
                    ), and the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer (
                        Franklin County
                    ). Although he carried 
                        Marion
                     and Jefferson counties, he lost to Jackson in 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     counties.114
            
            One commentator has observed that "in quantity, as well as in their
                    influence on the life of the backwoods communities," newspapers
                    "were the most important literary product throughout the pioneer
                    period. Only leaders who were adept in the art of impassioned oratory could
                    rival the editor of a weekly gazette in power to shape the popular will. The
                    editor and printer, by his knowledge of language and the mysteries of his craft,
                    rose to the dignity of an oracle."115 But in the early 1820's,
                    while Indiana editors did reflect the political spectrum, they had not
                    sufficiently perfected their voices to affect the outcome of a national election
                    in the state.
            
               
                  113 Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana
                            Election Returns, 4-9. The popular vote in the state, taking the
                        largest number of votes cast for an elector representing a candidate, was
                        7,444 for Jackson; 6,317 for 
                            Clay
                        ; and 3,093 for Adams.
               
                  114 Corydon Indiana Gazette, May 19,
                        1824. See the map, page 206, for a breakdown of the vote by counties.
               
                  115 Rusk, Literature of the Middle
                            Western Frontier, I, 132.
            
         
         
         
            Claude Bowers' Schoolboy Correspondence to William Everett*
            
            Contributed by Geoffrey T. Blodgett** Edited by Lorna Lutes Sylvester
            In June, 1965, the Indiana Magazine of History published
                    "The Dawning World of Claude Bowers," edited by Geoffrey T.
                    Blodgett. The article included two letters from Bowers, then a student at 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School (now Shortridge), to William Everett of
                            
                  Quincy, Massachusetts
               , graduate of 
                        Harvard
                    , orator, politician, Unitarian minister, schoolmaster at Adams
                    Academy, and son of Edward Everett. In his brief introduction Blodgett discussed
                    seven additional letters from Bowers to Everett, written between September,
                    1896, and July, 1897. This unusual correspondence is interesting because in
                    Bowers' case it describes "the youth who is father of the
                        man"1 and because it pictures education,
                    culture, and politics in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the "Gay Nineties." The letters also
                    disclose remarkable ability, learning, and perception for a high school boy of
                    seventeen. Thus the editors of the Indiana Magazine of History
                    have decided to reproduce the seven previously unpublished letters. Further
                    information about the correspondence and about Bowers himself may be found in
                    the June, 1965, issue of the Magazine; in 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         in the "Gay Nineties": High School Diaries of
                        Claude G. Bowers, edited by Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     and Gayle Thornbrough; and in Bowers' My
                        Life: The Memoirs of Claude Bowers.
               2 All nine of
                    Bowers' letters to Everett are located in the Everett Papers in the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society, 
                        Boston
                    .
            
               
                  * The letters reproduced in this article
                        are in the 
                            Massachusetts
                         Historical Society, 
                            Boston
                        . Grateful acknowledgement is made to Geoffrey T. Blodgett,
                        contributor of the letters; to Patricia Bowers, daughter of Claude G.
                        Bowers; and to Stephen T. Riley, director of the 
                            Massachusetts
                         Historical Society, for permission to use these letters.
               
                  ** Geoffrey T. Blodgett is
                        associate professor of history at Oberlin College, Oberlin, 
                            Ohio
                        . He is the author of The Gentle Reformers: 
                                Massachusetts
                             Democrats in the 
                                Cleveland
                             Era (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1966).
               
                  1 Geoffrey T. Blodgett (ed.), "The Dawning
                        World of Claude Bowers," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LXI (June, 1965) 157.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 157-70; Holman 
                            Hamilton
                         and Gayle Thornbrough (eds.), 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             in the "Gay Nineties": High School
                            Diaries of Claude G. Bowers (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1964);’ Claude Bowers, My Life: The Memoirs of
                        Claude Bowers (
                            New York
                        , 1962).
            
            
            
               THE YOUNG CLAUDE
                            BOWERS Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St. 
                                 
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        Sept. 30-1896. 1
                              
                                        Dr. Edward Everett,
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                            Boston
                                     Mass.
                              
                                    
                                    Dear Sir:-
                                
                        It has not been so very long since there appeared in one of our
                                    leading magazines a series of articles by the learned Dr Rice,
                                    upon the American public school system, in one of which, he says
                                    that the schools of Boston, Philadelphia and Indianapolis stand
                                    at the head.2
                        
                        We, of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     have not been at all tardy in awarding the
                                    author's excellent judgement an unanimous vote of
                                    confidence.
                        We are especially proud of our High School department. We do not
                                    think it surpassed by any other in the land. It is
                                    equal—more than equal—to the average
                                    college of the south or west. Our faculty numbers twenty, and
                                    there are twelve hundred students enrolled. We teach five
                                    languages, most all of the sciences, and mathematics as high as
                                    surveying. Our English course is generally considered extensive
                                    and most through.
                        Our diploma is honored at Amherst, Vassar Cornell, Leland 
                                        Stanford
                                    , Anne Arbor, Smith and 
                                        Brown
                                    .3
                        
                        
                           
                              1 In this transcription
                                        Bowers' letters were reproduced from Xerox copies
                                        of the written originals. Every effort has been made to
                                        retain the author's capitalization and punctuation.
                                        Bowers admitted to a "well-deserved reputation of
                                        being a dreadfully poor speller"; thus, his many
                                        mistakes have neither been corrected nor indicated by a [sic]. Minor changes have been made in the
                                        spacing of headings, salutations, and closings; but the
                                        punctuation originally used in these portions of the letters
                                        has been retained. Underscored words have been italicized
                                        and superior letters brought down to the line. Where words
                                        have been marked over, that version has been selected which
                                        was apparently Bowers' later choice. Obviously
                                        unintentional repetitions have been omitted. In doubtful or
                                        marginal situations modern practice has determined paragraph
                                        breaks and the use of question or exclamation marks.
                                        Identification of places and persons was facilitated by
                                        reference to Geoffrey T. Blodgett (ed.), "The
                                        Dawning World of Claude Bowers," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (June, 1965),
                                        157-70; and Holman 
                                            Hamilton
                                         and Gayle Thornbrough (eds.), 
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in the "Gay
                                        Nineties": High School Diaries of Claude G.
                                        Bowers (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1964).
                           
                              2 Bowers probably refers to a series
                                        of articles by Joseph M. Rice in The Forum during the early
                                        1890's. The article which discusses the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         schools specifically is J. M. Rice,
                                        "The Public Schools of 
                                            St. Louis
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ," The Forum, XIV
                                        (December, 1892), 429-44.
                           
                              3 For additional information
                                        concerning the teachers and curriculum of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         (Shortridge) High School see 
                                            Hamilton
                                         and Thornbrough, 
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in the "Gay
                                        Nineties," 5-6, and passim; Claude Bowers, My Life: The Memoirs of Claude Bowers (
                                            New York
                                        , 1962), 34-36, and passim.
                        
                        
                        
                           INDIANAPOLIS HIGH SCHOOL WHICH BOWERS ATTENDED (LATER SHORTRIDGE HIGH SCHOOL) Courtesy
                                        Shortridge High School
                        
                        
                        Now the Feb '98 class, for the purpose of raiseing funds
                                    for the purpose of purchaseing for our school some work of art,
                                    has determined upon the publication of a magazine of excellent
                                    literature, from the pens of truelly great men—and from them alone. It will be no school-boy
                                    scrap book. In fact, we are absolutely certain of at least five
                                    thousand readers, not at all connected with any school life. It
                                    will be published monthly. In size it will resemble
                                    "Harpers" with the advertisements omitted.
                        During the last month alone, we have received assurances of
                                    articles from two U.S. Senators, a great leader in the English
                                    parliament, four celebrated orators, two distinguished jurists,
                                    three eminent writers, one great educator, one foreign minister,
                                    and two noted Divines. M. [Rouiers?] will also write for us.4
                        
                        In fact, and we hurl this in a spirit of defiance, in fact, we
                                    intend to have a grander list of contributors than any 
                                        Harvard
                                     paper ever had!
                        Now you Sir, have had some experience in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .5 What-ever you may think of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , I assure you that Ind'pls has almost
                                    unbounded admiration for you. They have come in contact with
                                    your oratory and scholarship-and that is sufficient. They all
                                    unite in the sentiment that you are worthy of the glorious name
                                    you bear. This is all sincere—it is plain western
                                    frankness.
                        Now we want an article from you, upon any subject, of any length
                                    not less than what would occupy four pages of
                                    "Harpers".
                        We suggest two subjects—the ever beloved Edward
                                    Everett, or the much lamented Russell.6 We
                                    should be highly 
                              
                                 4 Bowers discusses the proposed
                                            magazine, which never appeared due to lack of money, in
                                            his diaries and his memoirs. 
                                                Hamilton
                                             and Thornbrough, 
                                    
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                 in the "Gay
                                            Nineties," 87, 89, and passim; Bowers, My Life, 27-33.
                                            Although he mentions many possible contributors, no
                                            reference to the gentleman named here was found.
                              
                                 5 Everett had come to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in the summer of 1896 to participate in the
                                            "Goldbug" National Democratic
                                            Convention. Bowers visited him during his stay in the
                                            Hoosier capital. Bowers, My Life, 37.
                              
                                 6 Edward Everett, William
                                            Everett's father, was governor of
                                                  
                                    Massachusetts, United States
                                  senator,
                                            minister to Great Britain, and president of 
                                                Harvard
                                             University. The "much lamented
                                            Russell" doubt less was William E. Russell,
                                            governor of 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             from 1890-1893. Russell attended the
                                            Democratic National Convention held in 
                                                Chicago
                                             in 1896 as the prospective presidential
                                            candidate of the eastern conservative wing of the party.
                                            He died July 16, 1896.
                           
                                     pleased to have you write
                                    upon one of those two, but we should be very grateful for any
                                    article.
                        This magazine will not be confined to Ind.
                                    We give you untill next September
                            Can you
                                    do us this favor?
                        
                                    Sincerely Yours
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St.
                                 
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        Oct-30-1896.
                                    
                                    Dr Wm Everett, Dear Friend:-
                                
                        Your letter of Oct-25, has been received with gratitude. I can
                                    readily beleive that I may have allowed my boyish enthusiasm to
                                    overthrow even a boys crude judgment.
                        However your mention of the mistake in name seems to savor
                                    slightly of a belief that I acted a hypocrite in my expression
                                    of admiration for your oratory. In common justice to myself, I
                                    must insist that there was absolutely nothing of hypocracy in
                                    the spirit which prompted my note. I did
                                    admire your speeches and I admired them before
                                    I ever heard your name—, would have admired them had
                                    I never heard your name.
                        I am but a boy as you say—and I suspect, a very
                                    ordinary one. In fact, considering my poor store of knowledge, I
                                    should feel very much discouraged indeed, were I any thing other
                                    than a boy.
                        I am always exceedingly grateful for any criticism from any
                                    person older than myself, and when it comes from one of your
                                    great expierence with boys, it is doubly valuable to me. I
                                    assure you that no language by way of criticism could under any
                                    circumstance make me mad.
                        I have often wondered why it was that friends capable of passing
                                    judgment are so very slow in doing so when they must know that
                                    by so doing they are bestowing upon their needy friend the
                                    greatest favor.
                        Perhaps my letter tinged of egotism, and maybe I seemed a little
                                    forward. Well, I am not situated as are many boys. I am an
                                    orphant without family or financial influence, and I feel that
                                    what-ever success I may here-after attain to, must  be due directly to my own efforts.
                                    Thus I have been thrown out into the world—been made
                                    to touch elbows with the commons, and I may have unconsciously
                                    taken on some of their airs of boldness and rudeness. Hence
                                    there is nothing on earth that I need so much as some sternly
                                    just, yet friendly man of learning to "assume the
                                    pedagogue over me" and point out the points where-in I
                                    fail and their remedy.
                        I court your criticism in the spirit of one who would progress.
                                    If I could only make you understand the spirit in which I write
                                    this, I am quite sure that you would think differently of me.
                        I am only seven-teen years old and have several years of constant
                                    study yet before me, and I want to make the very best use of my
                                    time during those years.
                        My hopes are that I may one day study for the Bar. In the
                                    mean-while I wish to fit my-self by the study of language for
                                    that oratory which is so potent at the Bar and on the hustings.
                                    I love poetry, history, oratory and biography. Am I taking the
                                    right course?
                        Now please excuse me if I have written too much about myself. But
                                    the tone of your letter was at once so friendly and so just that
                                    I, in turn, have attempted to be frank and open.
                        Once more I court your criticism—it is my greatest
                                    need. The critic is my best friend. I would also like any advise
                                    as to study.
                        
                                    Very Sincerely Yours
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St. 
                                 
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        NOV. 21-'96.
                                    
                                     Hon. Wm Everett Dear Friend:-
                                
                        Your kind and instructive letter of Nov. 14, has been read with
                                    real pleasure, not unmingled with a little humiliation. I made
                                    several serious mistakes which I, my-self might have noticed,
                                    had I not written in such haste. I have the well-deserved
                                    reputation of being a dreadfully poor speller, but this fault
                                    never before came home to me so forcibly and effectually as in
                                    your letter. The grammatical mistakes were entirely the result
                                    of heedlessness. The incorrectness  and inelegance of my diction was
                                    probably due to a limited vocabulary, and an indiscriminating
                                    selection which I know was absolutely inexcusable. But the
                                    letter has surely wrought a revolution in me—one
                                    which I am quite certain will eventually help me vastly.
                        I think I shall adopt the Choatean method of increasing and
                                    perfecting my vocabulary by a constant study of the dictionary
                                    and of synonyms.7
                        
                        However you make two mistakes, which for the sake of the school,
                                    I wish to correct. Instead of being a member of the highest
                                    class in the school, there are two classes higher yet than mine.
                                    I graduate in Feb. '98. And in place of being the
                                    leading member of my class, I consider myself by far the most
                                    humble. So please do not hold me as a good type of the products
                                    of the schools of this city.
                        I acknowledge that some eminent orators lead me into making
                                    several errors. The word "hustings", I first
                                    became acquainted with in a speech of S. S. Prentiss,8 and my "stilted style"
                                    came largely as a result of my great admiration for that
                                    celebrated Irish advocate, John P. Curran.9
                        
                        Only the other day I was reading in a volume of the Edinburgh
                                    Review for about 1848, a critical analysis of the eloquent
                                    lawyer's oratory, in which the critic concludes with
                                    the opinion that the inflated style of Curran had ruined that,
                                    of many young people.10 In his
                                    "Select British Orations", 
                              
                                 7 Bowers probably refers to the
                                            literary and oratorical style of Rufus Choate, lawyer,
                                            senator from 
                                                Massachusetts
                                            , and acknowledged leader of the 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             bar. Choate himself admitted that he read
                                            the dictionary and studied works in Greek and Latin not
                                            for the sake of those languages but for the sake of
                                            English. Said a contemporary, "Mr. Choate
                                            valued highly those synonyms which are useful in
                                            denoting distinctions … and in enabling a
                                            speaker to avoid a wearisome sameness of expression. His
                                            use of adjectives is a noticeable feature of his
                                            style." Joseph Neilson, Memories
                                                of Rufus Choate … (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1884), 362-74, 98.
                              
                                 8 Seargent S. Prentiss was a noted
                                            orator whom Bowers admired. A Whig in politics and a
                                            practicing lawyer in Vicksburg and 
                                                New Orleans
                                            , Prentiss was a native of 
                                                Maine
                                             who moved to the South as a young man.
                              
                                 9 The Protestant Irishman, John
                                            Philpot Curran, was a distinguished lawyer and judge,
                                            principally known for his defense of leaders in the
                                            Irish Revolution of 1798. Bowers discusses Curran in his
                                                The Irish Orators: A History of 
                                                  Ireland
                                                's Fight for Freedom (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1916), 127-67.
                              
                                 10 A search of the Edinburgh Review for the years 1847, 1848, and
                                            1849 did not reveal the article to which Bowers
                                        refers.
                           
                                     Dr Goldrich of Yale11 warns the youthful against this fault of
                                    exeggeration in his biographical notice of Curran, but I have
                                    foolishly given my own unripe judgement, full sway,—
                                    and you have pointed out the result.
                        I suppose that most boys of my age have fallen into the error of
                                    admiring the gaudy in literature. Try as I may, I cannot bring
                                    myself to admire the orations of Burke and the younger Pitt.
                                    Chatham, Fox, and Erskine are my favorites among the English.12 And yet in Dr Browns charming biography
                                    of Choate, I have read that eminent man's opinion of
                                    the English orators, in which he places Burke far above all the
                                    others combined.13 Well I have
                                    read–studied t[hrough] many of Burke's
                                    speeches, and I can find nothing especially admirable but the
                                    severity of his logic, the purity of his diction, and his
                                    fullness and fairness of treatment. Now Choate was a great
                                    orator and master of English; I am an ordinary boy who can not
                                    even spell correctly. Choate was educated up to the high-water
                                    mark of appreciation; I am not. Then what is there in an oration
                                    that I fail to find, or finding, fail to appreciate?
                        I want to first educate myself up to point of appreciation before
                                    I begin on Cicero and the Greeks.
                        In your letter you advised me to make everything I say or write,
                                    distinctly my own. This has been my intention. I very seldom
                                    memorize any-selections from the orations I read. I try to pick
                                    them to pieces so as to get the orators line of reasoning and
                                    method of proceeding. In this way I can readily determine which
                                    is logic, which rhetoric, and their relations. I may be
                                    "on the wrong track". I have never been
                                    advised upon that subject.
                        I wish I could express to you my thanks for the good you have
                                    done me. You have stirred me up and brought me face to face with
                                    myself. You know it is but natural for a boy to be easily
                                    contented with however little he may know. His boy friends have
                                    a sort of boyish respect for him, and you know a true boys
                                    respect is always apparent. And so 
                              
                                 11 Bowers errs in both title and
                                            author. The correct citation is Chauncey A. Goodrich,
                                                Select British Eloquence, Embracing the
                                                Best Speeches Entire of the Most Eminent Orators of
                                                Great Britain for the Last Two Centuries
                                            … (
                                                New York
                                            , 1852).
                              
                                 12 Edmund Burke; William Pitt, the
                                            younger; William Pitt, first Earl of Chatham; Charles
                                            James Fox; and Thomas Erskine.
                              
                                 13 Choate expresses this opinion
                                            in a letter to Richard S. Storrs, Jr., January 2, 1841,
                                            quoted in Samuel Gilman 
                                                Brown
                                            , The Life of Rufus Choate
                                             (3rd. ed., 
                                                Boston
                                            , 1879), 93.
                           
                                     things go on in this way
                                    until at last, the unfortunate boy finds himself perfectly
                                    satisfied with himself. Why he does not expierence near so much
                                    pain, because of the narrowness of his knowledge, as did
                                    Socrates in his wisest days. You may make the application.
                        Compare the Ind'pls High School with 
                                        Harvard
                                    ? Oh my no! It is my desire to study for awhile in 
                                        Harvard
                                    . I think there must be something pure and
                                    up-lifting in the atmosphere in and about old 
                                        Cambridge
                                    . I shall be perfectly delighted to receive those
                                    "little things" of which you wrote. Thanking
                                    you once more,
                        
                                    I am Sincerely your friend
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St.
                                 
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        Xmas '96.
                                    
                                     Dr. Wm Everett. My dear Friend:
                                        —
                                
                        For your valuable letter of Dec. 3, I am deeply indebted to you.
                                    It was for just such kind of advise for which I had long been
                                    looking and it was certainly delightful to find it addressed
                                    directly to me. You express the fear that in my study of
                                    language, I am confining myself too exclusively to oratory and
                                    not enough to poetry and history. I suspect that you are about
                                    right. But on my part it has been an unconscious mistake, and
                                    not one reached by any false process of reasoning. I am very
                                    fond of poetry of the imaginative kind. Although no beleiver in
                                    the doctrines for which Shelly stands, I greatly admire his
                                    poetry for its magnificient imagery. I realily love to read
                                    Keats, Browning, Tennyson, and Gray, and have made it a
                                    permanent rule to read and memorize some each day from
                                        Shakespeare.14 When I first began to
                                    read Shakespeare's works, I actually thought him the
                                    dullest mortal that ever touched pen to paper, and though I
                                    can't appreciate him now as I should like, I find some
                                    consolation in knowing that I have reached that stage where I
                                    can at least get some pleasure out of the reading.
                        But I have never yet been able to find any person who could give
                                    me a very definite idea as to how to study
                                    these 
                              
                                 14 Percy Bysshe Shelley, John
                                            Keats, Robert Browning, Alfred Tennyson, Thomas Gray,
                                            and William Shakespeare.
                           
                                     masters of song. I have
                                    read comparatively nothing of Dante and 
                                        Milton
                                    ,15 but I think I shall begin
                                    upon them before long. I was once advised to put more time upon
                                    Miltons prose than upon his poetry. Do you agree? I beleive it
                                    was Erskine who claimed that all his wonderful mastery over the
                                    English language, came from two years constant study of
                                    Shakespeare's dramas and 
                                        Milton
                                    's poetry, and I am a great admirer of
                                    Erskine. As to Dante, I can quote you the first two lines of his
                                    "Divine Comedy" and his inscription over the
                                    gates of Hell, and there I stop.
                        I am very much obliged to you for sending me the twenty-four
                                    Latins and Greeks. I propose to study the two unequaled
                                    languages of the ancient world until I become familiar with
                                    them. As for History,-it has always been a favorite study of
                                    mine
                        I have just been reading in 
                                        Hamilton
                                     Wright Mabies "Under the
                                        Trees"16.Is'nt his
                                    language superb? He has such an easy, flowing, and elegant way
                                    of expressing beautiful thoughts, and his word pictures fairly
                                    dance with life. Every one of his short chapters abounds in such
                                    wealth of imagery, that they seem to me grand poems.
                        But how shall I ever make you understand
                                    yourself—between his books and yours. I have, as yet,
                                    read but one of the books—"Changing
                                        Base"17 and it is to me, rich
                                    in the lessons taught. I hope that you will beleive in my
                                    sincerity. One place in speaking of debating clubs you say that
                                    you "owe more to one or two good debating societies of
                                    your boyhood than you can easily tell" Now 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     is in one respect a very strange place as far as
                                    boys are concerned. Now I have all reasons to beleive, having
                                    read biographies of most of the orators, that debating societies
                                    are truly important organizations for boys. A friend and myself
                                    have for some time been attempting to organize a club, but the
                                    boys here take no interest in such things at all, and we have
                                    been unsuccessful. One of my heroes is Seargant S.
                                    Prentiss—in fact, I can't explain the cause,
                                    but the great southerner is more of an inspiration to me than
                                    any other modern. He too 
                              
                                 15 Dante Alighieri and John 
                                                Milton
                                            .
                              
                                 16
                                            
                                                Hamilton
                                             Wright Mabie, editor, critic, and essayist,
                                            was a well-known interpreter of literature and ethics
                                            and did much to promote American culture. Editor of The Christian Union and Outlook, he
                                            also wrote many books for young and old. Bowers refers
                                            to 
                                                Hamilton
                                             Wright Mabie, Under the Trees
                                                and Elsewhere (
                                                New York
                                            , 1891).
                              
                                 17 William Everett, Changing Base, or What Edward Rice Learnt at
                                            School (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1868).
                           
                                     claimed to have received
                                    much of his oratorical training in a college Debating club
                                    consisting of but five members. Well, my friend and myself with
                                    two others who are willing to go at things in earnest have
                                    decided to form a club upon the same plan. Now which would be of
                                    most benefit—to select the subject of debate before
                                    hand and have set speeches prepared, or to decide upon a subject
                                    in the meeting and speak without formal preperation? What would
                                    be your ideal debating club for boys?
                        There is a school club called the Senate which contains seventy
                                    members and is open to all who have taken Civil Government. The
                                    Senate is governed by the regular Senate rules, and each member
                                    has a Senatorial name. I am a member of the Senate but it wastes
                                    so much time in absolute foolishness—on useless
                                    points of order and things of that sort—a real speech
                                    being very seldom delivered.18 What kind of
                                    subjects ought a club of boys to discuss? Don't you
                                    think that political and social questions would prove at once,
                                    interesting and valuable.
                        The High School has been challenged to a debate by another
                                    school, and it has been so very stupid as to select me as one of
                                    its four representatives, so my vacation must be spent in
                                        study.19
                        
                        Oh yes, your of "School Sermons" which I know
                                    will prove charming, reminds me of a serious fault in my
                                        make-up(?).20 I am afraid that I have
                                    not enough of the spiritual about me—which fault I
                                    know to be common among ordinary boys. But I frankly confess
                                    that I am woefully ignorant of the Bible. The fact is, I hardly
                                    know how to approach it, so as to become interested and thought
                                    perhaps you might be able to make a suggestion that would set me
                                    right.
                        
                           
                              18 A brief discussion of the Senate
                                        may be found in 
                                            Hamilton
                                         and Thornbrough, 
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in the "Gay
                                        Nineties," 5-6, 93-94, 109-10, and passim.
                           
                           
                              19 The debate was held between 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         High School and the Industrial Training School
                                        (later Manual Training High School).Lawrence B. Davis,
                                        George J. Langsdale, Jr., Ernest L. Talbert, and Bowers
                                        represented 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         High School. Horace Gwin, Felix F.Ballard, Hans
                                        O. Stechan, and Arthur Meng spoke for the Industrial
                                        Training School. The subject was "Are We Ready for
                                        Dismemberment of Armies and for Submitting All International
                                        Questions to a Permanent Board of Arbitration?" The
                                        judges, William P. Fishback, Hilton U. Brown, and Charles F.
                                        Coffin awarded a unanimous decision to 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         High School. 
                                            Hamilton
                                         and Thornbrough, 
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in the "Gay
                                        Nineties," 111n.
                           
                              20 William Everett, School Sermons Preached to the Boys at Adams Academy,
                                                  
                                    Quincy, Massachusetts
                                 
                               (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1882). Bowers apparently placed a hyphen above
                                        and between the "e" and
                                        "u" in "makeup." The
                                        question mark in parentheses is also in the original
                                    letter.
                        
                        
                        Recognizing as I do, the intellectual and spiritual importance of
                                    the Book, I feel that a seventeen year-old boy is none too young
                                    to begin a cultivated Bibical acquaintance. I shall read your
                                    "Sermons" with sincere faithfulness. Indeed I
                                    shall keep the four books as long as I live, and value them as
                                    long.
                        Pardon me—I did not know I had written so much.
                                    Wishing you a New Year of health and happiness
                        
                                    I am Your Sincere boy friend
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St.
                                 
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        Jan. 30-'97.
                                    
                                    Mr. Wm Everett Dear Friend:-
                                
                        If any of my boy friends had read your witty and almost sarcastic
                                    letter, I am quite sure that they would have selected as the
                                    most humorous passage of all, the one in which you ask if I ever
                                    laugh. Well among my friends here, I am usually as gay as the
                                    gayest, but shut up in a room by myself, my thoughts invariably
                                    run in a serious channel in as far as a boy can be truly
                                    serious. But you know a persons environments has much to do with
                                    his temperment, and mine have not always been of the gayest
                                    character But other causes governed me in not attempting
                                    anything funny in my letters to you. Last
                                    Oct., Geo. Fred Williams21 of your state
                                    delivered a free silver speech in this city to as large and
                                    enthusiastic a political gathering perhaps, as was held here
                                    during the campaign. But you know, western enthusiasm, like
                                    western humor and western sarcasm, is on a great broad scale,
                                    and not so delicate, I suspect, nor so elegant as that of Mass.
                                    and New 
                                        England
                                     throughout. When we wish to make our approval very
                                    emphatic, we do not give the conventional hand—clap,
                                    but allow our individuality to have more play, yelling,
                                    screaming, shouting as the spirit moves us. Well during
                                    Williams' invective against the awful financial
                                    conspiracy, he was repeatedly interrupted with applause-a
                                    noticable feature of which was given by an honest 
                              
                                 21 George Fred Williams, a 
                                                Boston
                                             lawyer, served one term in the national
                                            Congress, ran unsuccessfully for 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             governor in 1895, 1896, and 1897, and was
                                            named minister to 
                                                Greece
                                             in 1913. He was the leading Bryan Democrat
                                            in 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             from 1896 on.
                           
                                     old Hoosier farmer on the
                                    front row, who allowed his heavy deep voice, the widest possible
                                    range in a yell beginning in the lowest key, gradually ascending
                                    to the highest, and then gradually dying away. This seemed to
                                    grate rather harshly upon Mr. Williams nerves, and, after
                                    bearing it a few times, he temporarily forgot Wall and Lombard
                                        streets,22 and turning fiercely upon his
                                    unceremonious admirer, he shook his fist at has face and fairly
                                    thundered out the declaration:-"Sir, that's
                                    not applause, that's interruption". A
                                    gentleman siting by me explained the unusual conduct of the
                                    speaker by informing me that "Williams was from Mass.
                                    anyway" And so I have ever since thought it best to
                                    maintain a very serious and rigid deportment in all
                                    communications with a man from Mass. But I appreciate to the
                                    fullest extent, the criticism so kindly offered.
                        But please do not think that I have such gloomy cast of mind, as
                                    to dislike the fire, energy, vividness, dashing freedom and
                                    fresh purity of Sir. Walter Scotts poetry. He is one of my
                                    favorite poets and I have memorized more from Sir. Walter, than
                                    from any other. But I am not so very fond of his
                                    prose—don't like his characters at all, as
                                    they all seem so unreal like dreams, tinsoldiers, phantoms. And
                                    then the novels are all so much the same thing in plot.
                        No, from my knowledge of boy's reading, we are not
                                    enthusiastic readers of the great English
                                    novelist—Dickens—and I must frankly
                                    acknowledge that I have never read one of his novels entirely
                                    through. If you will not wax sarcastic over the term, I suppose
                                    I could call my favorite novel the philosophic-realistic such as
                                    are written by Eliot, Hugo, Hawthorn and the great Russian
                                        reformer.23 Surely, "Les
                                    Miserables" is one of the most remarkable books I ever
                                    read, possessing, as it does, the wonderful power to stimulate
                                    thought and feeling—yes and controversy. Among a
                                    particular class of boys I find that Hugo is a prime favorite,
                                    in spite of all this unfavorable criticism which is heaped upon
                                    it from the moral stand-point. Do you think it a healthy
                                    sentiment for boys?
                        As to Mabie, I did not mean to give you the impression that I
                                    thought him a profound writer by any means, but as 
                              
                                 22 Lombard Street, 
                                                London
                                            , the English equivalent of Wall Street, is
                                            occupied by bankers and is a place of much importance in
                                            the 
                                                London
                                             commercial world.
                              
                                 23 Charles Dickens, George Eliot
                                            (Marian Evans), Victor Hugo, and Nathaniel Hawthorne.
                                            The "great Russian reformer" may have
                                            been Count Leo Tolstoy (Lev Nikolayevich
                                        Tolstoi).
                           
                                     an artist in words, as a
                                    painter of common rustic scenes he always succeeds in arousing
                                    within me, delightful reccolections of the summer time. He is
                                    something of a favorite among literary people of this city. He
                                    lectured here last week.
                        I am very busy just now making arrangements for a lecture by
                                    Joaquin Miller, the "poet of the Sierras"24 who magnanimously offered to lecture, for
                                    the financial benefit of our magazine, next week just before
                                    returning to his home in 
                                        California
                                    .
                        But—Mr Everett ought not the study of history to be
                                    systemized ? Ought it to be studied by periods? or by
                                    nationalities? If a person throughly familiarizes himself with
                                    the history of 
                              Greece,
                                            Rome, England
                           , and 
                                        France
                                    , would it not be possible for him to study all
                                    other national histories through general works? I am not very
                                    fond of military history, prefering much, to trace out the
                                    development in governments through evolutions in the character
                                    of the peoples, or through revolutions their causes and results.
                                    In a general way I have read history rather extensively, but
                                    with no particular purpose in view, other than learning the
                                    facts for their own sake. Now for the study of governmental
                                    history are there any special works which you would reccommend?
                                    I ask this because a few boys and girls have organized a club
                                    for that purpose, which begins work next month. In the meanwhile
                                    we are to get all the suggestions possible. I have been told
                                    that boys should not read history in this way in connection with
                                    civics as the comparisons between past and present might not
                                    leave our minds in the most happy and contented state, but I
                                    don't beleive in any such doctrine at all. In a
                                    republican form of government it seems to me highly important
                                    that the growing generation should be perfectly acquainted with
                                    social and political conditions, however rotten they may be.
                                    Things usually grow bad by slow degrees, and unless we who are
                                    to be the future men of America, have the distinction drawn
                                    between the good and bad early in life, we will necessarily
                                    accept things as they are upon reaching our manhood, as matter
                                    of fact only. And so, it would take but a few generations in
                                    this way, to bring about an entirely new sentiment in
                                    government. Why not draw comparisons as we go along? If as Henry
                                    says we 
                              
                                 24 Joaquin Miller was born
                                            Cincinnatus Hiner Miller in Liberty, 
                                                Union County
                                            , Indiana. As a child he lived briefly in 
                                                Lebanon
                                            , Indiana, before moving to 
                                                California
                                            . Miller was an eccentric who traveled
                                            around the country lecturing and giving readings of his
                                            own poetry. In 1897-1898 he was Klondike correspondent
                                            for the 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            Journal.
                              
                           
                                     can only judge the future
                                    by the past,25 what harm is there in a
                                    school-boys looking at present conditions in the light of
                                    history? If the depression [of] the farming classes has been the
                                    source of every nations decline, and if in America the land of
                                    our farmers is passing from their hands, leaving them to the
                                    tender mercy of land-lords, why should not a patriotic American
                                    boy feel alarmed at the prospects? I have been told in the
                                    schools that we should not allow our minds to dwell for an
                                    instant upon such subjects, but I don't beleive it. And
                                    since they won't tolerate any thing of the kind in
                                    school, we have organized a club of our own. But
                                    oh—what fertile ground for some-ones awful sarcasm! I
                                    had not intended this time to offer myself "so sweetly
                                    to the knife", but I have been most too free perhaps in
                                    telling you, a man of learning and experience, the petty
                                    opinions of a mere boy. Yet I can console myself with the
                                    knowledge that what-ever may be lacking in prudence, is at least
                                    balanced by the most absolute frankness.
                        
                                    Truly your friend and debtor
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St
                                  
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        March, [18?]-'97.
                                    
                                    Mr. Wm Everett Dear Friend:-
                                
                        During the last three weeks, I have been very busy, in school and
                                    out, or I would have answered your last kind letter sooner.
                                    Joaquin Miller has come and gone after a very successful
                                    engagement here. James Whitcomb Riley introduced him and
                                    although I very seldom read any of Rileys poems, and never then,
                                    with admiration, the meeting between the two celebrated poets
                                    was to me quite interesting and unique. They are great friends
                                    and though they have many things in common, even to a bad
                                    reputation, they are the direct opposites to all out-ward
                                    appearance. Riley dresses always in the height of fashion, and
                                    courts the latest fad, 
                              
                                 25 The following quotation from a 
                                                Boston
                                             newspaper appears in [Ignatius Donnelly],
                                                Caesar's Column: A Story of
                                                the Twentieth Century (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1890) 107: "The eloquent Patrick
                                            Henry said: ‘We can only judge the future by
                                            the past.’" Bowers had read Caesar's Column and had
                                            corresponded with its author. See 
                                                Norman
                                             Pollack, "Handlin on
                                            Anti-Semitism: A Critique of ‘American Views
                                            of the Jew,’" Journal
                                                of American History, LI (December, 1964),
                                        403.
                           
                                     while as for
                                    Miller's apparel, one might readily beleive it the same
                                    his father wore to 
                                        California
                                     forty years ago. Yet, with all his senseless
                                    defiance of custom, he appeared to me what Lincoln would have
                                    called "a man.,"26—tall, strong in body as in feature,
                                    commanding in action, I should judge, but meek, humble and
                                    lovable in repose. His great massy hair and heavy beard, now
                                    well tinged with grey, imparts to him, a patriarchal air,
                                    inviting confidence, and his kindly blue eyes, which dreamy and
                                    soulful seem resting ever upon something afar off, give an added
                                    force to the invitation. His voice is mellow and musical. In his
                                    room at the hotel, he had ever before him, incased in velvet, an
                                    image of his beautiful daughter Juanita who he says is the
                                    "one remaining light of his life." Of one
                                    thing I am quite sure—if as Emerson says
                                    "the inner-most does become the
                                        outermost"27 the appearance of
                                    Joaquin Miller gives the direct lie to the vile-mouthed Rumor
                                    that has of late given so many foul stories concerning the poet
                                    to the world. He spoke of his friend—and yours I
                                    suspect John P. Irish28 with the most
                                    enthusiastic praise, and every other week while at home, he
                                    gives a great spreadout for his friend the politician. Irish you
                                    know, wears no tie. Well Miller out-does him, in that he wears
                                    no collar. Being a native of this state, the poet while here was
                                    invited to visit and if possible address the Legislature. Upon
                                    my presenting him with the Leut. Governor's note, he
                                    turned to Wagner his Secretary and with a look of real fright
                                    upon his face, placed his hand on his bare neck and
                                    exclaimed—"Now what will I
                                    do. You know that collar is packed away in the
                                    trunk." His lecture is conceded to have been grandest
                                    heard in this city for some time and yet the granduer consisted
                                    wholly in the simplicity—, simplicity of language,
                                    simplicity of sentiment and delivery. He spoke of nature with
                                    that tenderness of appreciation, which I imagine would have
                                        
                              
                                 26 According to tradition Abraham
                                            Lincoln in 1864 saw Walt Whitman passing the White House
                                            and commented, "Well, he
                                            looks like A MAN." The story was reported to
                                            Whitman in a letter from A. Van Rensellaer and was
                                            publicized by William D. O'Connor in his The Good Gray Poet: A Vindication (
                                                New York
                                            , 1866). Although historians have since
                                            refuted the accuracy of this story, Bowers, who was an
                                            admirer of Whitman, may refer to this statement. See
                                            William E. Barton, Abraham Lincoln and Walt
                                                Whitman (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1928).
                              
                                 27 No reference has been found to
                                            this quotation.
                              
                                 28 John Powell Irish, teacher,
                                            journalist, editor, and politician, was a Gold Democrat
                                            from 
                                                Iowa
                                            . He was an unsuccessful candidate for
                                            Congress in 1872, was a candidate for governor of 
                                                Iowa
                                             in 1877, and was a member of the executive
                                            committee of the Monetary Conference in 1897 which
                                            framed the gold standard and other related financial
                                            legislation.
                           
                                     characterized the primitive
                                    poet. In short, he was elemental in all things.29 In this he
                                    reminded me of Whitman. Now I do not claim to understand Whitman
                                    but I have read some of his "Leaves of Grass"
                                    which I truly admire. They seem to cut the imagination loose and
                                    stir the mind to thought.
                        The High School won the debate which I once mentioned, by a
                                    unanimous decision, and I being our last speaker, have been
                                    given too much credit which is bad, and many prizes and books
                                    which is good. Among the latter, I had given me by Mr. Fishback
                                    the lawyer and ex. pardner of Harrisons, a splendid little book
                                    on "The Principles of Argumentation" by Prof.
                                    Baker of 
                                        Harvard
                                    .30 I suspect, (Fishback having
                                    been one of the Judges) that he thought I needed something in
                                    that line very badly.
                        We have now begun the study of John 
                                        Milton
                                    's "Paradise Lost" and I
                                    should like to get as much out of the first reading as possible.
                                    I think his diction simply wonderful, and would delight in the
                                    reading of his works were I not constantly falling into the
                                    sloughs of classical allusion which necessitates frequent visits
                                    to the library for reference. How do they study 
                                        Milton
                                     in 
                                        Harvard
                                    , and how would you teach it to a fellow like
                                    myself? I had thought some of reading it once over throughly,
                                    acquainting myself perfectly with the allusions and unusual
                                    phrases, and then write it out in my own language, retaining the
                                    sentiment as nearly as possible. This is in fact a tremendous
                                    job but such work as that has been of great benefit to me in the
                                    past.
                        I have also begun Guzot's "History of European
                                    Civilizations" as an introduction to a more minute
                                    study but I am not so sure about this course. I would like very
                                    much to read Grotes 
                                        Greece
                                     and Gibbons 
                                        Rome
                                     if such were possible but as it is, I shall use
                                    them as reference.31
                        
                        
                           
                              29 For a further description of Miller
                                        and his visit to 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         see Bowers, My Life, 30-32.
                           
                              30 William P. Fishback, an 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         lawyer, was a law partner of Benjamin Harrison
                                        from 1862 to 1870. Fishback edited the Indian apolis Daily
                                        Journal and a 
                                            St. Louis
                                         newspaper for a short time. He served as dean
                                        of the Indiana Law School Department of the University of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         from its founding in 1894 until his death in
                                        1901. The book Fishback gave Bowers was George Pierce Baker,
                                            Principles of Argumentation (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1895).
                           
                              31 Francois Pierre Guillaume Guizot,
                                            General History of Civilization in Europe,
                                            from the Fall of the Roman Empire to the French
                                            Revolution, trans. by William Hazlitt (4 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1879); George Grote, A History of 
                                                Greece
                                             from the Earliest Period to the Close of
                                            the Generation Contempomry with Alexander the Great
                                        (12 vols., 
                                            London
                                        , 1869-1870); Edward Gibbon, The
                                            History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
                                        (8 vols., 
                                            Philadelphia
                                        , 1804).
                        
                        
                        
                           PAGE FROM ONE OF BOWERS’ LETTERS. FOR PRINTED VERSION SEE P. 224
                        
                        
                        I have recently been reading a biography of Danton the
                                    much-cursed leader of the Parisian mob, and have come to the
                                    conclusion that of all the great characters of history, there
                                    are but few names, that can out-shine in love for humanity, and
                                    in ultimate benefit to humanity the name of Geo F Danton.
                                    Judgeing from his public actions, I should think that he was a
                                    great-minded, golden-hearted man—a victim of
                                    circumstances. I think if that some Danton should rise up in
                                    Russia today and purge her misery with the blood of some of her
                                    tyrants, she, in common with all the world would be the better
                                    for [it].32
                        
                        I wish to submit to you a plan which a friend of mine in the law
                                    school here and myself intend to work up, this summer if
                                    possible. We who are shut up within the four walls of a school
                                    building, with boys and girls who are generally in excellent
                                    circumstance, financially and socially, are very much dulled by
                                    books alone and sadly narrowed in understanding. We are all very
                                    much alike, have the same point of view, the same character of
                                    mind, the same passions and prejudices. My plan is to form a large debating club composed almost wholly of
                                    laborers of all discriptions between the ages of 17 and 25. We
                                    will get a large room down town, and hold weekly meetings,
                                    discussing all manner of passing political and social questions.
                                    Now most of these laborers will be naturally nerved against
                                    conviction by prejudice, and to overcome this stubborn
                                    prejudice, it seems to me would be the best possible exercise.
                                    In this way I would be brought into contact with another world,
                                    would form new acquaintances, and hear the expressions of new
                                    veiws. Do you think a33 plan like this would
                                    "hold water"?
                        I suppose of course you were very much interested in the late
                                    affair at 
                                        Carson City
                                    . But is it not rather unbecoming the dignity of a
                                    great and truly eloquent Ex-Senator, to write 
                              
                                 32 The biography Bowers was
                                            reading may have been Laurence Gronlund, Ca
                                                Iraf Or, Danton in the French Revolution. (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1888).
                              
                                 33 One page of Bowers'
                                            letter ended with this phrase. In the top margin of the
                                            next page he wrote, "Ind'pls is
                                            prouder of Harrisons daughter, than of her
                                            father." Benjamin Harrison's daughter,
                                            Elizabeth, was born February 21, 1897, to Harrison and
                                            his second wife, Mrs. Mary Scott Lord Dimmock.
                           
                                     up such a disgrace for the
                                    press? I can hardly imagine Webster Choate, 
                                        Clay
                                    , or Calhoun acting in that capacity. It almost
                                    drives one to the conclusion that the doctrine of degeneration
                                    is not such a bad thing after all.34 Spring
                                    vacation comes next week and a few boys, myself among them are
                                    going on a weeks tramp in the country. In your last letter you
                                    seemed to apologize for the criticisms you had made upon my
                                    "veiws and style". I assure you that none of
                                    your criticisms have in any way "cut" me,
                                    because I know that all boys must undergo a great amount of
                                    pruning and the sooner the better. The spring has opened so
                                    brightly that I can hardly keep off the country roads.
                        
                                    Sincerely your friend and debtor
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 317. N. Ala. St.
                                 
                                    
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        July 26-1897.
                                    
                                    Dr Wm Everett, Dear Friend:-
                                
                        A faint fear that my last letter may not have reached you is my
                                    only motive in writing you at this time. If such is the case you
                                    are, no doubt, under the impression that I am a most uncivil and
                                    ungratful wretch. If however such is not the
                                    case and you have received the letter but have failed to answer
                                    owing to lack of either time or disposition, I am, nevertheless
                                    everlastingly in debt to you for your unusual kindness and
                                    courtesy in the past. During this vacation my days are given up
                                    to work in the city library and my nights to reading and
                                    writing. Am reading Thier's
                        34 On March 17, 1897, a prizefight was held in 
                                        Carson City
                                    , Nevada, between Robert Fitzsimmons and James J.
                                    Corbett for the heavyweight championship. Ex-Senator John J.
                                    Ingalls of 
                                        Kansas
                                     attended the fight and visited both contenders.
                                    Since Ingalls had developed a trenchant literary style and
                                    frequently wrote for newspapers and periodicals, he may have
                                    written up the fight and thus incurred Bowers' wrath.
                                    Bowers refers to Daniel Webster, Rufus Choate, Henry 
                                        Clay
                                    , and John C. Calhoun.
                        
                        "French Revolution", DeQuincey's
                                    "Confessions", Scotts poetry, and
                                    Prentiss' orations.35
                        
                        
                                    Hoping that you are perfectly happy and comfortable
                                        during this warm summer, I am ever Your friend
                                    Claude G. Bowers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  35 Marie Joseph Souis Adolph Thiers, The
                            History of the French Revolution, trans. by Frederick Schoberl (4
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1883); Thomas DeQuincey, Confessions of an
                            English Opium-Eater (
                            London
                        , 1822).
            
         
         
         
            A Letter from Claude G. Bowers to Shortridge High School, 1948
            
                    Contributed by Jean Grubb
                    *
                    Edited by Lorna Lutes Sylvester
                
            During the editing of the correspondence from Claude G. Bowers to William
                    Everett, Miss Jean Grubb, director of publications at Shortridge High School,
                    provided the editors of the Indiana Magazine of History with a
                    photostatic copy of the letter reproduced below. Written by Bowers in 1948 to J.
                    W. Hadley, principal of Shortridge, the letter amplifies information found in
                    the earlier Bowers-Everett correspondence, provides further descriptions of
                    Shortridge and its illustrious alumnus, and illustrates that Bowers remained
                    "a dreadfully poor speller" throughout his life. The occasion
                    for the letter was the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of The Daily Echo, the high school newspaper. Bowers, who was serving as 
                        United States
                     ambassador to 
                        Chile
                     in 1948, was unable to attend; but his letter indicates a
                    continuing interest in his high school alma mater and his gratitude for the
                    education he received there. Although Bowers throughout the letter refers to his
                    days at Shortridge, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School was not so renamed until 1898, shortly after
                    Bowers' graduation. Grateful acknowledgement is made to Shortridge High
                    School, which holds the photostat of the original, for permission to use this
                    letter.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Santiago,
                              
                                        January 24, 19481
                              
                                    
                                    Dear Prof.Hadley:-2
                           
                                
                        An invitation to participate in the annversary celebration of The
                                    Echo reached me from Dorothy McCullough after the event but had
                                    I been within the 
                                        United States
                                     at the time I would have made en effort to attend.
                                    What 
                              
                                 * Miss Jean Grubb is a
                                            teacher and director of publications at Shortridge High
                                            School, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana.
                              
                                 1 The punctuation, capitalization,
                                            spelling, and spacing of the original typewritten letter
                                            have been retained as nearly as possible in this
                                            reproduction. Bowers apparently typed the original
                                            letter him self, hence many of the mistakes are
                                            typographical in nature. Several written corrections,
                                            presumably in Bowers' handwriting, have been
                                            included. The editor was aided in identifying persons
                                            and places by Holman 
                                                Hamilton
                                             and Gayle Thornbrough (eds.), 
                                    
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                 in the "Gay
                                                Nineties": High School Diaries of Claude G.
                                                Bowers (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1964); Claude Bowers, My
                                                Life: The Memoirs of Claude Bowers (
                                                New York
                                            , 1962) ; and Miss Jean Grubb, director of
                                            publications, Shortridge High School, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana. Bowers wrote this letter from
                                            Santiago, 
                                                Chile
                                            . He served as 
                                                United States
                                             ambassador to this South American country
                                            from 1939-1953 and recorded his impressions of it in 
                                    
                                                  Chile
                                                 through Embassy Windows, 1939-1953 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1958).
                              
                                 2 Joel W. Hadley was principal of
                                            Shortridge High School from 1948-1960. He is now retired
                                            and resides at Arlington, Indiana.
                           
                                     a record—fifty
                                    years! I was in Shortridge when the paper was launched ,but I am
                                    a bit confused as between The Echo and The Comet which I think
                                    preceeded it a year or so and I assume that the latter was
                                    merged with the former.3 I remember a meeting in which Pax
                                    Hibben and Fletcher Wagner were the inspirers to discuss the
                                    publishing of a paper.4 I was on the board
                                    of The Comet. That it continued in some form as late as March
                                    1898 is clear in that I have a copy of the issue celebrating the
                                    winning of the oratorical contest in 
                                        Richmond
                                     ,the binding in the colors of the school.3 My first venture in print was in the
                                    writing of articles on my impressions of great orators I had
                                    heard, published in several issues of one or the other of these
                                    papers.
                        I doubt if any one knows that two boys, George Langesdale6 and l,almost gave Indiana a new Edinburg
                                    Review while we were in Shortridge. I had read an autobiography
                                    of Lord Brougham and it seemed to me—ah the optimism
                                    of youth!— that there was no reason why Indiana
                                    should not have an Edinburg Review.7 I wrote
                                    letters to almost every literary 
                              
                                 3 Miss Dorothy McCullough is an
                                            alumna of Shortridge and of the Shortridge
                                                Daily Echo staff. She served on the committee
                                            which planned the observance of fifty years of
                                            continuous publication. In January, 1967, Miss
                                            McCullough retired from her position as chairman of the
                                            English department at Tudor Hall, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana. The Comet was a
                                            weekly magazine published at the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             High School in 1897 and 1898. Paxton
                                            Hibben, originator of the magazine, was its editor. The
                                                Shortridge Daily Echo, the
                                            school's newspaper, began publication on
                                            September 26, 1898, and is still being published.
                                            Fletcher Wagner was its first editor.
                              
                                 4 Paxton Pattison Hibben, a native
                                            of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , graduated from 
                                                Princeton
                                             and 
                                                Harvard
                                            , entered the diplomatic service, did some
                                            news paper work, and served in the 
                                                United States
                                             Army. He authored brilliant biographies of
                                            Henry Ward Beecher (
                                                New York
                                            , 1927) and William Jennings Bryan (
                                                New York
                                            , 1929). Always a controversial figure,
                                            Hibben's character intrigued the more staid
                                            Bowers. Fletcher Wagner graduated from Shortridge in
                                            1899, attended Leland 
                                                Stanford
                                             University and then 
                                                Harvard
                                            . Shortly after failing to receive a Rhodes
                                            Scholarship for which he had been nominated, Wagner left 
                                                Cambridge
                                             and was never heard from thereafter.
                              
                                 5 Bowers won the state oratorical
                                            contest held in 
                                                Richmond
                                            , Indiana, on March 25, 1898. His topic was "
                                                Hamilton
                                             the Constructionist." The 
                                                Richmond city
                                             newspapers as well as the school
                                            publications described the event and the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             High School delegation, nearly 400 strong,
                                            which accompanied Bowers to 
                                                Richmond
                                            . The contest and prep arations therefor are
                                            described in Bowers, My Life, 39; 
                                                Hamilton
                                             and Thornbrough, 
                                    
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                 in the "Gay
                                            Nineties," 124-27, 155, 156, 158, 159-60,
                                            162, 164, 165, 166-68.
                              
                                 6 Bowers often spoke of George J.
                                            Langsdale, Jr., whose father was president of the
                                            Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors'
                                            Monument Commission. After the younger Langsdale
                                            graduated from the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             High School, he served for a time as
                                            private secretary to his brother-in-law, 
                                                United States
                                             Senator Albert J. Beveridge. He later lived
                                            in the West.
                              
                                 7 This is the magazine to which
                                            Bowers refers in his correspondence with Everett. Lord
                                            Henry Peter Brougham assisted in the promulgation of the
                                            Edinburgh Review and wrote many articles for it.
                           
                                     and political celebrity in
                                    the country modestly soliciting articles, poems,
                                        stories—free. It is still
                                    astonishing to me that almost all responded favorably. I
                                    remember a morning in the too Victorian front room of President
                                        Harrisons when he agreed to write
                                    something for us, and I can see him still, old, with
                                    innumberable tiny wrinkles, sitting facing the yard and testing
                                    our faith with innumberable objections.8 At
                                    length we had enough articles to make a magazine as large as
                                    Harpers for a full year. Taking no one into our confidence, we
                                    went to a job printer for an estimate on the cost and the amount
                                    crushed us. So we sent the articles back. When I was Ambassador
                                    in 
                                        Spain
                                     the manuscript division of the Congressional
                                    Library sent me a copy of my letter to Carl Schurz, found in his
                                    papers there,9 and I was shocked by its
                                    crudity and I marveled all the more on how we ever got favorable
                                    replies. We asked Joaquin Miller "Poet of the
                                    Serras" for a poem and he replied from Cincinnitti that
                                    Indiana was his native State and he had not been back since he
                                    left for the gold rush in 
                                        California
                                     ,and that he not only would give us the poem but
                                    would stop off in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and deliver a lecture we might arrange and give the
                                    proceeds to the magazine. We importuned the editors of the
                                    papers for editorials on "the home-coming of Joaquin
                                    Miller" and we packed the old 
                                        Plymouth
                                     Church with the leading citizens and Riley made the
                                    Introduction. We saw him bending over his desk on the balcony of
                                    the Bobbs-Merril Compan[y] then on 
                                        Washington
                                     Street writing this introduction, which was a prose
                                    poem ,and the only relic of the Hoosier Edinburg Review is that
                                    introduction which was used as the introduction later to Millers
                                    complete works.10
                        
                        I give this to illustrate the literary flavor of Shortridge in
                                    those days when Charity Dye and Mrs Carey and Mrs 
                              
                                 8 Bowers describes his visit to
                                            former President Harrison's home in Bowers, My Life, 27-29. Harrison's
                                            home in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             is located at 1230 (674 old style) North 
                                                Delaware
                                             Street.
                              
                                 9 Bowers served as ambassador to 
                                                Spain
                                             from 1933-1939 during the troubled Spanish
                                            Civil War years. He records his life there in My Mission to 
                                                  Spain
                                                : Watching the Rehearsal for World War
                                                II (
                                                New York
                                            , 1954). Carl Schurz was a German-American
                                            statesman and reformer who was prominent in the
                                            Republican party during and after the American Civil
                                            War.
                              
                                 10
                                            
                                                Plymouth
                                             Congregational Church was located at the
                                            southeast corner of 
                                                New York
                                             and Meridian streets. The Bobbs-Merrill
                                            Publishing Company, formerly Bowen-Merrill, published
                                            most of Riley's books; and according to Bowers,
                                            the "Hoosier Poet" had a desk at the
                                            publishing house which was located at Number 9, West 
                                                Washington
                                             Street. Bowers, My Life, 30-31.
                                            Riley's introduction of Miller may be found in
                                            Harr Wagner, Joaquin Miller and His Other
                                                Self (
                                                San Francisco
                                            , 1929), 163-64.
                           
                                     Hufford'11 were pounding literary appreciation into
                                    the heads of the youngsters.
                        My recollections of Hufford and Mrs. Hufford are vivid, but Laura
                                        Donnan12 was one of the most remarkable
                                    of teachers. I have known many great women, some of
                                    international repute, and I have seen none that seemed to
                                    measure up to this old Shortridge teacher. She did more to
                                    awaken the civic consciousness of the young and to make them
                                    useful citizens than all other agencies in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     combined. My own debt to her is beyond measure. Is
                                    there a bust of her at Shortridge—Mrs Richards,?13 There ought to be and that would not be
                                    enough.
                        Please give the editors of The Echo my congratulations.A school
                                    paper that has survived fifty years is distinguished ,and the
                                    editors should be proud of their association with it. I am proud
                                    of my meagre part in introducing journalism or newspaper work
                                    into Shortridge.
                        
                                    Sincerely,
                                    
                              [Signed] Claude G. Bowers
                                        Ambassador
                                    
                                        Prof. J. W. Hadley
                                        
                                 Shortridge High School
                                 
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana.
                              
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  11 Charity Dye taught in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         school system for thirty-eight years, most of the time in the
                        English Department at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         High School. Her interest and example greatly influenced
                        Bowers. Miss Dye wrote many books for young people, Some Torch
                            Bearers of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917) being among her best-known. Mrs. Angeline P. Carey also
                        taught English at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         High School and was one of the four teachers who became known
                        as the "Shortridge Immortals." (Laura Donnan, Eugene
                        Mueller, and Amelia Platter were the other three.) Mrs. Lois Grosvenor
                        Hufford taught in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         schools for fifty-one years, fourteen at the high school where
                        she headed the English Department. She wrote Shakespeare in
                            Tale and Verse, published by Macmillan Company, 
                            New York
                        , in 1906. Her husband, George W. Hufford, taught in the high
                        school until 1889 when he transferred to the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Industrial Training School as principal. Hufford returned to
                        the 
                            Indianapolis
                         High School in 1892 and served as principal there until 1902.
               
                  12 Of all his high school teachers Laura Donnan most
                        influenced and impressed the young Bowers. She taught classes in civil
                        government and political economy at the high school for forty-five years
                        from 1883 until 1928. She was founder of the high school Senate, which
                        Bowers frequently mentions, and was the author of a widely used text
                        entitled Our Government. Miss Donnan was herself a product
                        of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         High School and the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Normal School. She obtained her A.B. and A.M. from the
                        University of 
                            Michigan
                         and later attended 
                            Columbia
                         University. Bowers pays her a glowing tribute in My Life,
                        34-36.
               
                  13 After Miss Donnan's death former students
                        placed a bust of her by Laura Richards in Shortridge High School
                        "as a memorial to a truly great woman who made an indelible
                        impression on the thinking of a great community." Bowers, My Life, 35-36. Apparently Bowers is asking if Miss
                        Richards' bust of Miss Donnan is still in the high school.
            
         
         
         
            The Whig Campaign of 1840: The Editorial Policy of George D. Prentice
            
                    Betty Carolyn Congleton*
               
                
            The loss of popularity suffered by the Democrats as a result of the Panic of 1837
                    was an obvious advantage for the Whig party in the presidential campaign of
                    1840. A combination of heterogeneous groups organized in opposition to
                    Jacksonian Democracy, the Whigs were confronted with the necessity of selecting
                    a candidate who could win the support of the diverse groups within the party.
                    The principal contenders for the nomination were William Henry Harrison, Daniel
                    Webster, and the ever-ambitious Henry 
                        Clay
                    .
            In previous presidential campaigns 
                        Clay
                    's staunchest editorial support in 
                        Kentucky
                     had come from the pen of George D. Prentice, editor of the 
                        Louisville
                     Daily Journal. Founded in November, 1830, to promote 
                        Clay
                    's candidacy in 1832, the Journal
                    promptly became the most widely circulated newspaper west of the mountains.1 A warm personal friend and admirer of 
                        Clay
                    , Prentice was also an astute politician who recognized the
                    necessity for unanimity within the Whig party in the campaign of 1840. He
                    believed that the Whigs must unite in favor of a candidate, chosen by a national
                    convention, who could attract the vote of the diverse elements 
                  
                     * Betty Carolyn Congleton is assistant
                            professor of history at East Carolina University, Greenville, 
                                North Carolina
                            .
                  
                     1 The son of Rufus and Sarah Stanton Prentice,
                            George D. Prentice was born in 
                                New London County
                            , 
                                Connecticut
                            , December 18, 1802. After graduation from 
                                Brown
                             University in 1823, he taught school and later studied
                            medicine and law before becoming editor of The New 
                                    England
                                 Review in 1826. In 1830 Prentice accepted an
                            invitation to write a campaign biography of Henry 
                                Clay
                            . With John Greenleaf Whittier in his chair as editor of the
                                Weekly Review, Prentice traveled to 
                                Kentucky
                             in midsummer, 1830 to collect material for the 
                                Clay
                             biography. Shortly after his arrival in 
                                Kentucky
                             he accepted the editorship of the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal. With A. J. Buxton, former proprietor of
                            the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Chronicle as publisher, the first issue of the Journal was distributed on November 24, 1830. Within a
                            short time Prentice's fame as a bold editor of unusual talent
                            spread across America. C. J. F. Birney, The History and
                                Genealogy of the Prentice or Prentiss Family in New 
                                    England
                                , from 1631 to 1852 (
                                Boston
                            , 1852), 1; Betty Carolyn Congleton, "The 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal: Its Origins and Early Years," The Register of the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Historical Society, LXII (April, 1964), 87-92. See
                            also Betty Carolyn Congleton, "George D. Prentice and His
                            Editorial Policy in National Politics, 1830-1861" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Dept. of History, University of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1962).
               
                     within the party and also win the support
                    of the discontented Democrats. 
                        Clay
                    's widely known political record and his defeats in 1824
                    and 1832 were regarded as decided disadvantages for the "Sage of
                        Ashland."2
            
            As early as August, 1837, 
                        Clay
                     addressed a letter to Prentice in which he suggested that,
                    regardless of his inclination, he should again be forced into the presidential
                    arena. "It is right," he wrote, "that I should put
                    you in possession of some of the information which has reached me."
                    Since election forecasts from 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and Indiana suggested the inevitable downfall
                    of the 
                        Van
                     Buren administration, 
                        Clay
                     surmised that "as a necessary consequence some Whig must
                    be elected, if we can unite in favor of anyone." He explained to
                    Prentice that in response to a letter of inquiry from a "Committee of
                    170" in 
                        New York City
                     he had said he did not wish to have his name used unless there was
                    reason to believe that he was favored by a majority of the Whigs throughout the
                    country. He further told Prentice: 
                  
                     
                        I have no wish, not the least wish to be run without a high
                                    degree of probability of success. If there be a convention, I
                                    shall most cheerfully acquiesce in its decision, be that what it
                                    may. … I think it premature to hold public meetings
                                    now and publicly to discuss at large the P. question; but
                                    perhaps some such occasional notice of me as I have hinted may
                                    serve to counteract the efforts to put me aside, or put me down
                                    by the zealous partisans of other candidates.3
                        
                     
                  
               
                    
                        Clay
                     was confident that western 
                        New York
                     preferred him to all other candidates; and he believed that he was
                    a strong contender throughout New 
                        England
                     and in 
                  South
                        Carolina, Louisiana,
                            Tennessee
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    . Believing that Prentice's 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Clay
                             had been active in the arena of national politcs since his
                            arrival in 
                                Washington
                             in 1811 to serve as 
                                Kentucky
                            's representative in the House. Promptly elected
                            Speaker, he also served as a leader of the "war hawks"
                            and commissioner to negotiate the Treaty of Ghent and was influential in
                            framing the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise. As the fourth man in the contest for the
                            presidency in 1824, 
                                Clay
                             gave his support to John 
                                Quincy
                             Adams who invited the Kentuckian to serve as secretary of
                            state, 1825-1829. 
                                Clay
                             was defeated in 1832 in his second bid for the presidency
                            against the incumbent Andrew Jackson. Widely known for his
                            "American System," which favored the protective tariff
                            and federal aid for internal improvements, 
                                Clay
                             also sponsored the Compromise Tariff of 1833. See Clement
                            Eaton, Henry 
                                    Clay
                                 and the Art of American Politics (
                                Boston
                            , 1957).
                  
                     3 Henry 
                                Clay
                             to George D. Prentice, August 14, 1837, typescript in the
                            papers of Henry 
                                Clay
                             assembled for publication by the University of 
                                Kentucky
                            , to be edited by James F. Hopkins and Mary W. M.
                            Hargreaves. Unless otherwise indicated all letters cited in this article
                            are typewritten copies from this collection, hereafter cited as 
                                Clay
                             Papers.
               
                     talents would be more valuable in the
                    capital city, the prospective candidate noted his desire that arrangements be
                    completed to entice the editor to move to 
                        Washington
                    .4
            
            Although there are no known extant issues of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal for 1838, Prentice probably followed 
                        Clay
                    's suggestion and expressed a preference for him as the
                    Whig presidential candidate.5 At least, several other
                    southern Whig newspapers endorsed the Kentuckian; and by 1839 the Whigs of
                            
                  Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, Virginia
               , and 
                        North Carolina
                     had indicated a preference for 
                        Clay
                    .6
            
            Early in January, 1839, Prentice already had begun to exercise extreme caution in
                    his comments concerning the leading Whig contenders for the nomination. He
                    informed his readers that because he had been among the first to urge the
                    selection of a candidate by a national convention, he was reluctant to print
                    anything about the prospective candidates.7 A few days later
                    he noted, "We perceive, that a writer in the 
                  
                            Cincinnati
                         Republican is publishing a series of voluminous articles
                    to prove the ‘capacity’ of General Harrison. Let Mr. 
                        Clay
                     be the candidate, and the Whigs will be saved the trouble of all
                    such disagreeable discussions."8 The next day,
                    however, following a comment on the scheduled date of the national convention,
                    he wrote: 
                        Whether the meeting of the Convention be early or late, we are confident
                            that the 
                                Kentucky
                             statesman will be nominated by an overwhelming majority;
                            and moreover, we have the consolation of knowing, that if the nomination
                            fall on the hero of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , we shall have for our candidate a distinguished and
                            venerable patriot, whom we have once supported with zeal and in whose
                            talents and virtues we still have unabated confidence.9
                  
                    Thus the editor of the Journal acknowledged that he
                    would support the Whig party in its bid for the presidency if either Harrison or 
                        Clay
                     were the candidate.
            
               
                  4
                        Ibid.
               
                  5 In January, 1838, following the suggestion of John
                        J. Crittenden, the 
                            Kentucky
                         legislature passed a resolution calling for a national
                        convention and at the same time endorsed 
                            Clay
                         for president. See Albert D. Kirwan, John J.
                            Crittenden: The Struggle for the Union (
                            Lexington
                        , 1962), 130.
               
                  6 Arthur Charles Cole, The Whig Party in
                            the South (
                            Washington
                        , 1913), 57.
               
                  7
                        
                            Louisville
                        
                        Daily Journal, January 11, 1839.
               
                  8
                        Ibid., January 17, 1839.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., January 18, 1839.
            
            
            The Whig National Convention was scheduled for December, 1839. During the early
                    weeks of that year 
                        Clay
                     became concerned when one of the Harrison faction prompted the
                    Whigs in 
                        Washington
                     to hold "several consultations" in regard to
                    rescheduling the convention for "September or some earlier
                        month."10 Apparently he believed that his bid
                    for the nomination would be strengthened if the meeting were held at the regular
                    time. In a letter to his son, the Kentuckian also noted that he was
                    "inclined" to believe that Webster had decided to lend his
                    support to the Harrison faction.11 Despite these
                    developments 
                        Clay
                     claimed that his prospects for the Whig nomination were
                        improving.12
            
            Prentice was obviously anxious to avoid extensive discussion of the contenders
                    for the Whig nomination. On May 1 he printed a brief notice of the national
                    convention scheduled to convene in 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , in December, 1839. A short time later
                    the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal listed the states of Indiana, 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina,
                            Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, Vermont, Rhode Island, New York, Connecticut, New
                        Jersey, Virginia, Louisiana
               , and 
                        Mississippi
                     in the Whig column with a total of 182 electoral votes. This tally
                    included thirty-four more votes that were needed for victory.13 Probably prompted by public ridicule, Prentice in mid-July admitted his
                    restraint in commenting on the Whig candidates and extolled the virtues of Henry
                            
                  Clay, Kentucky
               's "noblest and
                    greatest where many are noble and great… ."14
            
            As summer waned into autumn, there were widespread rumors of 
                        Clay
                    's expected withdrawal as a contender for the Whig
                    nomination. Although candidly informed of the rising strength of Harrison, 
                        Clay
                     insisted that he await the "proper moment" or
                    some "authentic form" before publicly announcing his
                        withdrawal.15 Such a time never came. The senator 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Clay
                             to Harrison Gray Otis, January 24, 1839, 
                                Clay
                             Papers; 
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, February 5, 1839, ibid.
                  
                  
                     11
                            
                                Clay
                             to Henry 
                                Clay
                            , Jr., January 18, 1839, Henry 
                                Clay
                             Memorial Foundation, 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     12
                            Ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to Harrison Gray Otis, February 18, 1839, 
                                Clay
                             Papers.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 22, 1839.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., July 17, 1839.
                  
                     15 Oliver H. Smith to 
                                Clay
                            , September 28, 1839, and 
                                Clay
                             to Oliver H. Smith, October 5, 1839, quoted in O. H. Smith,
                                Early Indiana Trials and Sketches: Reminiscences
                            … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 252-54; 
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, September 27, 1839, 
                                Clay
                             Papers; 
                                Clay
                             to William H. Seward, September 26, 1839, ibid.
                  
               
                     decided to leave the "issue to the
                    people and to 
                        Providence
                    ."16 As December 4, the date scheduled
                    for opening the convention in 
                        Harrisburg
                    , drew nearer, 
                        Clay
                     admitted that the Whigs were suffering from division within the
                    party. The report of an intensified movement to nominate Winfield Scott caused 
                        Clay
                     to suggest that the "firmness" of his friends was
                    the only security against the nomination of General Scott.17
                    Perseverence was not enough. On December 4, Leslie Combs, a prominent
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , attorney,
                    addressed to 
                        Clay
                     a confidential letter from 
                        Harrisburg
                     in which he declared, 
                  
                     
                        "You have been deceived betrayed and beaten by Northern
                                    abolition antimasonry and the Dutch and the Dane."
                     
                  
                Combs concluded, 
                  
                     
                        "There has in my opinion been a deliberate conspiracy
                                    against you by the friends of Mr. Webster…
                                        ."18
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In order to avoid any discussion that would hinder the national interest of the
                    Whig party, the Journal during the autumn of 1839 refrained
                    from mentioning the impending Whig National Convention. Finally, on December 6,
                    Prentice noted that the convention's deliberations had probably closed.
                    "We express no opinion as to the result. Our trust however, is, that
                    the country's delegates have put forward the best man, confiding his
                    cause to God and the people."19 Ten days later the
                        Journal printed the official tabulation of the
                    convention's final ballot. Directly under the masthead appeared the
                    following lines: 
                        "Union of the Whigs for the sake of the Union"
                            Nomination by the Whig National Convention for President WILLIAM HENRY
                            HARRISON, OF OHIO for Vice-president JOHN TYLER, OF VIRGINIA
                     In a column captioned "Our Position," Prentice
                    reminded his readers that, although he had advocated the nomination of 
                        Clay
                    , it was equally well known that he had declared his 
                  
                     16
                            
                                Clay
                             to Nathan Sargent, October 25, 1839, 
                                Clay
                             Papers.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, December 4, 1839, ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to Harrison Gray Otis, December 4, 1839, ibid.
                  
                  
                     18 Leslie Combs to 
                                Clay
                            , December 4, 1839, ibid. See also Freeman
                            Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                : William Henry Harrison and His Time (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 314-17; Dorothy Burne Goebel, William
                                Henry Harrison: A Political Biography (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1926), 341-44; Kirwan, John J.
                            Crittenden, 131.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, December 6, 1839.
               
                     determination to support the nominee of the
                    national convention.20 The names of Harrison and Tyler
                    remained under the Journal's masthead until after the
                    election.
            Harrison, an old military hero who had seldom taken an active or aggressive
                    position on controversial political issues, was the choice of the Whig National
                    Convention. Members felt he was least likely to offend large segments of the
                        electorate.21 Acknowledging this fact, Prentice stated
                    that he would yield his warmest support to the convention's nominee
                    even if he "did not approve of the decision." The editor also
                    added that each passing day proved the wisdom of the choice of Harrison because:
                        
                        The sound of his name will not, like that of Mr. 
                                Clay
                            , rally to the standard of their old party that large mass
                            of honest original supporters of General Jackson, who, disgusted with
                            the abuses that have crept into the government, are ready to unite with
                            the opposition under any leader but their old hereditary enemy [
                                Clay
                            ].22
                  
                     Prentice also urged 
                        Clay
                    's friends to support Harrison and admonished those who
                    were unwilling to do so to read the Kentuckian's letter to the national
                    convention in which he had promised to give his "cordial
                    support" to the nominee.23
            
            The Journal, with its office in 
                        Louisville
                    , was in a strategic location to promote the campaign of the Whig
                    candidate in 1840. A rapidly growing industrial community, 
                        Louisville
                     had expanded its commercial interests as a result of the numerous
                    steamboats that plied the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi Rivers. It boasted of enjoying
                    the most extensive economic enterprise of any city of comparable size in the
                        world.24 One of the best lighted cities in America, its
                    formerly dark and dangerous streets now brilliantly illuminated by gas lights, 
                        Louisville
                     attracted hundreds of travelers who, inadvertently or consciously,
                    helped promote the Journal's fame.25 The daily 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., December 16, 1839.
                  
                     21 Edward Stanwood, A History of the
                                Presidency from 1788 to 1897 (
                                Boston
                            , 1898), 193; E. Malcolm Carroll, Origins of
                                the Whig Party (Durham, 1925), 220; Cole, Whig
                                Party in the South, 57; Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , 311, 317.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 11, 1840.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., January 12, 1840.
                  
                     24 Ben Casseday, The History of 
                                    Louisville
                                , from Its Earliest Settlement til the Year 1852 (
                                Louisville
                            , 1852), 201. Sir Charles Lyell, who visited the city in
                            1846, spoke of 
                                Louisville
                             as a "noble sight for a great commercial
                            town." Sir Charles Lyell, A Second Visit to the 
                                    United States
                                 of North America (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1849), II, 210.
                  
                     25 Casseday, History of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                     , 201. Lady Emmeline Stuart Worthley, Travels in the 
                                    United States
                                 During 1849 and 1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1855), 93.
               
                     traffic of the steamboats, moreover,
                    enabled the Journal to reach the South and Southwest promptly.
            Immediately after Harrison's nomination and throughout the month of
                    January, Prentice supported the Whig candidate with enthusiasm. He described
                    Harrison as a man of integrity who could be trusted to introduce economy into
                    the administration of public affairs. The editor emphasized that the
                    "honest and gallant old farmer and hero" of North Bend had
                    pledged himself not to be a candidate for a second term; thus, without a motive
                    for abusing his power or patronage he should work to reform the evils under
                    which the American people had suffered for years. Prentice promised to dedicate
                    all his powers to the interest of the "cause of the Whigs and the
                        Constitution."26
            
            Personally disappointed because Harrison had won the nomination, 
                        Clay
                     nonetheless recognized that the convention's choice was
                    final. He wrote his son, "I have publicly and privately expressed my
                    determination to abide by and support the nomination." He likewise
                    assured his acquaintances of his intention to support the Whig candidate.27 On January 15, in a letter to 
                        Clay
                    , Harrison expressed his gratitude for the Kentuckian's
                    "magnanimity" and requested "any advice or
                    suggestions" the senator could offer.28 Early in
                    1840 
                        Clay
                     wrote of the "favorable" and
                    "encouraging" prospects for the election of the general.29 Although he continued to believe that
                    "intrigues" were associated with Harrison's
                    nomination, 
                        Clay
                     preferred the general over 
                        Van
                     Buren. "With Harrison," he wrote, "there
                    is hope, much hope, with 
                        Van
                     Buren there is no hope whatever."30 By
                    midsummer 
                        Clay
                     predicted the certainty of a Whig victory, saying that 
                        Van
                     Buren would carry only six states.31
            
            
               
                  26
                        
                            Louisville
                        
                        Daily Journal, January 14, 1840.
               
                  27
                        
                            Clay
                         to Henry 
                            Clay
                        , Jr., December 15, 1839, Henry 
                            Clay
                         Memorial Foundation; 
                            Clay
                         to John Strode Barbour, December 14, 1839, 
                            Clay
                         Papers; 
                            Clay
                         to Harrison Gray Otis, December 19, 1839, ibid.
               
               
                  28 William Henry Harrison to 
                            Clay
                        , January 15, 1840, 
                            Clay
                         Papers.
               
                  29
                        
                            Clay
                         to Henry 
                            Clay
                        , Jr., February 22, 1840, Henry 
                            Clay
                         Memorial Foundation; 
                            Clay
                         to James Erwin, January 10, 1840, 
                            Clay
                         Papers; 
                            Clay
                         to Alexander Miller, April 4, 1840, ibid.
               
                  30
                        
                            Clay
                         to William Browne, July 31, 1840, 
                            Clay
                         Papers.
               
                  31
                        
                            Clay
                         to M. Shaw, July 29, 1840, ibid.; 
                            Clay
                         to Francis T. Brooke, July 28, 1840, ibid.; 
                            Clay
                         to R. C. Winthrop, September 1, 1840, ibid.; 
                            Clay
                         to Henry Henson, September 5, 1840, ibid.; 
                            Clay
                         to Joseph Gales, Jr., September 27, 1840, ibid.
               
            
            
            The Whigs regarded a victory in 1840 as essential to the survival of the party. A
                    correspondent for the 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Republican inadvertently helped their campaign when he
                    suggested that if Harrison were given a barrel of hard cider and a pension, he
                    would spend the "remainder of his days in his log cabin by the side of
                    a 'sea coal’ fire, and study moral philosophy."32 Thomas Elder, a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     banker, and Richard S. Elliott, a 
                        Harrisburg
                     editor, capitalized on the reporter's statement and built
                    a transparency featuring Harrison's log cabin, complete with a coonskin
                    nailed to the wall and a woodpile with a barrel of cider nearby.33 The Whigs immediately embraced the plebian symbols: the log cabin,
                    hard cider, and coonskin cap became the emblems of a party destined for victory.
                    Huge log cabins with barrels of hard cider nearby were erected in cities and
                    towns across the country. Smaller cabins were constructed on wagons and carts
                    and pulled in the great torchlight processions and parades of the enthusiastic
                    Whigs. Pictures and cartoons of Harrison at the door of a log cabin home and
                    transparencies depicting similar scenes were a part of every great procession.
            The Journal reveals that in 1840 the Whigs of 
                        Louisville
                     adopted many of the festivities and campaign techniques used
                    elsewhere by party members. The Young Whigs of 
                        Louisville
                     were organized, and ward committees were appointed. In mid-May a
                    full day was devoted to the erection of a log cabin near Horn's Coffee
                    House which became the site of all future Whig meetings. A great barbecue for
                    party members from 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana, held at Harrod's Creek on May 28, was a
                    success despite the torrential rain which soaked the field with mud and water.
                    More than 8,000 people attended the celebration and partook of the 40 beeves, 50
                    sheep, 120 hams, and more than 100 barrels of cider that were served.34
            
            Although in 1840 Whig newspapers across America devoted their columns to
                    cartoons, poems, and songs designed to emphasize rhyme rather than reason, the
                        Journal experienced one of the most uninteresting years of
                    its existence. Prentice wrote only fifteen or twenty full-column editorials
                    during the entire campaign. Each day he printed two or three 
                  
                     32 Robert Gray Gunderson, The
                                Log-Cabin Campaign (
                                Lexington
                            , 1957), 74; Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , 320-21.
                  
                     33 Gunderson, Log-Cabin
                            Campaign, 75-76.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 28, May 13, 28, July 4,
                            October 20, 1840.
               
                     columns composed of five and six line
                    paragraphs mentioning events related to the Whigs in various parts of America.
                    Usually these paragraphs emphasized incidents denoting success for the party.
                    Prentice was striving for a psychological effect: if you want to be on the
                    bandwagon with the victors, support the Whigs. The editor sometimes revealed his
                    wit and humor as he sought to convey deeper political concepts. One such
                    paragraph read: " ‘Come boys', said General
                    Harrison to his army of 2000, ‘let's take 
                        Detroit
                    ’. It was taken. ‘Come boys', said
                    Mr. 
                        Van
                     Buren to his army of 40,000, ‘let's take the
                    revenue’. It was taken."35 Nevertheless, the Journal refrained from printing a
                    campaign slogan or cartoon; and the seven-verse "Log Cabin
                    Song" and "Mr. 
                        Van
                     Buren's Farewell to the Palace" were the only
                    campaign poems to appear in the Journal.36
            
            The Journal editorial style in 1840 probably resulted from a
                    combination of circumstances. Despite his commitment to support the candidate of
                    the national convention, Prentice was doubtless personally disappointed that his
                    friend 
                        Clay
                     had not received the honor. He may also have disliked using the
                    "rhyme without reason" tactics of his fellow editors; and
                    since the convention had failed to adopt a platform, he had no
                    "specific" program to defend. Prentice probably concentrated
                    on brief editorial paragraphs rather than lengthy articles as the medium which
                    best represented his own talent and as the best possible course under the
                    circumstances.
            In their effort to win the election, the Whigs throughout the country sought the
                    vote of various minority groups.37 The Journal, likewise, appealed directly to people of German origin and to
                    those of Roman Catholic faith. Repeated announcements of political meetings for
                    the Germans indicated that Whig candidates would address the group and, in many
                    cases, that speeches would be delivered in both English and German.38 Prentice also defended a 
                        Jefferson County
                     court resolution which required more exhaustive information from
                    naturalized citizens who desired to vote. He explained that the objective was to
                    procure sufficient evidence so that all those eligible were guaranteed the right
                    to vote.39 In an appeal to the Catholics Prentice quoted the
                        Catholic Miscellany, 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., July 8, 1840.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., September 14, October 2, 1840.
                  
                     37 Gunderson, Log-Cabin
                            Campaign, 154-55.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 29, July 1, 28, 1840.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., July 9, 14, 1840.
               
                     which publication contended that 
                        Van
                     Buren had attempted in 1834 to exclude the group from the 
                        New York
                     legislature. The Journal's editor
                    inquired: 
                        We now ask those of you fellow-citizens, who came to America to enjoy the
                            blessings of religious toleration; what claims this man has to your
                            support… . Thank God, religious toleration is a part of our
                            glorious system in despite of [sic] such men as Martin 
                                Van
                             Burem.40
                  
                    
            
            On the eve of the August election in 
                        Kentucky
                     the Journal carried some of the most militant editorial paragraphs
                    ever to appear in its columns. After admonishing all Kentuckians to vote,
                    Prentice exhorted: 
                        On Monday morning next, at earliest dawn, let your camps be in motion.
                            Let your columns march up with the serried strength of a Macedonian
                            Phalanx. The militia of 
                                Kentucky
                             are among the foremost of the Harrison forces in the 
                                Van
                             of the army. If you do your duty, the victory can be won at
                            the first onset.41
                  
                     On the first day of the state election he proclaimed, "Look
                    here, fellow Whigs! If you eat your dinner to-day before depositing your vote,
                    may your beef and potatoes set like fifty nightmares upon your
                        stomach!"42 On the third and final morning of
                    the balloting the Journal sent forth this editorial charge: "To the
                    polls—to the polls—ye Whigs of '40. Let this year
                    be as memorable in after ages as the year that rescued you from foreign tryant
                        [sic]. Onward! Onward! ONWARD!"43
            
            After 
                        Kentucky
                     gave a tremendous victory to the Whigs in the state election,
                    Prentice reminded his readers what a Whig vote in the presidential election
                    would mean: one presidential term, restoration of the federal government to its
                    legitimate objects, and restoration of power to the people.44 As the returns from state elections across the country revealed a
                    rising tide of Whig victories, the Journal predicted one thing
                    as certain: "Mr. 
                        Van
                     Buren will be worse beaten in November next than any candidate for
                    the presidency ever has been since the birth of the Republic."45 Predictions 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid.., October 26, 1840.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., July 28, 1840.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., August 1, 1840. Prior to 1850 the polls in 
                                Kentucky
                             were open for three days for the election of both state and
                            national officials. Candidates for offices in the state government and
                            for 
                                United States
                             representatives were elected in August; the presidential
                            election was held in November.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 3, 1840.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., August 11, 1840.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., September 26, 1840.
               
                     of the extinction of the Locofoco race were
                    accompanied by the suggestion that "a specimen ought to be preserved in
                    gin for the gratification of the curiosity of future generation."46
            
            As the federal election drew near, Prentice wrote with more enthusiasm. Confident
                    of victory, he urged his fellow Whigs to "march up to the ballot-box as
                    Old Tip and his soldiers used to march to their country's battle
                        fields."47 Victory was in the air on the final
                    day of balloting in 
                        Louisville
                    . Harrison had received 2,220 votes; only 985 were cast for 
                        Van
                     Buren. On Wednesday night aftre the polls closed, ten thousand
                    Whigs assembled in 
                        Louisville
                     for a great demonstration. Marching through the streets with bands,
                    banners, transparencies, and cannons, they stopped in front of the Galt House
                    Hotel, the 
                        Louisville
                     Hotel, and the homes of several individuals. Prentice, elated
                    because the throng halted in front of his home, referred to the incident as
                    "a mark of regard never to be forgotten … we were more than
                    rewarded for all our toils."48
            
            Although Prentice had supported the Whig ticket, he had shown little enthusiasm
                    for Harrison after the early weeks of January. Despite the Journal's apathy, the Whig vote in 
                        Kentucky
                     was never again to exceed that of 1840.49 The
                    old general had received 64.2 per cent of the state's vote, which fact
                    won for 
                        Kentucky
                     the title of "banner state of the nation." The
                    bulk of Harrison's vote had come from the eastern hill country, the
                    Penny-royal, and the inner and outer Bluegrass.50 It appears
                    that the Journal may have had little, if any, influence on the outcome of the
                    election in 
                        Kentucky
                    . According to one author, "General Harrison's
                    personal appeal to an electorate where fighting was still a chief sport and
                    where the frontier lingered in the memory if not in fact, coupled with the
                    predilection for Whig party loyalty brought 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., September 30, 1840. The name Loeofoco
                            originated in a meeting of the Democratic party at Tammany Hall on
                            October 29, 1835. In a protest meeting the regular members adjourned and
                            turned out the gas lights. Members of the radical wing of the party
                            remained and conducted their meeting by the light of candles which had
                            been lighted with the new self-igniting matches known as locofocos.
                            Prentice used the name exclusively when referring to the Democratic
                            party.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, October 26, 1840.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., November 7, 1840.
                  
                     49 Ruth McQuown and 
                                Jasper
                             B. Shannon, Presidential Politics in 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 1824-1948 (
                                Lexington
                            , 1950), 13.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Bourbon County
                             gave 74 per cent of her vote to Harrison. Two other
                            Bluegrass counties that gave unusual percentages to Harrison were
                                    
                        Fayette, Clay
                     's home county,
                            with 70.7 per cent and Clark with 83.4 per cent. Ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                     closer to party unanimity than it had known since 1824 or was to
                    know again until the Civil War."51
            
            President-elect Harrison made plans to visit 
                        Kentucky
                     after the election. On November 2 he wrote 
                        Clay
                    , 
                  
                     
                        "I have a long account to settle with C. Wickliffe and
                                    about thursday or friday [sic] next will set
                                    out via 
                                        Louisville
                                     for 
                                        Frankfort
                                    . I will write you from one of those places so that
                                    you can meet me at the latter."
                     
                  
                Referring to this letter, 
                        Clay
                     assured Robert P. Letcher of 
                        Frankfort
                     that when he learned of Harrison's arrival in the capital
                    city he would go down to meet him. Expressing the hope that Letcher would be at
                    home to meet Harrison, 
                        Clay
                     urged him to mention the contemplated visit to no one except John
                    J. Crittenden.52 Appreciating 
                        Clay
                    's desire to retain the leadership of the Whigs, especially
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Harrison wrote 
                        Clay
                     another letter on November 15. Now fearful that a
                    "personal meeting might give rise to speculations and even jealousies
                    which it might be well to avoid," Harrison urged 
                        Clay
                     to send a friend to 
                        Frankfort
                     to communicate with him.53
            
            Upon the president-elect's arrival in 
                        Kentucky
                     on November 17, citizens of 
                        Louisville
                     were joined by people from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, in a spectacular celebration. Thousands paraded the
                    streets past lighted windows decorated with transparencies, mottos, and wreaths
                    of flowers, while other thousands gazed in amazement at the spectacle. The Journal compared the people's excitement with that of
                    the poor cripple in the Scriptures who leaped for joy when restored by the
                    Savior. Prentice inquired, "Why should not we shout and rejoice, when,
                    our country, through the providence of God, is raised up from the deadliest
                    paralysis that ever fell upon a Republic?"54
            
            The Journal otherwise gave little attention to the 
                        Kentucky
                     visit of the president-elect. Harrison's speech at
                            
                  Versailles, Kentucky
               , in which he gave a
                    toast to 
                        Clay
                    , was doubtless over emphasized by Prentice. The old general was
                    credited with having said that he considered 
                        Clay
                     "the fittest 
                  
                            51
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     52
                            
                                Clay
                             to Robert P. Letcher, November 4, 1840, 
                                Clay
                             Papers. 
                                Clay
                             quotes Harrison's letter. See George Rawlings
                            Poage, Henry 
                                    Clay
                                 and the Whig Party (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1936), 15-17; and Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , 329. Both authors reveal that they were unaware
                            that 
                                Clay
                             received the Harrison letter dated November 2.
                  
                     53 William Henry Harrison to 
                                Clay
                            , November 15, 1840, 
                                Clay
                             Papers.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Louisville
                             Daily Journal, November 19, 1840.
               
                     man in the nation for the
                    Presidency," and that he would "resign the office at once, on
                    his arrival at 
                        Washington
                    , were it possible for him, by so doing to confer it on the
                    distinguished Kentuckian."55
            
            Although the president-elect wished to avoid a personal consultation with 
                        Clay
                    , the senator was unwilling to be denied such an advantage when he
                    knew that his staunchest political enemies, the Wickliffes of 
                        Bardstown
                    , anticipated a conference with Harrison. Consequently both 
                        Clay
                     and a committee of Lexingtonians met the president-elect in 
                        Frankfort
                     and urged him to visit 
                        Lexington
                    .56 Harrison accepted the invitation and was
                    still in that city when 
                        Clay
                     left for 
                        Washington
                     to resume his duties as 
                        United States
                     senator.57
            
            While Harrison visited and dined at Ashland, he was informed of 
                        Clay
                    's desire to remain in the Senate, where he wished to
                    retain the leadership of the Whigs in Congress, rather than to become a member
                    of the president's Cabinet.58 Anxious to avoid any
                    evidence that he was seeking to dominate the administration, 
                        Clay
                     nonetheless reminded the presidentelect that he believed no Whig
                    president should ignore Daniel Webster.59 During their
                    conversation Harrison made no commitments to 
                        Clay
                     and gave no hint of his choices for the Cabinet.60
                    
                        Clay
                    's later request for an appointment for John Marshall
                    Clayton was ignored.61
            
            The final choices for the Harrison Cabinet were Daniel Webster, secretary of
                    state; John J. Crittenden, attorney general; Thomas Ewing, secretary of the
                    treasury; John Bell, secretary of war; Francis Granger, postmaster general; and
                    George E. Badger, secretary of the navy.62 The Journal gave
                    its enthusiastic approval to the choices and singled out Webster as a man who
                    possessed more intellectual power than 
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., December 2, 1840.
                  
                     56 Poage, Henry 
                                    Clay
                                 and the Whig Party, 16-17.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, December 8, 1840, 
                                Clay
                             Papers; 
                                Clay
                             to Francis T. Brooke, December 8, 1840, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58
                            
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, December 8, 1840, ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to Francis T. Brooke, December 8, 1840, ibid.
                  
                  
                     59
                            
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, December 8, 1840, February 7, 1841,
                            ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to Francis T. Brooke, December 8, 1840, ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to William Henry Harrison, March 15, 1841, ibid.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Clay
                             to Francis T. Brooke, December 8, 1840, ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to Peter Buel Porter, December 8, 1840, ibid.; 
                                Clay
                             to James T. Austin, December 10, 1840, ibid.
                  
                  
                     61
                            
                                Clay
                             to John Marshall Clayton, December 29, 1840, January 17,
                            February 12, 1841, ibid.
                  
                  
                     62 Poage, Henry 
                                    Clay
                                 and the Whig Party, 19; Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , 330, 333; Kirwan, John J.
                            Crittenden, 138; Goebel, William Henry Harrison,
                            366.
               
                     the whole 
                        Van
                     Buren Cabinet.63 "The old
                    hero's selection of six such men to aid him in the administration of
                    the government shows that the confidence reposed in him by the American people
                    has not been misplaced," Prentice wrote. "His designated
                    cabinet is abler than that of any one of his predecessors from 
                        Washington
                     down."64 Thus the Journal appeared to approve of the Harrison administration.
            Upon his arrival in 
                        Washington
                     in December, 1840, 
                        Clay
                     determined to assume a position of leadership in the Whig party.
                    Shortly after the inauguration, however, the senator discovered that his
                    greatest difficulty in leading the party was his inability to lead the
                    president. When 
                        Clay
                     attempted to persuade Harrison to call an extra session of
                    Congress, he was reprimanded by the chief executive who wrote, 
                  
                     
                        "you are too impetuous, much as I rely upon your
                                    judgment there are others whom I must consult…
                                        .‘"65
                        
                     
                  
                Already preparing to leave the capital and unable to arrange a private
                    conference with the president, 
                        Clay
                     replied to Harrison in a letter marked "Private and
                    Confidential." He declared, 
                  
                     
                        "I was mortified by the suggestion you made to me on
                                    saturday [sic], that I had been represented as
                                    dictating to you or to the new administration-mortified, because
                                    it is unfounded in fact, and because there is danger of the
                                    fears, that I intimated to you at 
                                        Frankfort
                                    , of my enemies poisoning your mind towards
                                        me."66
                        
                     
                  
                Despite 
                        Clay
                    's concern the old president had refused to allow the
                    Kentuckian to dominate his administration.
            
               
                        Clay
                     was already in 
                        Lexington
                     when Harrison died on April 4. Five days later the Journal, edged in black, printed one brief paragraph to announce the
                    death of the president of the 
                        United States
                    . The following morning Prentice printed three short paragraphs in
                    which he commented upon Harrison's last words. In conclusion, he wrote,
                    "The principles of the Government will be remembered; the vice
                    president, the Harrison Cabinet, and the new Congress will carry out his
                    patriotic views; and our beloved country will yet be restored to its true
                        principles."67 The editor of the Journal had no
                    eulogy for the president; possibly he had been offended by Harrison's
                    refusal to receive the advice of 
                        Clay
                    .
            
               
                  63
                        
                            Louisville
                         Daily Journal, January 1, 1841.
               
                  64 Ibid., February 23, 1841.
               
                  65 William Henry Harrison to 
                            Clay
                        , March 13, 1841, 
                            Clay
                         Papers. See also Cleaves, Old 
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                  , 339-40.
               
                  66
                        
                            Clay
                         to William Henry Harrison, March 15, 1841, 
                            Clay
                         Papers.
               
                  67
                        
                            Louisville
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 10, 1841.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Paul V. McNutt: Portrait of a Hoosier Statesman. By I.
                    George Blake. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Central Publishing Company, Inc., 1966. Pp. xv, 399.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $5.95.)
            Using the available collections of source materials and interviewing numerous
                    political insiders of the 1930's and 1940's, most of all Frank
                    M. McHale, Blake has written a most readable biography of Paul V. McNutt. The
                    volume covers McNutt's career as Indiana University law school dean; as
                    state and national commander of the American Legion; as Indiana's
                    governor from 1933 to 1937; as Philippine high commissioner from 1937 to 1939
                    and again from 1945 to 1947, during the Philippine transition from commonwealth
                    to national independence; as head of the Federal Security Agency from 1939 to
                    1945; and as director of the Office of Community War Services and as chairman of
                    the important War Manpower Commission during World War II. McNutt emerges,
                    truthfully, as one of the ablest of the wartime administrators, along with Harry
                    Hopkins, James F. Byrnes, and Donald M. Nelson.
            This biography is distinctly favorable to McNutt without being downright
                    eulogistic. Somewhat reminiscent of nineteenth-century biographies, it gives
                    copious quotations from letters to McNutt and editorial comment about him.
                    Curiously enough, unlike the old style biographies, there are relatively few
                    quotations from the letters and speeches of McNutt himself.
            McNutt's story is essentially one of frustration. With all his ability,
                    administrative competence, oratory, good looks, charisma (to a degree), and
                    "availabilty," McNutt never achieved the opportunity he craved
                    to be nominated for president or vice president. The giant figure of 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt forever stood in his way. Roosevelt used
                    McNutt's administrative abilities, but he played a cat-and-mouse game
                    with him and boxed him in politically. New Deal insiders suspected that McNutt
                    was not a "real" liberal, and Roosevelt and James A. Farley
                    never forgave the Hoosier's failure to support FDR at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention of 1932.
            The author devotes too little attention to this convention, for it was the
                    turning point in McNutt's career. On the other hand, he devotes too
                    much attention to McNutt's presidential candidacy in 1940 and to his
                    dramatic withdrawal from the vice-presidential race at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention that year, for these activities constituted mere tour de
                    force. Because Roosevelt and his cohorts dominated the situation in 1940, McNutt
                    stood no chance of either the presidential or vice-presidential nomination,
                    whether Roosevelt ran for a third term or not. Blake implicitly provides the
                    evidence for this conclusion, but he shrinks from making it explicit.
            McNutt and his advisers, in 1932 and 1940, were victims of Indiana's
                    political mores, which, for a variety of reasons deeply rooted in
                    Indiana's history, exaggerated sheer political organization and
                    maneuver and underestimated national opinion and the mass media. There is irony
                    here. The very year that saw the collapse of McNutt's presidential and
                    vice-presidential "booms" also saw Wendell Willkie, another
                         Hoosier, win the Republican
                    presidential nomination by turning his back on Indiana political traditions, the
                    old-fashioned ways in politics, and exploiting the new ways of the mass media.
            Although McNutt matured with time and experience, impressions of the earlier man
                    persisted. He was thought to be the perennial
                    "big-man-on-campus" type, one who gathered honors as mere
                    personal trophies. As late as 1930 admirers were writing him that they were
                    confident he would become a "Big Shot." A widespread belief
                    that McNutt at bottom was a chauvinist and a jingo would not down. McNutt rarely
                    espoused an unpopular cause or flew in the face of conventional wisdom. This is
                    not unusual in politicians, but it is unusual in politicians of
                    McNutt's intelligence, whether they be liberals or conservatives.
            A close reading of this biography reveals that McNutt was not as cold or as
                    arrogant a person as many supposed. Nevertheless, it is a pity that a man of his
                    large gifts was so bereft, at least in his public "image," of
                    the humility and compassion of a John Worth Kern, of the folksy and salty wit of
                    a Thomas Riley Marshall, of the impish maverick qualities of a Wendell Willkie.
            
                    University of 
                            Florida
                        
               
                
            William G. Carleton
         
         
            
               The Grain Trade in the Old Northwest. By John G. Clark. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xi, 324. Notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Some of the most provocative recent economic history has been in the areas of
                    transportation and land resources. The Grain Trade in the Old Northwest
                    represents a contribution to this growing historiography. John Clark
                    exhaustively examines the fluctuating grain market for the antebellum period in
                    the Old Northwest. He traces the shift from the dominance of the
                        Mississippi River system, 
                        New Orleans
                    , and the southern markets to the East-West axis with the evolution
                    of canals and railroads.
            In contrast to the conclusions of Harry Scheiber and others, Clark believes that
                    the early railroad development in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana gave these states a competitive marketing advantage
                    over 
                        Ohio
                    . Though Clark abstains from specifically challenging the
                    econometricians (nowhere is there evidence in his bibliography that he utilized
                    the studies of Robert Fogel and other practioners of econometrics), his findings
                    are in direct antithesis to theirs. According to Clark, the railroads, instead
                    of producing a drain on the economy, "provided the essential catalytic
                    action for growth" (p. 264). In agreement with Scheiber's
                    incisive study of internal improvements in 
                        Ohio
                    , Clark argues that the railroads had a revolutionary economic
                    impact, although he refines Scheiber's conclusions by suggesting that
                    the "lake route continued to dominate" through the
                    1880's (p. 287).
            In some respects this is a model monograph, thoroughly researched, systematically
                    organized, and tightly written; Clark has rigidly defined his subject. At times
                    the reader feels that his narrative is the direct transposition of line graphs
                    to words. Most readers who have  labored in
                    antebellum agriculture and internal improvements will have empathy for the
                    author's strict adherence to the confines of his research boundaries.
                    Just as many may wonder if Clark's study would not have been enhanced
                    by including more information on land use patterns, state economic policy, and
                    altering shifts in demography.
            
                    University of Wyoming
                
            Gene M. Gressley
         
         
            
               Millstone and Saw: The Origins of Neenah-Menasha. By Alice
                    E. Smith. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1966. Pp. viii, 208. Notes, map, illustrations, tables, sources,
                    index. $5.50.)
            This scholarly work is the first of two volumes on the history of Neenah and
                    Menasha, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , projected by the Urban History Section of the State Historical
                    Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . These two cities, so closely united that 
                        Wisconsin
                     people refer to them as one community, Neenah-Menasha, lie on both
                    sides of the two channels through which Lake Winnebago
                    enters into the north-flowing Fox River.
            Beginning with the founding of the villages in the 1840's, the author
                    traces their growth to the time when each was incorporated: Neenah in 1873,
                    Menasha in 1874. Within these chronological boundaries the author recounts the
                    struggle for internal waterway improvements, roads, railroads, and lake
                    transportation; the fever of land speculation; the rise of mercantile
                    enterprises, industrial plants, and banking; the development of newspapers,
                    churches, schools, and urban services; the controversies over temperance and
                    slavery; the characteristics of the population; and the rivalry which prevented
                    the consolidation of the two villages.
            From frontier settlements to commercial towns and then to industrial cities,
                    Neenah and Menasha followed much the same pattern as did other cities of the
                    Middle West. During the village period their economic growth rested largely upon
                    the wheat brought from the surrounding countryside to supply the flour milling
                    industry and upon the lumber from the forests for the woodworking industry. At
                    the opening of the decade of the 1870's their famed paper industry was
                    still in the future.
            The author refutes the common assumption that the composition of the population
                    was largely foreign. Of the 1,412 residents in the two villages in 1850 only 30
                    per cent were foreign born. Sixty-one per cent of the latter came from the
                    British Isles, with the largest number coming from 
                        Ireland
                    . In 1870 the population of the two villages totaled 5,139. The
                    native born outnumbered the foreign born two to one, with the Germans as the
                    largest segment.
            The volume represents extensive research in the manuscript federal census returns
                    in the society's library, local official records, newspapers, and local
                    histories. It is well documented and includes apt illustrations, an excellent
                    bibliographic essay, and a good index. The book is a real contribution to an
                    understanding of urban development in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    Marquette University
                
            Herbert W. Rice
         
         
         
            
               The Colonial Experience: Readings in Early American History.
                    Edited by H. Trevor Colbourn. (
                        Boston
                    : Houghton Mifflin Company, 1966. Pp. xi, 419. Notes, bibliography.
                    Clothbound; paperbound, $4.50.)
            Although the colonial period of American history is receiving increasing
                    attention from interested scholars, there has been, and still is, a paucity of
                    books of readings—-collections of significant articles, essays,
                    portions of monographs, and primary materials—which may be used
                    profitably as collateral reading in courses treating this area of American
                    history. Such collections, if they are reasonably thematically integrated and
                    edited with an eye to scholarly quality, may enhance the student's
                    interest in, and understanding of, colonial history.
            Colbourn's volume is welcome not only because it meets a definite need
                    but because of its generally high quality of content, organization, and
                    editorial commentary. The book is divided into ten sections, each containing
                    several selections focusing on a significant aspect of early American history.
                    Excellent annotated bibliographies with suggestions for further reading conclude
                    each section. It is, of course, impossible to deal with every facet of the
                    colonial period in a book of this sort, but Colbourn has chosen his emphases
                    well.
            The arrangement of the sections is both chronological and topical, moving from
                    the earliest era of English exploration and colonization to the Confederation
                    period and the ratification of the Constitution. Problems of early exploration
                    and colonization; the development of colonial religion, society, and education;
                    and internal and imperial aspects of colonial politics and economics are treated
                    topically, but in a context that carries the student through the colonial period
                    to the Revolution and its aftermath.
            Especially illuminating are the sections on "Colonial Society,"
                    "The Road to Union," and "Mercantilism in Colonial
                    America." Here, Colbourn achieves an admirable balance between fresh,
                    scholarly, secondary accounts and relevant primary materials. Also useful in
                    introducing the student to internal colonial problems is the section on
                    "Insurrection and Division," which deals with Bacon's
                    Rebellion, the Paxton Boys, and the 
                        North Carolina
                     Regulators.
            If a criticism is to be made, it is perhaps that the two sections on the American
                    Revolution give no notice to the current Neo-Whig interpretation ably argued by
                    Edmund S. Morgan, Jack P. Greene, Bernard Bailyn, and others. Space limitations
                    may also have decided the relatively sparse treatment (four short essays) of the
                    Confederation and Constitution periods. This cavil, however, does not lessen the
                    importance or usefulness of Colbourn's book. It is not intended, as the
                    author states in his Preface, as a complete compendium of contemporary and
                    subsequent literature on the colonial period but as a lively, provocative
                    introduction. As such, and used wisely, The Colonial Expehence will fulfill its
                    purpose well.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University
                
            Paul C. Bowers, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               Daniel Webster and the Supreme Court. By Maurice G. Baxter.
                    ([Amherst]: The University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 1966. Pp. ix, 265. Notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $6.75.)
            Baxter's account of Daniel Webster's career as a lawyer before
                    the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     is an important contribution to an often neglected aspect of the
                    development of constitutional law. Aside from the group studies by Clyde Jacobs,
                    Benjamin Twiss, and Arnold Paul of late nineteenth-century lawyers, there has
                    been a dearth of writing concerning the impact of counsel on Supreme Court
                    decisions and doctrines. As a participant in many of the significant
                    constitutional cases before the Marshall and Taney courts, Webster is an obvious
                    focal point of interest. Baxter has examined Webster's role
                    comprehensively, and with a sophisticated awareness of the political, economic,
                    and social setting and ramifications of constitutional controversies.
            Webster's adulation of judicial power, his distrust of legislatures (how
                    paradoxical for someone who called himself a "Whig" and who
                    has been honored as one of the "six greatest senators"!), and
                    his abiding concern for the protection of property rights, summarize the working
                    principles of most of his great constitutional arguments before the Supreme
                    Court. Indeed the proper protection of property and economic
                    growth were the great issues of political economy that spilled over into the
                    courts. But it is unclear whether Webster fully appreciated that the tension was
                    minimal between those, like himself, who emphasized the stability and order to
                    be derived from a legal system and those who looked to the dynamic quality of
                    law to release creative human energy and to stimulate economic growth. The
                    latter, such as Webster's "new bridge" opponents in
                    the Charles River Bridge Case, certainly were not hostile
                    to property; the difference boiled down to which view would best encourage
                    investment—that key to the prosperity, or
                    "happiness," which so preoccupied the market-oriented
                    mentality of bustling, bourgeois America.
            Webster's was not necessarily a creative, inventive mind. It may be
                    suggested that his forte was the ability to synthesize
                    available, received doctrines and to present them in an effective, often
                    dramatic manner. He functioned in what has been labeled the
                    "lawyers' golden age of public leadership," and his
                    task was to formulate and advocate the legal sanction for certain interest
                    groups. This he did with unusual success until the
                    1830's—that is, during the chief justiceship of John
                    Marshall. After the latter's death Webster found the Taney Court less
                    receptive toward his views and, with others, lamented the passing of the
                    "old race of judges." Unlike his fictional re-creation,
                    Webster had his problems with "devils."
            In any event there is no need to dispute Baxter's well-substantiated
                    conclusions. As a participant in major constitutional and legal controversies,
                    Webster significantly contributed to the rationalization for national power and
                    labored to exalt the role of the federal judiciary within the constitutional
                    apparatus. He was relevant within his contemporary context and, in many ways,
                    even more so for the future.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               
                
            Stanley I. Kutler
         
         
         
            
               Democratic Politics and Sectionalism: The Wilmot Proviso
                        Controversy. By Chaplain W. Morrison. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 244. Notes, index. $6.00.)
            This model monograph is a thorough and dispassionate analysis of how, between
                    1846 and 1848, the slavery controversy finally broke into the center of national
                    politics. Morrison's researches on this development have gone deeper
                    than those of any previous scholar. The other notable quality of his book is its
                    sure delineation of the relationship between the emerging slavery issue and the
                    practical political necessities and impulses that influenced the actors.
            The reader is shown in detail how David Wilmot's proposal to bar slavery
                    from the anticipated Mexican cession arose from the disaffection of northern and
                    northwestern Democrats with the Polk administration on a variety of matters.
                    Once introduced, the Proviso's eventually explosive effects were
                    related to the special sensitivities of 
                        Van
                     Buren's Barnburners on the one hand and Calhoun's
                    southern following on the other.
            Having dealt convincingly with the motives and actions of the politicians,
                    Morrison ventures some intriguing explanations for the strong responses of the
                    northern and southern electorates to the agitation. The issue of slavery
                    extension was not the issue of slavery per se, he insists. But though
                    peripheral, it proved an extraordinarily effective symbolic vehicle for the
                    concerns that clustered around slavery.
            The concern that was emotionally most important, he suggests, was the same in
                    both sections: "if the desire for white supremacy was the strongest
                    emotional force behind southern opposition to the Wilmot Proviso, it seems
                    likewise to have been one of the strongest emotional forces for the movement for
                    the Proviso in the North …" (p. 69). As northerners sought
                    to protect a land of free white men from encroachment by black slaves and a
                    white slavocracy, white men in the South, moved by "the same elements
                    of racial fear and hatred," were "most afraid that they would
                    be isolated within the union, left alone with their Negro problem and their
                    slaveholding solution; thus isolated the South would become an alien and
                    inferior section, and ultimately its social system would yield to that of the
                    North, precipitating a bitter racial conflict" (p. 73). The decision to
                    secede, when it finally came in 1860, was the last desperate alternative once
                    the battle for the territories had been lost.
            
                    University of 
                            California
                        , Berkeley
                
            Charles G. Sellers
         
         
            
               Life in the North during the Civil War: A Source History. By
                    George Winston Smith and Charles Judah. ([Albuquerque]: The University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xvi, 397. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Smith and Judah have produced a lively, judicious, and well-balanced sampling of
                    northern attitudes during the tumultuous era which began with Lincoln's
                    election to the presidency and terminated 
                    with the fateful surrender at 
                        Appomattox
                    . Most of the 219 items are taken verbatim from newspaper
                    editorials, periodical articles, government documents, public addresses, private
                    correspondence, and memoirs. Though the subject matter of some excerpts is
                    predictable— complaints by army recruiters and dislocations within
                    the business community—Civil War aficionados will not find much that
                    is familiar here; the editors avoided many of the obvious sources. Followers of
                    Indiana history will find several selections of particular interest: an 1860
                    letter from a 
                        Cannelton
                     businessman describing his anguish over 
                        South Carolina
                    's secession convention, an official 1863 account of
                    Copperhead violence in 
                        Rush County
                    , and a local newspaper report of a colorful Independence Day parade
                    in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1864. Readers concerned with the quality of mass culture should
                    find much delight in an hilarious satire on the typical Civil War romantic
                    novel, selected from an 1864 issue of The Round Table.
            One of the book's nine sections (not to mention parts of others) deals
                    entirely with the Negro's problem, which is to say, the
                    white's problem. Such emphasis is only proper, for, despite all that
                    has been written about economic sectionalism, political fanaticism, and the
                    growth of a southern nationalism as causal explanations of the Civil War, the
                    situation that stirred the public conscience a century ago was the status of
                    Negroes in a white America—even as it does today.
            The editors have written a lucid opening essay and have interspersed the primary
                    material with a running commentary. These one-and two-paragraph introductions,
                    which precede each selection, are based on the most recent scholarship and are
                    happily bereft of historical sentimentalism. Occasionally one may quarrel with
                    the editors' choice of certain words and phrases. For example, they
                    admit that "the Radicals were not a cohesive group" (p. 95);
                    if so, the remark that Secretary of State Seward was "stigmatized by
                    Republican Radicals as a traitor both to his party and to his country's
                    welfare" (pp. 89-90) needs further clarification. Again, is it enough
                    to dismiss Radical opposition to Lincoln's renomination by referring to
                    the former as intriguers, grumblers, and sulkers, who, "with ill
                    grace," ultimately accepted the President's bid for a second
                    term (p. 114)? At times one wishes the editors had followed up some of their
                    vignettes. Surely the reader, after a fascinating newspaper report describing
                    racial segregation on 
                        Philadelphia
                     streetcars in 1865, is entitled to learn the outcome of the
                    subsequent Negro boycott.
            From a technical standpoint it is too bad that the layout of the book is not on a
                    par with the substance. Both the student and the scholar would have been better
                    served had the identifying footnotes to each of the reproduced items appeared at
                    the bottom of the page rather than at the end of the book. But this minor
                    reservation does not detract from the over-all quality of this source history.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Irving Katz
         
         
         
            
               The South since 
                            Appomattox
                        : A Century of Regional Change. By Thomas D. Clark and
                    Albert D. Kirwan. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. vii, 438. Maps, notes, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            Just before his tragic death in 1963, Walter Prescott Webb wrote that the South
                    long ago would have achieved a prosperity and felicity commensurate with her
                    abundant resources save for three stubborn obstacles-all legacies of an
                    unfortunate past: a congenital resistance to change, an
                    "overconcern" with the racial issue, and a sadly deficient
                    education. In Southern Tradition and Regional Progress (1960) Vanderbilt
                    economist William H. Nicholls had earlier argued that there was a demonstrably
                    inverse correlation between progressive achievement and the South's
                    abiding traditionalism. Shortly thereafter, Thomas D. Clark, a southern
                    historian at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , published his hopeful portrait of The Emerging
                    South (1961), the thesis of which was unequivocal: the South should abandon
                    its negativistic traditionalism and embrace the progressive American creed. Now
                    Clark and his colleague, Albert D. Kirwan, have published a history of the South
                    since Appromattox that is consistently imbued with this same unapologetically
                    liberal theme.
            This volume is at once a chronicle of "A Century of Regional
                    Change," a critique of its inadequacy, an affirmation of its direction,
                    and a plea for its rapid acceleration. The authors argue that although Henry
                    Grady's celebrated "New South" was largely a
                    stillborn myth in 1886, the subsequent ineluctable combination of the federal
                    government's resurgent commitment to social justice and what C. Vann
                    Woodward has called the "bulldozer revolution" had by 1965
                    worked a revolutionary and permanent transformation that southerners as
                    Americans should embrace. Clark and Kirwan have thereby directed their efforts
                    toward eroding the first of Webb's stumbling blocks, but they have
                    properly declined to respond to his admonition concerning the second obstacle.
                    Webb had invoked a Lincolnian metaphor in arguing that since the intractable
                    "stump" of the racial issue was too heavy to move and too
                    green to burn, then "the best we can do for the present is to plow
                    around it"—to "get on with the main
                    business" and "cultivate the rest of the field."
                    Instead, the authors have directly and lengthily confronted the invidious
                    consequences of the South's biracial system in expounding their
                    conviction that the southern white and Negro can progress only in concert.
            Webb's final obstacle, deficient southern education, is viewed by the
                    authors as so crucial to southern progress that they devote two of their
                    eighteen chapters to exploring its history and posing its challenge. Their
                    treatment of education, however, is exemplary of their problematical resolution
                    of the dilemma shared by all historians: how should they balance a chronological
                    treatment with a topical approach? While recent historical writing has
                    thankfully tended to avoid the worst pitfalls inherent in the arbitrary and
                    sterile legacy of "presidential history," Clark and Kirwan may
                    have strayed too far in the other direction. Only five of the chapters encompass
                    clearly  defined chronological segments. The
                    eleven topical chapters are all admirably reflective of thorough and
                    well-digested research, but each bridges the century in an organizational
                    pattern that may make the book less flexible than John Ezell's more
                    conventional The South Since 1865 (1963) to employ as a basic
                    text. Finally, the introductory chapter, the three chapters that focus on
                    biracialism, and the summary chapter on "The Evolving South"
                    endow the book with a kind of Beethovenesque coda that lends itself to
                    redundancy. Still, the message of the book is one of informed conviction briskly
                    aired. While this volume will doubtless provoke some questions as to the
                    propriety of such a reform-minded text, historians who share the
                    authors' conviction that the South should continue to shed the more
                    negative aspects of its historical legacy might hope that this book will be
                    partially instrumental in accelerating that change.
            
                    
                  
                            Stanford
                         University
                
            Hugh Davis Graham
         
         
            
               Charles Evans Hughes and the Illusions of Innocence: A Study in
                        American Diplomacy. By Betty Glad. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. 365. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.)
            The period between the two World Wars was one in which many Americans misjudged
                    the international position of the 
                        United States
                    . Our nation, we thought, was different from others, innocent of the
                    evils of world politics. Desiring to preserve this innocence—perhaps
                    more illusion than reality—we tried to defy forces of history which
                    (to paraphrase Reinhold Niebuhr) were creating a potential world community and
                    increasing the power of the 
                        United States
                     beyond that of any other nation.
            Leaders of American foreign policy in the interwar period did little to educate
                    citizens of the nation to the reality of the changing world—that the
                    free security of the 
                        United States
                     was passing. Charles Evans Hughes was no exception. As Betty Glad
                    says, "He was … a man of his times, an exemplar of the
                    thought and values of the educated class of his day" (p. 1). Miss Glad,
                    a professor of political science at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , examines the thought and policies of Hughes for an insight to the
                    sources, structure, and policy consequences of the American mind intoxicated by
                    legalistic-moralistic approaches to international problems. Her study owes much
                    to the ideas of Hans J. Morgenthau and George Kennan. She centered her research
                    in the Hughes papers, including the Beerits memoranda, plus printed government
                    documents and various publications by Hughes. Apparently Miss Glad, although
                    using the published Foreign Relations volumes, did not use
                    Department of State records in the National Archives.
            After discussing early influences on Hughes, including such 
                        Brown
                     University teachers as Ezekiel Robinson and J. Lewis Diman, who
                    emphasized moral law commanding nature and man and an evolution toward higher
                    forms of moral faculty, Miss Glad briefly traces Hughes' early career
                    and the development of his own social philosophy—a conservative
                    evolutionism fused with rationalism. It was an optimistic  philosophy which equated positive law and the mores
                    of his day with reason and justice. Hughes refused to admit that law and custom
                    might represent the stronger interests or that position, power, or chance might
                    dispense social rewards. Concluding that Hughes would neither innovate a
                    philosophy nor attempt new solutions to problems, the author then examines her
                    subject's foreign policies in light of these precepts.
            In beginning her discussion of Hughes' diplomacy, Miss Glad lays down a
                    yardstick to measure the statesman. Here emphasis is on the relationship of
                    policy to power: "If diplomacy is to accomplish its major task
                    … the diplomats must comprehend power realities which lie behind and
                    structure their discussions" (p. 130). Miss Glad then predicts that
                    Hughes will have difficulties along this line, and, in her examination, he does.
                    Like most Americans, Hughes failed to assume real interest in the European or
                    Far Eastern status quo and showed no willingness to use American power to
                    maintain it. In the Tacna-Arica dispute the secretary was too legalistic,
                    neglecting the political issue; other attempts for international conciliation
                    and arbitration often failed because he did not understand that national
                    interest depends on power as well as need. In Latin American policies Hughes was
                    generally successful because his country's interests were geared to its
                    power, but since he was dealing with such unequal neighbors he never fully
                    understood why the 
                        United States
                     never had to resort to political alliances or threaten a major war.
                    The author's evaluation of the 
                        Washington
                     Conference (1921-1922) hits hard at this theme. "States
                    will not in the long run be restrained by either their own promises or abstract
                    principles when they can secure goals they consider important with a relatively
                    cheap expenditure of their military, economic, or political resources. They will
                    be deterred only by the knowledge that they would run serious risks if they
                    should attempt to overthrow the status quo" (p. 302).
            Much that the author presents is not new. Others have outlined her general theme;
                    her narrative of American foreign policy has been told elsewhere. Nonetheless,
                    her particular analysis of Hughes is a contribution to understanding American
                    diplomacy in the interwar period.
            
                    North Texas State University
                
            William Kamman
         
         
            
               Teaching the New Social Studies in Secondary Schools: An
                        Inductive Approach. By Edwin 
                        Fenton
                    . (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1966. Pp. xvii, 526.
                    Illustrations, notes, tables, figures, index. $7.95.)
            In the wake of restructured educational approaches to the "new
                    math" and the "new sciences," the 
                        United States
                     Office of Education has turned to the social studies, i.e., history
                    and the social sciences. In 1963 it contracted with seven universities for the
                    establishment of centers where groups of scholars, teachers, and curriculum
                    specialists were encouraged to undertake jointly one or more of the following
                         tasks: redefine goals for the social
                    studies, develop materials and methods needed to realize these goals,
                    disseminate the most promising results of their projects.
            Although the number of such projects has since increased, few, if any, results
                    are ready for implementation except on an experimental basis. It is not too
                    early, however, to see that a "new social studies" is on the
                    horizon and that it will succeed or fail depending on the teachers'
                    ability to cope with it.
            What are the implications of these projects? According to 
                        Fenton
                    , "It will involve three clusters of objectives: attitudes
                    and values, the use of a mode of inquiry involving the development and
                    validation of hypotheses, and a variety of knowledge objectives… . A
                    range of objectives requires a range of teaching strategies" (p. v). In
                    part teachers will be expected to involve students in the development of
                    analytical questions to guide their search for data. They will aid students in
                    the use of this data to formulate, validate, revise, or reject hypotheses. Such
                    questions as, who were the leaders of a certain revolution, will no longer be as
                    important as, what are the attributes of revolutionary leaders? The memorization
                    of a set of scholarly conclusions will be secondary to the development of the
                    students' ability to conclude validly.
            Based on the presupposition that, "Most students learn to teach by
                    imitating their teachers" (p. 2), 
                        Fenton
                     doubts that instructors who have been exposed exclusively to the
                    traditional expository method of instruction in their own background can reverse
                    field and teach history by an inductive approach. He concludes that,
                    "students who will in the future be expected to rely primarily on
                    inductive teaching techniques should be taught inductively" (p. vii).
            The volume asks three persistent questions: Why should we teach social studies?
                    How should we teach social studies? What should we teach in the social studies?
                    The text includes significant writings in which these questions are explored by
                    such widely cited thinkers and innovators as Jerome Bruner, John Dewey, Ruth
                    Benedict, Donald Oliver, and Byron Massialas.
            In addition, the book is unique in its inclusion of a quantity of illustrative
                    materials developed or selected by the new projects for the purposes of
                    inductive teaching. These materials range from sources as divergent as The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini, Hidy and
                    Cawein's Casebook in Business History and Economic
                        Concepts for Use in Secondary Schools, and a transcription of high
                    school students working with a 
                        Fenton
                     unit in World History on classification of information as a
                    function of the frame of reference.
            
               Teaching the New Social Studies is far from the traditional
                    text for methods courses, but it is more than a book of readings. It is a
                    do-it-yourself kit which invites the pre-service or in-service teacher to mold
                    his own learning in much the same manner he would aid his students in molding
                    theirs. Although it is intended for high school teachers, there is something
                    here for anyone concerned with the role of history and the social sciences in
                    education. Even if it were not the only book of this kind, it might still have
                    been the best.
            
                    University of 
                     Missouri, St.
                        Louis
                  
               
                
            Elizabeth P. Watson
         
         
         
            
               Economic Development and American Foreign Policy, 1943-62.
                    By David A. Baldwin. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. viii, 291. Notes, figures, tables, selected
                    bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            The present study treats only a fragment of the large subject enunciated in the
                    book's title. It considers the process which by 1962 had brought about
                    the acceptance of the soft loan as a device for transferring American capital to
                    underdeveloped economies. The manner in which this occurred is cause for
                    inquiry. It seems doubtful whether, from the standpoint of rigorous economic
                    theory, the soft loan can readily be defended, standing, as it does, between
                    orthodox finance on the one hand and the outright grant on the other. The first
                    alternative is available only if the 
                        United States
                     were to liberalize its tariff policy; but this, though it would
                    help debtor nations to earn dollars in the American market, Congress has not
                    been willing to do in a decisive way. On the other hand, neither has Congress
                    been willing to countenance the outright granting of money on a large scale.
            The administration has been faced with these congressional attitudes. It has also
                    been confronted, particularly in the United Nations, with the insistent demand
                    of the poorer nations for financial assistance. The upshot of this situation,
                    fraught with dilemma, is the soft loan. The latter may take the form of surplus
                    agricultural products, or it may consist of actual money. In both cases
                    repayment is in the form of inconvertible currency. Since such currency has very
                    limited utility for the 
                        United States
                    , a transaction of this kind is a mere facade for what is in fact, a
                    grant. It results—to repeat—from the endeavor of the
                    policy maker to accommodate the various political forces playing upon him.
            The impression that emerges most strongly from Baldwin's study is that
                    an international agency, above all the World Bank, is in the strongest position
                    to influence the receiving governments, forcing upon them the policies, often
                    unpalatable, most likely to promote economic development. The present reviewer
                    found particularly interesting the author's treatment of the World
                    Bank's "strategy of non-lending." This is simply to
                    say that inasmuch as the bank has something to offer which is badly wanted, the
                    bank is in a position to withhold its largess unless the borrower conforms to
                    specified conditions. To be sure, the bank has itself finally acquiesced in the
                    soft loan, administered through its affiliate, the International Development
                    Association. But loans made by the I.D.A. are to be repaid in convertible
                    currency, even though the terms are otherwise generous. Thus political
                    considerations, which have played hob with the foreign aid purveyed by the 
                        United States
                     bilaterally, are more manageable in the context of the World Bank,
                    insulated from the importunities of the borrower by virtue of the voting formula
                    in its Executive Board and having access to capital without the necessity of
                    seeking annual appropriations from a legislative body.
            So it seems to this reviewer, who is curious to know whether the author would
                    agree with this conclusion. Baldwin, who shows a fine analytical capacity, will
                    perhaps in the future, as he pursues his larger objective, feel free to make
                    judgments of this nature.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Edward H. Buehrig
         
         
         
            
               The Sinews of War: Army Logistics, 1775-1953. By James A.
                    Huston. Army Historical Series. (
                        Washington
                    : Office of the Chief of Military History, 
                        United States
                     Army, 1966. Pp. xxiii, 789. Notes, illustrations, maps, figures,
                    appendix, bibliography, index. $5.75.)
            Logistics is the "economics of warfare… . It provides the
                    substance that physically permits an army to ‘live and move
                    …’ " (p. viii). While it lacks the glamor of the
                    planning of grand strategy or of the execution of tactical operations, it is as
                    crucial in warfare as either. In The Sinews of War James A.
                    Huston of Purdue University describes in detail and analyzes the role of
                    logistics in the history of the army from 1775 to 1953.
            Here is the other side of the customary military history. The bloody footprints
                    at Valley Forge are familiar to every schoolboy, but that the clothing and food
                    shortages were, in part, the results of the breakdown of the transportation
                    system is not. Almost two centuries later the beginning of the Cold War would be
                    a matter of controversy. Details of the logistical situation of the American
                    forces in Europe in the late 1940's indicate clearly that the mission
                    of these troops was simply occupation duty. It was not until 1950 that the army
                    moved its principal supply line from a position parallel to and within a few
                    miles of the Soviet zone to a more defensible location.
            This is not a book with which one settles down for an evening of escape.
                    Obviously, this is not its purpose. A history of military logistics will never
                    supplant the "still another" book on 
                        Gettysburg
                     for entertainment. Yet, here are details which anyone interested in
                    military history should delight in having available in his library. In August,
                    1944, there were 5,958 vehicles involved in the Red Ball Express supplying
                    Eisenhower's armies in 
                        France
                    . When the quartermaster general bought the first automobiles for
                    the army in 1906, the Treasury Department ruled that he had exceeded his
                    authority and charged the purchase to the general's personal account.
                    Union surgeons officially performed 29,980 amputations during the Civil War. In
                    the spring of 1778, one of 
                        Washington
                    's soldiers could look forward to a daily ration of one and
                    one half pounds of bread, a pound of beef or fish or pork and beans, and a gill
                    of whiskey. During the Korean War the army shipped 31,500,000 tons of supplies
                    to the Far East-an amount more than twice the tonnage shipped to the American
                    Expeditionary Forces in 1917-1918. Such details aid in establishing a proper
                    perspective of a time or of a specific problem.
            From the days of the colonial militia to the more complicated 1950's
                    Huston has analyzed as well as described the development of logistics. Experts
                    might note a minor gap here and there while some overlapping may bother a
                    reader. But the same experts should be pleased that the author has indicated and
                    criticized logistical failures, military organizational deficiencies, and the
                    preparedness myth. He deserves praise for his achievement in overcoming the
                    enormous problem of researching and writing a book of this broad, comprehensive
                    nature.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               
                
            Edward M. Coffman
         
         
         
            
               Russia, Bolshevism, and the 
                            Versailles
                         Peace. By John M. Thompson. Studies of the
                        Russian Institute, 
                        Columbia
                     University. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. vii, 429. Notes, maps, note on sources,
                    bibliography, index. $11.50.)
            The 
                        Versailles
                     Peace Conference, like the Congress of 
                        Vienna
                     a century before, faced the double challenge of restoring political
                    order after both a major war and a major revolution. Its experience in the
                    second of these endeavors is the subject of Thompson's book. Like a
                    Soviet book published a few years ago on the same subject, it might well have
                    been entitled The Russian Question at the 
                            Paris
                         Peace Conference.
            
            The author has emphasized those issues which were of the most direct concern to
                    the conference, such as the Prinkipo proposal, the Bullitt mission, and various
                    plans for the containment of the revolution in Russia. Further, he has centered
                    his attention on the conference and its deliberations rather than on the
                    Russians or events in Russia. The White Russian representatives in 
                        Paris
                     are treated briefly, though perhaps adequately in view of their
                    impact on the conference. The formation of the Third International, while of the
                    greatest interest in this context, is properly given only the briefest mention.
                    The Japanese, both as members of the conference and as directly interested
                    parties where the Russian Revolution was concerned, are a subject that could
                    profitably have been given a larger role in this narrative.
            Separate topics are given continuity in a way that seems appropriate in view of
                    their importance in the minds of the conference leaders. They are related to the
                    large issues which the conference faced, such as: defeated and revolutionary
                    Russia, defeated and potentially revolutionary 
                        Germany
                    , and the widespread fear that these two currents might run together
                    either from their political right or left or a combination of these extremes.
            The treatment of these topics and issues is characterized by a careful weighing
                    of a considerable amount of evidence, much of it new but all of it very
                    effectively used. It is also characterized by balanced judgments on many
                    individual, significant issues; by a conspicuous readiness to give full
                    consideration to individual and national interests; and by a high degree of
                    respect for the contemporary context of views and events. In short, the book is
                    a gratifying product of a search for an understanding of the early reception of
                    the Soviet regime in the West.
            
                    University of 
                            Hawaii
                        
               
                
            John Albert White
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
                    
                  Pictures from the Past … 
                     
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana. Compiled by Arthur C. Nordhoff. (The author,
                        1966. Pp. 125. Index, illustrations. Paper-bound.) This publication includes
                        a number of pictures, with commentary, which illustrate and explain aspects
                        of the history of 
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana, with emphasis on the period since the
                        1890's. The material here presented originally appeared in the 
                     
                                Dubois County
                             Daily Herald as a contribution to the Indiana
                        Sesquicentennial.
                    
                  Seventy-Seventh Annual Report, Indiana State Dairy Association,
                            Inc., 1967. [Edited by N. J. Moeller.] (Pp. 64. Illustrations.
                        Paperbound.) This annual report indicates the continued importance of
                        agriculture for Indiana and also the significant role of Purdue University
                        in its development. A feature of this pamphlet is the inclusion of a concise
                        "History of Dairying in Indiana and at Purdue University,"
                        by Professor J. W. Wilbur who recently retired after completing nearly a
                        half century on the Purdue University faculty.
                    
                  A Portion of That Field: The Centennial of the Burial of
                            Lincoln. By Gwendolyn Brooks et al. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Chicago
                         Press, 1967. Pp. 97. $3.50.) This is not
                        "just another book" about Abraham Lincoln. Its
                        contributors include poets, senators, governors, historians, and statesmen;
                        its contents range from poetry through speeches and essays. The volume
                        contains papers and dedicatory material presented in May, 1965, at the
                        centennial observance of Lincoln's burial. Although neither erudite
                        or scholarly, the work will evoke in its readers complete understanding and
                        agreement with Adlai Stevenson's concluding remarks: "we
                        shall not be the last to stand here at Lincoln's venerated tomb,
                        because countless men and women will, like Walt Whitman, mourn him
                        ‘with ever-returning spring’ " (p. 97). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University.
               
                    
                  Tom Walsh in Dakota Territory: Personal Correspondence of
                            Senator Thomas J. Walsh and Elinor C. McClements. Edited by J.
                        Leonard Bates. Preface by Genevieve Walsh Gudger. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1966. Pp. xviii, 301. Notes, illustrations, appendices,
                        selected bibliography, index. $7.95.) In August, 1884, Thomas J.
                        Walsh, future senator from 
                            Montana
                        , wrote to Miss Elinor C. McClements from the Dakota Territory,
                        "I have reached what seems to me … to be the promised
                        land" (p. 1). The letters which follow encompass Walsh's
                        courtship of Miss McClements and the cultural, political, and social
                        progress of the Dakotas, 
                            Chicago
                        , and the 
                            United States
                         in the 1880's. Although prepared from incomplete typed
                        copies of the original letters, the volume reveals the feelings and opinions
                        of two intelligent, informed correspondents about important events of their
                        day. Careful editing enhances this view of a new land, an incipient
                        politician, and an era. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana
                            University.
               
                    
                    
                  New Frontiers of the American Reconstruction. Edited by
                        Harold M. Hyman. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1966. Pp. x, 156. Notes. $4.95.) At a
                        Reconstruction Conference held at the University of 
                            Illinois
                         in April, 1965, specialists in Reconstruction history
                        re-examined the derogatory view held by many Americans of the period
                        following the Civil War. New Frontiers of the American Reconstruction
                        contains the essays and critical comments thereon presented at this
                        "Reconstruction centennial." Using the latest
                        historiography, conference participants discussed the usual themes of the
                        Negro and political-constitutional changes and such unusual topics as
                        Reconstruction's effects on South America and 
                            Canada
                        . Interesting and informative, the work is a provocative
                        contribution to this field of American history. Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                        Indiana University.
                    
                  Creative History: An Introduction to Historical Study. By
                        Walter T. K. Nugent. The Lippincott History Series. Edited
                        by Robert F. Byrnes and Robert D. Cross. (
                            Philadelphia
                        : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1967. Pp. iv, 204. Appendices,
                        index. Paperbound.) This volume is directed particularly to undergraduates
                        beginning their study of history. It seeks to introduce them to the nature
                        of history, how it should be studied, and some of the advantages and rewards
                        available from its study. Nugent is quite explicit in various suggestions
                        and comments, including those about use of the library, self-study,
                        outlining, reviewing for examinations, and how to do research.
                    
                  America's Schools and Churches: Partners in
                        Conflict. Edited by David W. Beggs, III, and R. Bruce McQuigg. (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1965. Pp. xii, 241. Tables,
                        appendix, selected bibliography, notes. $5.95.) A careful
                        reading—even a careful sampling— of the thirteen
                        essays in this book affords enough information and questions to indicate
                        that many intricate problems are involved in applying basic principles about
                        separation of church and state to actual school situations. Passim comment
                        and especially the appendix, which considers both policy and practice for
                        Indiana schools furnishes much evidence that important items regarding
                        proper relations between religion and education have as yet not been
                        resolved in this state.
                
         
      
   
