
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 64, Issue 3, pages 173-266. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:64+issue:3+year:1968&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Progressives Elect Will H. Hays Republican National Chairman, 1918
            
                    James O. Robertson
                    ∗
                
            The Republican national committee met in 
                        St. Louis
                     in February of 1918 to elect a new national chairman for the party. The country was in
                    the midst of a great war, but war could not keep the party professionals from planning the 1918
                    congressional campaign. The Republicans had been out of power since the presidential inauguration of
                    1913: Woodrow Wilson was in the White House, and Democrats also controlled both houses of Congress.
                    Five years was longer than Republicans had spent so completely out of power since 
                        Lincoln
                     had been inaugurated in 1861, and party leaders— world war or no world
                    war—were desperate to win an election. To win, the party would have to overcome the
                    normal patriotic support of a wartime administration and the appeals of President Wilson for a
                    nonpartisan campaign in 1918. But more important for the professionals, if the Republicans were to
                    win, the breach that had torn the party apart in 1912 and had only been partially healed in 1916
                    would have to be completely mended.1
            
            In 1912 Theodore Roosevelt, the energetic Republican ex-President, had led a group of disgruntled
                    followers out of the Republican convention and formed a new Progressive party whose symbol had been
                    a big bull moose. Roosevelt, as the nominee of the Bull Moose Progressives, had campaigned against
                    Republican President William Howard Taft and Democrat Woodrow Wilson. The result had been a split in
                    the normal Republican vote—and the election of Wilson.2
            
            The progressives who had formed a party around Roosevelt in 1912 were only part of a much larger
                    group of people, both in and out of politics, who were trying to adjust American attitudes and
                    American political and governmental institutions to the forces of industrial change, urban growth,
                    and agricultural decline that had developed in the United States since the end of the Civil War. In
                    the first decade of the twentieth century the progressive movement, as it came to be called,
                    included urban political reformers, social workers, agricultural reformers, labor leaders,
                    conservationists, big businessmen, journalists, and an increasing number of young political leaders.
                    Both major parties had reacted slowly to progressivism, but the accident of an assassin's
                    bullet and Roosevelt's enthusiastic penchant for propagandizing 
                  
                     ∗ James O. Robertson is assistant professor of history at
                            the. University of 
                                Connecticut
                            , Storrs, 
                                Connecticut
                            .
                  
                     1 George W. Perkins to Nicholas M. Butler, January 11, 1918; Perkins
                            to Hiram W. Johnson, January 11, 1918; John W. Weeks to Perkins, January 15, 1918, George W.
                            Perkins Papers, 
                                Columbia
                             University Library, 
                        New
                                York; Henry
                      Cabot Lodge to Brooks 
                                Adams
                            , February 5, 1918, 
                                Henry
                             Cabot Lodge Papers, 
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, 
                                Boston
                            .
                  
                     2 The popular vote was: Wilson, 6,296,547; Roosevelt, 4,126,020; Taft,
                            3,486,720. Wilson won 435 electoral votes, Roosevelt 88, and Taft only 8. Eugene H.
                            Roseboom, A History of Presidential Elections (2nd ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1964), 374.
               
                    
                    
                  WILL H. HAYS. Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     good causes put him in the presidency at the beginning of the
                    century and encouraged the growth of progressivism within the Republican party. During
                    Roosevelt's presidency (1901-1909), young progressives had made their careers and
                    established their political bases in the Republican party on platforms involving political reform
                    (direct election of senators, initiative, referendum, and direct primary),
                    "trust-busting," the reduction of the uncontrolled power of big business, economic
                    regulation through commissions of trained experts, increased executive leadership at all levels of
                    government, stronger national government, conservation of resources, and humanitarianism.3
            
            As the progressive politicians rose from local and state to national office, they found themselves
                    increasingly in conflict with entrenched political leaders backed, in many cases, by entrenched
                    economic interests. In the Democratic party, the progressives made adjustments to some of the older
                    leadership groups, most notably those around William Jennings Bryan. In the Republican party,
                    however, both the structure of the "old guard"—a cooptive group based
                    in the Senate and jealous of its power—and the verbal encouragement of President
                    Roosevelt tended to heighten the progressives' consciousness of themselves as a different
                    and "better" group within the party with their own identity and their own
                    programs. So long as he was President and effective leader of the Republican party, Roosevelt was
                    able—by deft manipulation, cajolery, and occasional use of the "big
                    stick"—to keep the progressives and the old guard from coming to blows.4
            
            Roosevelt's hand-picked successor, William Howard Taft (1909–1913), was not so
                    deft. Although an able administrator, Taft was not an effective party leader. On issues crucial to
                    them, Taft alienated the progressives in his party. He also alienated—and then
                    infuriated—Roosevelt, who, in his fifties and still bouncingly energetic, found it
                    unbearable to be absent from the center of power. Roosevelt campaigned against Taft in the
                    Republican primaries in 1912, won most of them, but did not win the convention. He then formed his
                    own party.5
            
            The Progressive party never, even at its inception, included all the Republican progressives, nor did
                    it include all the progressive-minded people in the country. Wilson, himself a Democratic
                    progressive, appealed not only to like-minded people in his own party but to some independents and
                    Republican progressives as well. (Progressive Republican Senator Robert La 
                  
                     3 The arguments about who the progressives were and what they were
                            trying to do are conflicting. Some of the better presentations of the arguments are: Richard
                            Hofstadter, The Age of Reform from Bryan to F.D.R. (
                                New York
                            , 1955); George E. Mowry, The 
                                    California
                                 Progressives (Berkeley, 1951); George E. Mowry, The Era
                                of Theodore Roosevelt, 1900–1912 (
                                New York
                            , 1958); Russel B. Nye, Midwestern Progressive Politics (East
                            Lansing, 1959); and Gabriel Kolko, The Triumph of Conservatism (Glencoe,
                            1963).
                  
                     4 The literature on Theodore Roosevelt is considerable. The best
                            single volume biography is probably William H. Harbaugh, The Life and Times of
                                Theodore Roosevelt (
                                New York
                            , 1966). On Roosevelt's relationship to the progressives and to power,
                            see George E. Mowry, Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1960); and John M. Blum, The Republican Roosevelt (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1954).
                  
                     5 Mowry, Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive
                            Movement, 220–52.
               
                     Follette of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , among others, supported Wilson in 1912.) Nor were all those who joined the Progressive
                    party of one mind. Some liked the party's strong, idealistic platform but distrusted its
                    candidate and his followers. There were those who backed Roosevelt but had grave doubts about the
                    progressive program. There were others who liked both. After the loss of the election of 1912, some
                    factions—notably those who disliked Roosevelt and his men— left the party.
                    After disastrous losses in the local elections in 1914, more splinter groups and individual leaders
                    deserted. By 1916, except for the ardent followers of Roosevelt—and even they were
                    divided—the Bull Moose party had fallen apart.6
            
            Roosevelt was still eager for power. He tried to use the remnants of the Progressive party and the
                    threat of another break with the Republicans to bargain his way to the Republican nomination in
                    1916. He lost. Charles Evans Hughes, associate justice of the Supreme Court and former progressive
                    governor of Roosevelt's own state of 
                        New York
                    , was nominated. The old guard Republican leadership, more firmly entrenched in the
                    control of the party machinery since Roosevelt and his progressive followers had bolted, did not
                    trust the former President. They had nominated Hughes because he was a mild progressive who had been
                    neutral in 1912 (due to his position on the Supreme Court). They hoped Hughes would bring the
                    progressive voters back to the Republican fold, and with them would come the power the party had
                    lost in 1912.7
            
            Hughes failed, although the election was a close one. Many Republican leaders blamed the loss on the
                    Bull Moose Progressives, who had not been very enthusiastic in their support of Hughes despite the
                    fact that the Progressive party organization had endorsed him and the campaign had been run by a
                    joint Progressive-Republican committee. With the Republicans' defeat, the old guard leaders
                    decided to get rid of Hughes' men, including William R. Willcox, the national chairman.
                    They wanted to put in men acceptable to the old guard and to run the party as they wished. The
                    progressive Republicans, particularly the old Bull Moosers, wanted "real"
                    progressives in control of the Republican organization, not "luke-warm" Hughes
                    progressives. They wanted to take over the Republican party, having failed with their own party, and
                    make it a truly progressive organization. Roosevelt still wanted another Republican nomination, and
                    some of his devoted followers wanted men favorable to him—whatever their feelings about
                    progres- sivism—in control of the Republican party. There were, too, some young 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 220–366; Amos R. E. Pinchot, History of the
                                Progressive Party, 1912–1916 (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 182–231.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Henry
                             Cabot Lodge to Elihu Root, February 14, 1916; Lodge to Sir George Trevelyan,
                            March 29, 1916; Lodge to W. S. Bigelow, May 26, 1916, Lodge Papers; transcript of telephone
                            conservations between Theodore Roosevelt and George W. Perkins and others during the 1916
                            conventions, June 5–7, 1916, Perkins Papers; Mowry, Theodore
                                Roosevelt and the Progressive Movement, 345–66.
               
                     Republican leaders who were eager to forget the differences
                    between the old guard and the progressives and get to the businss of winning elections.8
            
            These were the groups who met in 
                        St. Louis
                     early in 1918 to elect a new Republican national chairman. These were the interests the
                    new chairman would have to reconcile if the Republicans were to win the Congress in 1918 and the
                    presidency in 1920.
            The fight for control of the Republican organization started soon after the 1916 election was lost.
                    Losing an election is always a blow to the power and prestige of a national chairman, and if he is
                    not strongly backed by the professionals and the party leadership groups, his position is difficult
                    at best. Chairman Willcox found himself attacked from all sides after November, 1916, and to try to
                    bring some solution to the problem he called the executive committee of the national committee to
                    meet after New Years Day, 1917.9
            
            Among those invited to the Republican executive committee meeting were two men who were still
                    officially members of the Progressive party: George W. Perkins, the chairman of the Bull Moose party
                    and the man who, next to Roosevelt, was symbolic of that party and all it meant to the Republican
                    professionals; and Everett Colby, Perkins' colleague on the Progressive party staff. They
                    were invited because they had been members of the joint Progressive-Republican campaign committee
                    and because the Republicans felt they represented not only the progressives but also Roosevelt and
                    his ambitions.
            Perkins was a former partner in the J. P. Morgan and Company bank. His offer of financial backing had
                    enabled Roosevelt to make the decision to form his own party in 1912. Since that time Perkins had
                    been Roosevelt's "right-hand man" and chairman of the Progressive
                    party's executive committee. He had managed Roosevelt's effort to capture the 1916
                    Republican nomination, and after that failed, he had taken on himself the task of easing the Bull
                    Moosers officially back into the Republican party and using their strength to help Roosevelt get the
                    1920 Republican nomination. The Republican regulars seemed to regard Perkins as a necessary, but
                    evil, part of the workings of the Republican executive committee.10
            
            At the Republican committee meeting in January, 1917, Perkins planned to negotiate the formal reentry
                    of the Progressives into the GOP and to try to get official progressive representation on Republican
                    party councils. The old guard on the executive committee intended to get Chairman Willcox to resign.
                    Failing that, they planned to assure a regular Republican successor 
                  
                     8 Herbert Parsons to Samuel A. Perkins, November 24, 1916; Parsons to
                            George W. Perkins, December 14, 1916, Herbert Parsons Papers, 
                                Columbia
                             University Library, 
                        New
                                York; Henry
                      Cabot Lodge to Sir
                            George Trevelyan, December 23, 1916, Lodge Papers; John T. Adams to George W. Perkins,
                            November 22, 1916, Perkins Papers; Mowry, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Progressives, 267–73; Spencer C. Olin, Jr., "Hiram 
                                Johnson
                            , the 
                                California
                             Progressives, and the Hughes Campaign of 1916," Pacific
                                Historical Review, XXXI (November, 1962), 403–12.
                  
                     9 Statement to the press by George W. Perkins and Everett Colby,
                            January 15, 16, 1917, Perkins Papers.
                  
                     10 See John A. Garraty's excellent biography, Right-Hand Man: The Life of George W. Perkins (
                                New York
                            , 1960), especially 243ff., 327–52.
               
                     to Willcox when he did resign. With or without Willcox, they
                    intended to exclude progressive leaders from any position of power in the party.11
            
            The executive committee meeting was nearly a total success for the Republican regulars. They did not
                    force Willcox out, but they elected a vice chairman, obviously intended to be his successor. They
                    tied Willcox' hands by putting the power to decide all matters of "publicity,
                    finance, and expense" jointly in the hands of the chairman, the new vice chairman, and the
                    treasurer. The vice chairman, John T. Adams of 
                  Dubuque, Iowa
               , and the
                    treasurer, Fred W. Upham of 
                        Illinois
                    , were both old guard regulars. They could therefore control Willcox and suppress any
                    progressive influence on the national organization.
            Perkins did not even get a chance to present his plan for the reconciliation of the progressives. The
                    vice chairmanship was the committee's first order of business, and upon 
                        Adams
                    ' election, Perkins and Colby left the meeting in a huff. Later in the evening
                    they issued a joint denunciation of the committee's action to the press and appealed to
                    progressive leaders across the country for support.12
            
            The progressives rallied to Perkins, but their support was not altogether enthusiastic. In general,
                    they did not think there was any "prospect of concessions being made by the old line
                    organization." One of them wrote Perkins: "I feel that the Republican Organization
                    is utterly hopeless from our point of view." Most progressives agreed, and most of them
                    felt Perkins had made a tactical error in trying to negotiate with the Republican leadership at all.
                    They were not surprised he had failed.13
            
            Two days after Perkins walked out of the Republican meeting, a group of progressive leaders met in 
                        Washington
                     to discuss, among other things, how to get rid of him. For some time these
                    leaders—centered around progressive editor 
                        Chester
                     Rowell of 
                        California
                    , urban reformer Harold Ickes of 
                        Illinois
                    , and pioneer conservationist Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania—all of whom
                    considered themselves "westerners," had been at cross purposes with the
                    "eastern" leadership of the Progressive party organization around Perkins. These
                    westerners had early banded together on the basis of a common love of Roosevelt, a dislike of
                    Perkins, and an effort to control the direction of the Progressive party. They had cooperated with
                    Perkins and his group in public in order to maintain party unity. They had worked hard to help the
                    progressive cause in the 1916 campaign. After that campaign they had published a program for
                    progressives, calling for a national conference and 
                  
                     11 George W. Perkins to William D. Lewis, January 15, 1917, Perkins
                            Papers.
                  
                     12 The committee meeting had been well planned by the old guard.
                            Ex-Senator James Hemenway of Indiana with three others on the committee were in favor of 
                                Adams
                            . Willcox and three members were for the progressives, but Hemenway had proxies
                            from three absent members and carried the day. Indiana State Chairman Will Hays was present
                            but did not participate in the action. Statement by George W. Perkins and Everett Colby,
                            January 15, 16, 1917; and telegrams to over one hundred progressive leaders, January 16,
                            1917, Perkins Papers; Herbert Parsons to Perkins, February 1, 1917, Parsons Papers; 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, January 17, 1917.
                  
                     13 Miles Poindexter to George W. Perkins, February 2, 1917; Robert P.
                            Bass to Perkins, February 22, 1917; and other letters in response to Perkins'
                            telegram, in folders of January and February, 1917, Perkins Papers.
               
                     demanding representation of the progressives on the Republican
                    executive committee.14
            
            Perkins' eastern group of leaders had little direct contact with progressive voters. Their
                    influence depended largely upon their close relationship with Roosevelt. So long as he needed them
                    they were powerful. Of the entire group Perkins himself was the man closest to Roosevelt and the man
                    with the least personal political power. In the attempt to reenter the Republican organization,
                    these men felt they could not afford to demand, but rather had to negotiate carefully and quietly
                    for place in the Republican machinery. They could not flaunt progressive strength because there was
                    no assurance that that strength would be behind them if their bluff were called.15
            
            The western progressive group felt it could use progressive voting strength as a bludgeon if
                    necessary to back up their demands for place, power, and ultimately control in the national
                    Republican organization. Most of the progressive voting strength, and all of the progressive
                    strength in local Republican party organizations, was concentrated in the Middle and Far West. The
                    westerners felt themselves to be the natural leaders of that strength. After what they felt was the
                    failure of compromising with the old guard Republicans in the 1916 campaign, they wanted to get rid
                    of "eastern" control, "take the initiative," and bring about a
                    "new deal" which was to be a "Western deal." Even before Perkins
                    met with the Republican committee, they had made plans and started projects without his knowledge
                    and had speculated on how to get rid of him.16
            
            When Perkins failed with the Republicans, the westerners jumped at their chance. One of them went to
                    demand his resignation as chairman of the executive committee. Perkins proved
                    "difficult" and refused to resign. Ickes appealed to Roosevelt on behalf of the
                    westerners. The western leaders, 
                  
                     14 The "western" group included Ickes (later
                            Franklin D. Roosevelt's secretary of the interior), Pinchot (first chief forester
                            of the United States under Theodore Roosevelt and later governor of Pennsylvania,
                            1923–1927, 1931–1935), Rowell (close friend of Senator Hiram 
                                Johnson
                            ), William Allen White (already renowned for his 
                                Kansas
                             paper, the Emporia Gazette), James R. Garfield (son of the
                            President and Theodore Roosevelt's secretary of the interior), Raymond Robins
                            (wealthy 
                                Chicago
                             liberal reformer and lecturer), 
                                Henry
                                Allen
                             (
                                Kansas
                             publisher, later governor of 
                                Kansas
                            , 1919-1923), Donald Richberg (Ickes' law partner, later a famous New
                            Dealer), and several others who were close to the group but not so active in its affairs,
                            such as Dean William Draper Lewis of the University of Pennsylvania Law School; Senator
                            Hiram 
                                Johnson
                            , the progressive leader of 
                                California
                            ; and Herbert 
                                Knox
                             Smith, eminent 
                                Connecticut
                             lawyer and Theodore Roosevelt's commissioner of corporations. Harold
                            L. Ickes to James R. Garfield, January 20, 1917; George W. Perkins to William A. White,
                            December 22, 1916, Gifford Pinchot Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.; transcript of telephone conversations, June 5–7, 1916;
                            William A. White to Perkins, February 13, 1917, Perkins Papers; statement, "At an
                            Informal Conference Held in 
                                Chicago
                             on December 14, 1916…," Harold L. Ickes Papers, Manuscripts
                            Division, Library of Congress.
                  
                     15 James O. Robertson, "The Progressives in National
                            Republican Politics, 1916- 1921" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 1964), 32–51.
                  
                     16 Ickes and Pinchot both set up state Progressive leagues. They also
                            decided to call a national progressive conference over the objections of Perkins and
                            Roosevelt. Harold L. Ickes to Gifford Pinchot, July 8, November 11, December 21, 1916;
                            Pinchot to Ickes, December 15, 26, 1916; William A. White to Ickes, December 16, 1916;
                            Pinchot to White, December 26, 1916, Pinchot Papers.
               
                     he said, had worked without benefit of Perkins for some time in
                    order to "indicate that every progressive movement was not a Perkins movement."
                    Perkins' effort to win "by indirect and secret means" what the westerners
                    wanted to win "by open challenge"—namely control of the Republican
                    party—had destroyed all progressive confidence in him. Ickes wrote: "The
                    progressives… are not interested in dickering for representation of their
                    leaders…. The progressives want a big issue. They don't want to compromise with
                    the old guard; they want to throw them out; they don't want to divide control; they want to
                    take control…." The westerners, Ickes concluded, were going to drop Perkins. It
                    would be well, he thought, if Roosevelt did too. The "petty political row" Perkins
                    had started with the Republicans, he warned, might well prove fatal to Roosevelt's hopes
                    for the nomination in 1920.17
            
            Fortunately for Ickes and his friends the coming of World War I to America submerged their dispute
                    with Perkins. Having taken a private stand against him, they were at a loss to do anything more. If
                    Roosevelt did not publicly kick Perkins out, the westerners would, as Pinchot remarked, find it
                    difficult "to make Progressives over the country understand in any statement we might issue
                    why we are opposing what Perkins is doing." Roosevelt did finally tell Perkins to let the
                    westerners go their own way, but the war had already intervened.18
            
            The war brought, too, a hiatus in the fight Perkins had started with the Republican executive
                    committee. Chairman Willcox refused to call a meeting of the full national committee, despite
                    pressure from Perkins, and the announced preliminary plans for the 1918 Republican campaign
                    completely ignored the progressives. Perkins' position vis-a-vis the Republican leadership
                    was increasingly weakened by Roosevelt's drift toward the regular Republicans, as well as
                    by the coolness of the other progressive leaders toward him.198
            
            Ickes, Perkins, and many of the other progressives quickly found themselves useful war work, and, for
                    a while, politics fell into the background. But by January, 1918, it was no longer possible for
                    politicians to ignore politics—a congressional campaign was about to begin. On January
                    11, 1918, Willcox sent out a call for a Republican national committee meeting to be held in 
                        St. Louis
                     on February 12.
            
               
                  17 Harold L. Ickes to Theodore Roosevelt, January 19, 1917; Ickes to
                        Gifford Pinchot, January 19, 1917; Herbert 
                            Knox
                         Smith to William Draper Lewis, January 20, 1917, Pinchot Papers; Raymond Robins to
                        George W. Perkins, January 19, 1917, Perkins Papers.
               
                  18 More than seventeen letters were exchanged in a two week period among
                        the westerners about getting rid of Perkins. See especially Gifford Pinchot to Harold L. Ickes,
                        January 22, 1917; Pinchot to James R. Garfield, March 7, 1917, Pinchot Papers; Medill McCormick
                        to George W. Perkins, February 4, 1917; Perkins to McCormick, February 8, 1917; Perkins to
                        Theodore Roosevelt, January 20, 1917, Perkins Papers.
               
                  19 George W. Perkins to William R. Willcox, February 21, March 23, 1917,
                        Perkins Papers; Harold L. Ickes to Gifford Pinchot, February 12, 16, 27, March 1, 9, 1917; James
                        R. Garfield to Pinchot, February 23, 1917; Pinchot to Garfield, March 7, 1917, Pinchot Papers;
                        Mowry, Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive Movement, 368.
            
            
            Four days later Willcox resigned as chairman of the national committee. He left the choice of his
                    successor to the committee members. So confident were the old guard leaders that they controlled the
                    Republican machinery and would elect the new chairman that they invited the progressive members of
                    the 1916 joint Progressive-Republican committee to the 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting, and told them that John T. Adams, the vice chairman, would be
                    "promoted" to Willcox' place. Perkins was informed that the two
                    progressive senators from 
                  Iowa, Adams
               ' home state, had given their
                    "enthusiastic" approval to the choice of 
                        Adams
                    . The regulars seemed to have the situation well in hand.20
            
            Perkins could not have been surprised by Willcox' resignation or by the announcement that
                    Adams would succeed him. Nor had his strategy changed in the year since the Republican executive
                    committee had elected 
                        Adams
                     vice chairman. His desire was still to win a place for progressives. Now he decided to
                    concentrate his efforts on the national chairmanship because he thought he might win the fight for a
                    single place—even so important a place.21
            
            Perkins' first move was to try to solidify the progressive strength behind him. The
                    progressive members of the 1916 campaign committee had been evenly divided between Perkins'
                    friends—Perkins, Colby, and Oscar S. Straus— and the western
                    group—Ickes, James Garfield, and Rowell. The westerners refused to support Perkins in his
                    new efforts. Rowell, recovering from an attack of typhus in 
                        California
                    , refused even to come to the 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting. "For fifty years," he wrote to Perkins, "the
                    Executive Committee of the Republican Party has been the governing body of the United States, and it
                    has been a self-perpetuating autocracy." It had proved itself
                    "invincible" in 1912 and again in 1916, and Rowell doubted that it would abdicate
                    "by its own consent," which was what would have to happen if the progressives were
                    to get any power on the national committee.22
            
            None of the westerners thought there was any chance to elect a really progressive national chairman.
                    They were loathe to spend their energies and their political capital fighting against a member of
                    the old guard. They wanted to fight for a progressive. They appealed to Roosevelt for advice, but he
                    had no desire for an open battle with the regulars and refused to give advice. Finally, only one
                    westerner, Ickes, went to the meeting at all; and although he maintained open opposition to Perkins,
                    so far as the public was concerned and so far as the old guard leaders could see, Perkins went to
                    the 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting the admitted leader of and spokesman for the progressives in the Republican
                        party.23
            
            
               
                  20 George W. Perkins to Nicholas M. Butler, January 11, 1918; Perkins to
                        all progressive leaders, January 25, 1918; John W. Weeks to Perkins, January 15, 24, 1918,
                        Perkins Papers. The two 
                            Iowa
                         senators were Albert B. Cummins and William S. Kenyon whose relationship with the
                        regular Republican organization in 
                            Iowa
                        , controlled by Adams, required that they support 
                            Adams
                        .
               
                  21 George W. Perkins to Hiram W. Johnson, January 11, 1918; Perkins to
                        Walter F. Brown and John C. Shaffer, January 16, 1918; Perkins to progressive leaders, January
                        19, 1918; Perkins to 
                            Chester
                         Rowell, January 30, 1918, Perkins Papers.
               
                  22
                        
                            Chester
                         Rowell to George W. Perkins, January 25, 1918, Perkins Papers.
               
                  23 Harold L. Ickes to Theodore Roosevelt, January 24, 1918; Roosevelt to
                        Ickes, February 1, 1918, Ickes Papers; George W. Perkins to Walter 
                            Brown
                        , February 6, 7, 1918; James R. Garfield to Perkins, February 6, 1918; Perkins to
                        Ickes, February 5, 1918; Ickes to Perkins, February 6, 1918, Perkins Papers.
            
            
            Having gained at least the appearance of progressive support, Perkins threw down the gauntlet to the
                    old guard. He told Senator John W. Weeks of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who was close to the old guard leaders, that the progressives intended to fight the
                    election of 
                        Adams
                    , and he threatened progressive defection from the Republicans if the "old line
                    members" of the leadership insisted on maintaining "complete control" of
                    the party. He mentioned no candidate for the chairmanship, but the man selected would, he said, have
                    to have "the ability to harmonize" and "the ability to organize"
                    if he were to gain his support and that of the progressives.24
            
            Senator Weeks replied that only two men had been mentioned for the national chairmanship: Will 
                        Hays
                    , the young chairman of the Indiana Republican state committee, and 
                        Adams
                    , a man who had been a devoted, hard working member of the national committee for years,
                    who knew people all over the country, and who was "in a sense in line for
                    promotion." 
                        Hays
                    , Weeks wrote off as "an excellent man," but one who might run for
                    governor of Indiana and one who, if he were elected chairman, might have to have "ample
                    compensation," a death-dealing blow considering the public prejudice against paid political
                    managers. 
                        Adams
                    , Weeks said, was "likely to be selected." But at the same time the
                    progressives would not be neglected. It would be the purpose of "whoever is in charge of
                    the organization to try to induce" Perkins himself, Colby, and others "to become a
                    part of the working organization." Weeks told Perkins that "undoubtedly"
                    he and "Colonel Roosevelt could indicate whoever you thought desirable for that
                    connection." Given the possibility of naming their own representatives to the Republican
                    organization, it did not seem to Weeks that "there ought to be any quarrel over this matter
                    of the chairmanship" from Perkins, Roosevelt, or their supporters. The old guard was
                    willing to bend to pressure, but they had no intention of giving the chairmanship to anyone but a
                    man of their own choosing. The progressives were pushing too hard: "Nothing can be gained
                    by trying to demonstrate that we are not anxious for the success of the Republican party,"
                    Weeks lashed out, or "that we are inimical to sane, reasonable, and real
                    progress." The old guard leaders, he pointed out, "have the approval of the voters
                    of our own States." Furthermore, Weeks claimed that he himself had "actually been
                    insistent on more real liberal legislation than half the men in public life who pose as
                    progressives." The progressives could have their patronage, but they could not have the
                        chairmanship.25
            
            Weeks' mention of 
                        Hays
                     had been deliberate. By the end of January, 1918, it was clear that Hays was making a
                    strong bid for the chairmanship and that Perkins, and perhaps the progressive organization, might
                    well be quietly supporting him. So it must have seemed to Weeks and his old guard friends.
            When 
                        Hays
                     started actively to seek the job of chairman is not clear, and probably never will be.
                    Politicians of that day tended to be very shy of putting down on paper their actual motives and
                    desires; even their con- 
                  
                     24 George W. Perkins to John W. Weeks, January 29, 1918, Perkins
                            Papers.
                  
                     25 John W. Weeks to George W. Perkins, January 30, 1918, Perkins
                            Papers.
               
                     versation, except in the most confidential of circumstances,
                    was eliptical. It was part of the political game, and many of them played that game with great zest,
                    using simple codes, wearing disguises occasionally, making dashing, unannounced trips to mysterious
                    destinations, and scrawling "Personal and Confidential!!" across even the most
                    inconsequential letters to their colleagues. It was not proper to be seeking office; one had to be
                    "called." Efforts to win office had to be couched in terms that could immediately
                    be disclaimed. All the commonplace efforts which ambitious men make to achieve their
                    goals—all the pressures, the arm twisting and occasional blackmail, the influence sought
                    and brought to bear, the returning of favors, even the canvassing of votes—had to be
                    removed from the public eye and the public consciousness. Hays was a good politician, and no direct
                    record has been found concerning when he started to seek the office of Republican national committee
                    chairman. On record, there are—to the day he was elected and long
                    after—constant denials that he was seeking the office at all.26
            
            
               
                        Hays
                     first came to national attention during the Republican campaign of 1916 when his
                    Indiana organization carried the state for Hughes and the Republicans by a great majority in the
                    face of a general Democratic victory in the Midwest and the nation. Hays was a skillful organizer of
                    party workers and something of an innovator of modern campaign techniques (the
                    "citizens" committees and advisory groups of eminent public leaders for campaign
                    organizations). He had also very carefully brought the old Bull Moose Progressives back to the
                    Republican fold in Indiana by cooperating with their local organizations where they were powerful
                    and by dividing the higher offices in the state organization among the regular Republicans and the
                    progressives. He had, thereby, undercut the independent progressive organization in the state and at
                    the same time had "harmonized" the two wings of the Republican party into a
                    working unit. His efforts had brought recognition from the national Republican campaign organization
                    during the campaign, and some national publicity as well. There were progressives who were not happy
                    about his performance, perhaps out of disappointment that the progressive organization in Indiana
                    had succumbed so easily to blandishments of place, preferment, and prestige. Ickes, years later,
                    expressed best the progressive dislike of 
                        Hays
                     when he wrote that "considering the dollars that were poured into Indiana, the
                    campaign paraphernalia and the man power that were literally dumped into the Hoosier campaign [by
                    the national campaign committee], any second-rate precinct committeeman could have delivered it to
                    Dopey the Dwarf." It was, however, a back-handed tribute to 
                        Hays
                    ' skill as a political manager that he could have gotten such preferential
                    treatment from the national campaign headquarters.27
            
            After the 1916 campaign was over, 
                        Hays
                     carefully maintained his con- 
                  
                     26 Will 
                                Hays
                             to Henry W. Rose, December 29, 1917; 
                                Hays
                             to W. E. Humphrey, January 4, 1918; 
                                Hays
                             to Fred W. Beetson, n.d.; 
                                Hays
                             to Charles A. Carlisle, February 8, 1918; 
                                Hays
                             to Dave S. Dunlop, February 9, 1918, Will 
                                Hays
                             Papers, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Will H. Hays, The Memoirs of Will H. Hays (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 153–55.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Hays
                            , Memoirs, 89–113; Harold L. Ickes, The Autobiography of a Curmudgeon (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 189.
               
                     tacts with the national Republican organization and with the
                    progressive organization as represented by Perkins. He travelled frequently to 
                        New York
                     to see Perkins and other Republican leaders in his capacity as state Republican leader,
                    and after the United States declared war in April, 1917, in his capacity as head of the Indiana
                    Council for Defense. The defense council post gave him an excellent opportunity to maintain his
                    political contacts in Indiana, and to expand his contacts nationally, in a context of patriotic
                    defense work rather than of crude, partisan politics. He supported Perkins in 1917, in
                    Perkins' battle with the Republican executive committee, while he remained in the good
                    graces of Willcox and some of the regular Republican leaders of Indiana—Governor James P.
                    Goodrich and Senators Harry S. New and James E. Watson.28
            
            Sometime in 1917, New undertook to begin a quiet campaign to gain the national chairmanship for 
                        Hays
                    . New was very careful about his methods. He talked confidentially to state and national
                    political leaders about 
                        Hays
                     but never mentioned him publicly. His timing was equally careful. Newspaper reports of 
                        Hays
                    ' candidacy did not begin, even in 
                        Hays
                    ' own locale, until late in 1917. On November 25, 1917, the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer reported: "it is declared that Senator Harry S. New and other
                    well-known Republicans have enlisted in a movement" to elect 
                        Hays
                     national chairman. "It is said," the Enquirer
                    continued in a special dispatch from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that national committee members had been approached and that "there is
                    considerable sentiment in his [
                        Hays
                    '] favor."29
            
            A month later, in late December, 1917, there were reports of 
                        Hays
                    ' candidacy in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Washington
                     newspapers, and Hays was beginning to receive assurances of support based on press
                    reports. On New's advice, 
                        Hays
                     denied categorically any knowledge of the "movement" to elect him
                    chairman: "I know nothing about the matter, have no information directly or indirectly
                    about it and, of course, am not interested in any way whatsoever," he wrote to one
                    volunteer supporter. He conferred quietly in 
                        Washington
                     with Indiana Republican leaders—Governor Goodrich, Senator Watson, and
                    ex-Senator James Hemenway, the Indiana Republican national committeeman—but even to them
                    he denied any knowledge of his candidacy. After one meeting he wrote Watson, quite innocently:
                    "I want to do in all these things what you and the boys want, but this comes to me entirely
                    out of a clear sky, and I do not know what to say."30
            
            
               
                        Hays
                     obtained the support of Willcox, although how much the outgoing and somewhat
                    discredited head of the party could do was questionable. By 
                  
                     28 Medill McCormick to George W. Perkins, February 4, 1917, Perkins
                            Papers; Harry S. New to Will 
                                Hays
                            , December 19, 1917, 
                                Hays
                             Papers; 
                                Hays
                            , Memoirs, 148. Ex-Senator Albert J. Beveridge, an influential
                            progressive Republican, was out of Indiana, except for occasional visits, throughout 1917
                            and most of 1918. He did not take part in 
                                Hays
                            ' campaign for the chairmanship.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer, November 25, 1917.
                  
                     30 Harry S. New to Will 
                                Hays
                            , December 23, 1917; James E. Watson to 
                                Hays
                            , December 24, 1917; 
                                Hays
                             to J. D. Oliver, December 29, 1917; 
                                Hays
                             to Watson, December 29, 1917, 
                                Hays
                             Papers.
               
                     the end of January, 1918, support for 
                        Hays
                     had come from many of the discontented elements in the party. New reported strong and
                    important support for 
                        Hays
                     among some members of the national committee. And Perkins had decided that Hays was to
                    be the candidate of the progressives.31
            
            Before he went openly to work for him, Perkins assured himself that the Hoosier would accept the
                    chairmanship and that he would not have to be paid a salary. Perkins then sought out some of the
                    national committeemen with whom he had worked in the past. Alvin T. "Tobe" Hert of 
                        Kentucky
                    , was one of these, and Hert became the liason between Perkins' group and New,
                    the campaign leader for 
                        Hays
                    . Perkins was instrumental in forcing Hemenway, a powerful member of the old guard
                    leadership, to endorse his fellow Hoosier, but neither Perkins nor New put much faith in
                    Hemenway's support. In fact it became clear that Hemenway, despite his endorsement of 
                        Hays
                    , was 
                        Adams
                    ' principal supporter in the fight for the chairmanship.32
            
            Despite all New and Perkins could do, it seemed probable that when the national committee met, 
                        Adams
                     would be elected chairman. He claimed to have the support of thirty-five of the
                    forty-seven committeemen who intended to go to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and there was, so far as 
                        Adams
                     himself knew, "no united opposition" to his candidacy.33 There were committeemen opposed to 
                        Adams
                    , but the 
                        Hays
                     forces had not been able to get them to unite on their candidate. The problem seemed to
                    be that no one near the national committee thought 
                        Hays
                     could win, and they were loathe to risk their political necks in a fight that seemed
                    doomed to fail. As one Indiana congressman wrote 
                        Hays
                    , after New had asked that all the Indiana congressmen campaign for him: "we
                    fear that… it might leave us in a bad shape, if we got likked [sic]." To get national committeemen to go back on their promises to 
                        Adams
                     would require some very clear indication that he could be beaten.34
            
            
               
                        Adams
                     himself received the first intimation that the opposition might be dangerous. He had
                    written to Roosevelt in an effort to get his help against Perkins, whose opposition had at least
                    become annoying. Roosevelt's reply concealed a knife: 
                        I need hardly say that I have none but the friendliest feeling toward you, but I do not think
                            it is wise for you to accept the Chairmanship at this time and under existing 
                        
                           31 William R. Willcox to Will 
                                        Hays
                                    , December 29, 1917; A. H. Melville to 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 3, 1918; Medill McCormick to 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 8, 1918; Carl [Slursi ?] to 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 8, 1918; Frederick G. Tanner to 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 10, 1918; Harry S. New to 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 15, 24, 26, 1918, 
                                        Hays
                                     Papers.
                        
                           32 Besides Hert, Perkins was working with National
                                    Committeeman R. B. Howell of 
                                        Nebraska
                                    ; Senator William Calder of 
                                        New York
                                    ; Walter F. Brown, a 
                                        Toledo
                                     publisher who had been a financial backer of the Progressive party; and
                                    John C. Shaffer, a 
                                        Chicago
                                     publisher who had also backed the progressives. R. B. Howell to George
                                    W. Perkins, February 2, 1918; Joseph M. Dixon to Perkins, February 4, 1918, Perkins
                                    Papers; William M. Calder to Herbert Parsons, February 18, 1918, Parsons Papers;
                                    Harry S. New to Will 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 24, 1918; 
                                        Hays
                                     to New, January 26, 1918, 
                                        Hays
                                     Papers.
                        
                           33 John T. Adams to Herbert Parsons, February 19, 1918,
                                    Parsons Papers; Garraty, Right-Hand Man, 369.
                        
                           34 Harry S. New to Will 
                                        Hays
                                    , January 26, 1918; Oscar E. Bland to 
                                        Hays
                                    , February 1, 1918, 
                                        Hays
                                     Papers.
                     
                             conditions…. I did incidentally
                            hear… that you were said to have approved the sinking of the Lusitania, or at least to have defended the Germans for so doing, and on other
                            occasions to have expressed very strong pro-German feelings. This information came to me at
                            second hand and I have paid no heed to it.35
                  
                    
            
            A member of Perkins' group sent a private investigator to 
                        Iowa
                     on a tip that Adams was "pro-German." 
                        Adams
                     and his family had gone to Germany before the war, and, on his return, after the
                    outbreak of the conflict in Europe, he had written news stories and letters in 
                        Iowa
                     papers recounting his own favorable impressions of the Germans and advocating
                    friendliness toward them. Although not all the details of 
                        Adams
                    ' pro-German stand were in Perkins' hands before the national
                    committee met, there was enough information to start rumors and to get Roosevelt to threaten the
                    vice chairman.36
                    
                        Adams
                    ' supporters had already complained that New had "bound volumes of the 
                        Dubuque
                     newspapers" in his office and was trying to find material to use against 
                        Adams
                     in 
                        Hays
                    ' favor. New simply denied that Hays had anything to do with it.37
            
            The implication of the threat to Adams was harsh. If the progressives or Roosevelt or New could
                    establish the vice chairman's "pro-German" stand as a public fact, it
                    would ruin 
                        Adams
                     and could possibly lose the 1918 election for the Republican party. Most Americans
                    during the war were extremely suspicious of anyone suspected of friendly feelings toward the
                    Germans, past or present. Roosevelt, among many others, had put his enormous national prestige
                    behind a crusade for "Americanism" in the war—a viciously intolerant
                    crusade against differences of opinion about the war—and most of America followed.
                    Loyalty to America, as defined by super patriots such as Roosevelt had become, was for all but the
                    very strongest of political leaders something a man seeking office had constantly to prove. Certain
                    defeat faced any politician accused on the basis of evidence such as Perkins and New had accumulated
                    against 
                        Adams
                    .
            Roosevelt was not eager to have 
                        Adams
                     as chairman of the party, since the latter had been closely associated with the men who
                    had blocked his nomination by the Republicans in 1916. Roosevelt grasped the opportunity to get rid
                    of 
                        Adams
                     without an open fight and to get a chairman who might be more sympathetic to his own
                    nomination in 1920.38 On February 6, Roosevelt sent John King, Republican boss
                    of Bridgeport, 
                        Connecticut
                    , and 
                  
                     35 Theodore Roosevelt to John T. Adams, February 5, 1918, Theodore
                            Roosevelt Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress.
                  
                     36 All of 
                                Adams
                            ' articles had been written in 1914 and 1915. Report of investigator,
                            undated, in folder of February, 1918, Perkins Papers; Ogden Reid to William R. Willcox,
                            February 6, 1918; Perkins to progressive leaders, February 16, 1918, Perkins Papers; Alice
                            Roosevelt Longworth, Crowded Hours (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 270–71.
                  
                     37 Harry S. New to Will 
                                Hays
                            , January 31, 1918, 
                                Hays
                             Papers.
                  
                     38 Adams was being supported by W. Murray Crane of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , who had been instrumental in blocking Roosevelt's nomination in 1916.
                            W. S. Bigelow to 
                                Henry
                             Cabot Lodge, June 20, 1916, Lodge Papers; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, February 12, 1918. It seems clear that Roosevelt's
                            decision to fight 
                                Adams
                             and help Hays was a last minute one, based on his enmity for 
                                Adams
                             and the possibility which the "pro- German" evidence gave for
                            getting rid of 
                                Adams
                            . Theodore Roosevelt to Governor James Goodrich, January 31, 1918, Roosevelt
                            Papers; Longworth, Crowded Hours, 270–71.
               
                     long time associate of both Roosevelt and old guard leaders who
                    were opposed to 
                        Adams
                    ' faction, to 
                        Hays
                     to help him win the election as chairman. If 
                        Hays
                     could not win, King was instructed to work with him to elect someone
                    else—but not to elect 
                        Adams
                    . King went to the 
                        St. Louis
                     meeting as Roosevelt's representative and also as 
                        Hays
                    '.39
            
            On February 7, Perkins gathered the Progressive party leaders still loyal to him on his private
                    railroad car in 
                        New York
                     and set off for the national committee meeting in 
                        St. Louis
                     to elect 
                        Hays
                     chairman of the national committee. Perkins went as the representative of Republican
                    progressives and, he thought, with Roosevelt's full backing and as his personal
                        representative.40
            
            Neither 
                        Hays
                     nor New went to 
                        St. Louis
                    . Perkins, King, Hert, and Governor Goodrich were to handle 
                        Hays
                    ' affairs. And 
                        Hays
                     could write that he was not taking "any hand in the 
                        St. Louis
                     matter at all—just letting it 'ramble.'" He did
                    not think "there is a thing in it," but he mentioned that "some of the
                    boys are going… just to see the show."41
            
            The show was brief, but impressive. On February 11, the day before the full national committee
                    convened, the executive committee met. Senator William Calder of 
                        New York
                    , representing the 
                        New York
                     national committee- man who was in the army in France, read 
                        Adams
                    ' "pro-German" letters and articles from the 
                        Iowa
                     papers to the executive committee in 
                        Adams
                    ' presence. "Needless to say," Galder reported, "it
                    caused a terrible shock." The men supporting 
                        Adams
                     on the committee, including Hemenway, "were so overwhelmed they could not
                    speak." 
                        Adams
                     himself "could not seem to understand that in view of the fact that we were at
                    war with Germany, his attitude previously rendered him unavailable."42
            
            Perkins had given Calder the information to present to the executive committee. With it, he had
                    recommended that Calder tell the full national committee that if 
                        Adams
                     did not drop out, Calder would denounce him and all who voted for him on the Senate
                    floor. Adams was also to resign as vice chairman. Whether or not Calder made the threat, Perkins was
                    able to report that Adams was "unquestionably eliminated" and that
                    "harmony and a satisfactory result" would be obtained in the national
                        committee.43
            
            When the full national committee met the next day, confusion was rife. According to the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune rumors had become public that Adams was going to withdraw from the race
                    for the chairmanship. These reports brought an outraged public denial from the vice chairman:
                    "Having failed 
                  
                     39 Theodore Roosevelt to Will 
                                Hays
                            , February 6, 1918, 
                                Hays
                             Papers; Roosevelt to John King, February 5, 1918, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     40 Perkins took with him Walter 
                                Brown
                            ; John Shaffer; progressive boss Alexander Moore of 
                                Pittsburgh
                            ; Frank Hitchcock, Taft's postmaster general and still a considerable
                            power in the old guard; and National Committeeman Hynicka of 
                                Ohio
                            . They were met in 
                                St. Louis
                             by A. T. Hert and R. B. Howell. George W. Perkins to Walter 
                                Brown
                            , February 6, 7, 1918; James R. Garfield to Perkins, February 6, 1918; Perkins
                            to Harold L. Ickes, February 5, 1918; Ickes to Perkins, February 6, 1918, Perkins Papers.
                  
                     41 Will 
                                Hays
                             to Charles A. Carlisle, February 8, 1918, 
                                Hays
                             Papers.
                  
                     42 George W. Perkins to progressive leaders, February 16, 1918;
                            Perkins to William A. White, February 21, 1918, Perkins Papers; William M. Calder to Herbert
                            Parsons, February 18, 1918, Parsons Papers; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, February 11, 1918.
                  
                     43 George W. Perkins to William M. Calder, February 12, 1918; Perkins
                            to John C. Shaffer, February 12, 1918, Perkins Papers.
               
                     in every other effort to dictate the organization of the
                    Republican Party," Adams said to reporters, "George W. Perkins has undertaken to
                    cast doubts upon my Americanism." Perkins made no public comment, but, the Tribune was careful to report: "the men closest to Colonel Roosevelt declined to
                    permit Perkins to speak for them." Roosevelt had no intention of publicly alienating 
                        Adams
                     or anyone in the regular organization.44
            
            Perkins was also attacked by the one other Bull Moose leader at the meeting. Ickes was disturbed at
                    Perkins' busy negotiations. He was trying to get a chairman who was satisfactory to himself
                    and, so far as Ickes knew, to Roosevelt. But he seemed to be making no effort to get any power for
                    the progressives, either on the national committee or anywhere else in the Republican organization.
                    When the executive committee initially voted to continue the old campaign advisory committee of
                    1916, it became obvious to Ickes that the progressives were scheduled to remain powerless advisors.
            Ickes held a news conference and demanded "actual, not ornamental" recognition for
                    the progressives. He said that the progressives of the west, whom he represented, were quite willing
                    to "enter an amalgamation" with the Republican party if the conditions of that
                    amalgamation were the disposal "simultaneously of… the old guard remnants and of
                    Perkins and the Progressive Party" headquarters group. Ickes doubted that such a deal would
                    be made, but he warned that the western progressives did not intend to accept less.45
            
            On February 13, the national committee met for the second day. By that time it had been made clear to 
                        Adams
                     that he was "unavailable" for the chairmanship. He nominated 
                        Hays
                    , who was elected. 
                        Adams
                     remained vice chairman of the national committee, and only the vaguest reasons for his
                    withdrawal from the contest for the chairmanship were reported in the press. But there was a price
                    for 
                        Adams
                    ' cooperation. He refused to withdraw from the race until he was assured by
                    "members of the Old Guard" that "George W. Perkins and his
                    fellow-Progressives would be eliminated from active participation in the councils of the Republican
                    Party." 
                        Adams
                     demanded that Hays be neutral about the 1920 nomination; that the national committee
                    elect the powerful executive committee of the party instead of allowing the chairman to appoint it,
                    as was usual; and finally that the national committee abolish the old campaign advisory committee on
                    which the progressives were scheduled to continue to sit. 
                        Hays
                     agreed to remain "neutral" about the 1920 nomination, and the
                    advisory committee was abolished. The appointment of a new executive committee, however, was left in 
                        Hays
                    ' hands. 
                        Adams
                     bowed to the inevitable, and Hays was elected without opposition.46
            
            Perkins, Roosevelt, New, and 
                        Hays
                     all got what they wanted from the 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, February 12, 1918.
                  
                     45
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, February 12, 1918; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, February 12, 1918.
                  
                     46 Walter F. Brown to James R. Garfield, February 18, 1918, James R.
                            Garfield Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress; George W. Perkins to E. A.
                            Van-Valkenberg, February 13, 1918; Perkins to progressive leaders, February 16, 1918,
                            Perkins Papers; Harold L. Ickes to Gifford Pinchot, February 18, 1918, Pinchot Papers; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, February 14, 1918; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, February 14, 1918.
               
                     national committee meeting: Perkins a demonstration of
                    progressive influence, Roosevelt a neutral chairman, New the election of 
                        Hays
                    , and 
                        Hays
                     the chairmanship. But the expense, for some of them, had been great. Perkins, for
                    instance, was virtually eliminated from politics.
            The morning after his election, Hays was warned by New that powerful old guard members of the Senate
                    had said that it would "not do to recognize George Perkins." Perkins received no
                    office, nor any public recognition, in the Republican organization from the new chairman. At the
                    same time Hays worked with Perkins privately and consulted him frequently about political matters.
                    Occasionally he did favors for Perkins. At Perkins' request he agreed, for example, shortly
                    after his election to prevent Ickes from getting any posts in the Republican organization.
                    Ickes' ultimate recognition as a valuable progressive Republican leader would have to come
                    from a Democratic president.47
            
            
               
                        Hays
                    ' election gave Roosevelt the occasion to get rid of Perkins. And Perkins gave
                    Roosevelt the excuse. Shortly after the battle for the chairmanship, Perkins, in a fury, sent an
                    article from a 
                        New York
                     paper to Roosevelt which said that King was Roosevelt's
                    "mouthpiece" and that Perkins had been eliminated. Perkins was vituperative about
                    King and demanded that Roosevelt not see him again. Roosevelt replied, from his hospital bed, quite
                    bluntly that "nobody is my mouthpiece" and that he would see anyone he wanted any
                    time he wanted. He made it clear to Perkins that he no longer represented him and that he was,
                    indeed, no longer needed at all.48
            
            This was, for Roosevelt, the final act of cutting free of the Progressive party he had created. He
                    had made sure, in the years between 1914 and 1918, that the Bull Moose had died and that most of its
                    membership had returned to the Republican party. He had vigorously renewed his old friendships among
                    the regular Republican leaders. He had avoided contact with the western progressive group and denied
                    it any encouragement for a battle with the old guard or any sort of demonstration of progressive
                    strength and unity. He had, by using King and Perkins, obtained the election of a Republican
                    national chairman who was not inimical to his nomination to the presidency, without alienating the
                    old guard leaders.49 Now he got rid of Perkins, who had alienated the old guard.
                    It is ironic that this act of preparation for the 1920 Republican nomination was performed from a
                    hospital bed. Although he recovered and left the hospital on this occasion, a year later, in
                    January, 1919, he again entered the hospital, where, quite unexpectedly (he delighted in doing the
                    unexpected) he died.
            
               
                        Hays
                    ' election, combined with Perkins' elimination and
                    Roosevelt's efforts 
                  
                     47 Harry S. New to Will 
                                Hays
                            , February 14, 1918, 
                                Hays
                             Papers; 
                                Hays
                             to George Perkins, February 13, 1918; John W. McGrath to Perkins, February,
                            1918; John G. Shaffer to Perkins, February, 1918; Perkins to 
                                Chester
                             Rowell, February 19, 1918, Perkins Papers; 
                                Hays
                            , Memoirs, 158–59.
                  
                     48 George W. Perkins to Theodore Roosevelt, February 18, 1918; Perkins
                            to Walter F. Brown, February 18, 1918; Perkins to Will 
                                Hays
                            , February 18, 1918; Roosevelt to Perkins, February 18, 1918, Perkins Papers; 
                                New York
                            
                            World, February 18, 1918.
                  
                     49 Harbaugh, Theodore Roosevelt, 455–93;
                            Mowry, Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive Movement, 320–81;
                            Robertson, "The Progressives in National Republican Politics,"
                            15–51.
               
                     to gain the 1920 Republican nomination, left the western
                    progressives particularly isolated. It had been the war and "Americanism" and the
                    issue of 
                        Adams
                    ' loyalty that had defeated the old guard, not any strength the progressives
                    had. "The old guard would have elected 
                        Adams
                    ," one of them wrote, "had the Progressives not proven that he had
                    pro-German views." The Republican national committee was still "decidedly
                    reactionary." The progressives, now that the campaign advisory committee was done away
                    with, had no voice in Republican affairs at all. It was clear that the old guard would try to remove 
                        Hays
                     as soon as they possibly could; then nothing would have been gained by the progressives
                    at all.50 In 1921, when 
                        Hays
                     resigned to become Harding's postmaster general, Adams was elected Republican
                    national chairman.
            
               
                        Hays
                    ' election obscured the issues between the progressives and the old guard and
                    paved the way for new issues and new leaders in the Republican party in the twenties. 
                        Hays
                    ' techniques of working quietly behind the scenes, favoring no particular group
                    but trying to work with all, and organizing all factions on a large and public scale to work for
                    election victories for the Republican party made the obscurity thicker. He was neither progressive
                    nor old guard. He was indeed the man Perkins had specified, who could "harmonize"
                    and "organize." His work was cut out for him. He had the congressional campaign of
                    1918 to organize, and then the massive preparations necessary for the presidential campaign of 1920.
                    Prevented by the national committee from placing progressives on a campaign advisory committee, he
                    brought more than a hundred prominent progressive and regular leaders into harmony by having them
                    work together on a huge platform advisory committee prior to the 1920 convention. The Republican
                    party won control of the Congress in November, 1918, and Harding won the presidency by a landslide
                    in 1920—ample justification for the election of 
                        Hays
                    .51
            
            After his election, 
                        Hays
                    , still in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was deluged with congratulations, advice, and requests for positions. His first move
                    was to go "east" to 
                        Washington
                     to confer with all the prominent Republican leaders, both progressive and regular.
                    Ignoring Roosevelt's request that he tell only Roosevelt and King when he was coming, he
                    went publicly and openly to be feted in 
                        Washington
                     and to be accepted enthusiastically by virtually all the factions in the Republican
                        party.52 It must have been a relief, as New wrote to him "now that
                    all the… complications are out of the way," to go to 
                        Washington
                     "without disguises—right into the 
                        Union
                     Depot for that matter," leaving his "false whiskers" and his
                    "'Ham Lewis' wig" in Indiana.53
            
            
               
                  50 O. H. P. Shelley to George W. Perkins, February 21, 1918, Perkins
                        Papers.
               
                  51
                        
                            Hays
                        ' activities in the 1918 campaign are well covered in Seward W. Livermore,
                            Politics Is Adjourned: Woodrow Wilson and the War Congress,
                            1916–1918 (
                            Middletown
                        , Conn., 1966), 106 ff.; his activities in 1920 are discussed in Wesley M. Bagby,
                            The Road to Normalcy: The Presidential Campaign and Election of 1920 (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1962).
               
                  52 Harry S. New to Will 
                            Hays
                        , February 14, 1918; Fred H. Lysons to 
                            Hays
                        , February 14, 1918; Theodore Roosevelt to 
                            Hays
                        , February 16, 1918, 
                            Hays
                         Papers; Hiram W. Johnson to Meyer Lissner, March 15, 1918, Hiram W. Johnson Papers,
                        Bancroft Library, University of 
                            California
                        , Berkeley; John W. Weeks to George W. Perkins, February 20, 1918, Perkins Papers;
                        Harold L. Ickes to Gifford Pinchot, February 18, 1918. Pinchot Papers; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, March 2, 1918.
               
                  53 Harry S. New to Will 
                            Hays
                        , February 14, 1918, 
                            Hays
                         Papers.
            
         
         
         
            The New Indiana State Museum
            
                    Donald F. Carmony
                
            The formal opening of the new Indiana State Museum in the former 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hall in January, 1967, was a significant and promising milestone in Indiana museum
                    history. This event concluded a long delayed and much overdue effort to develop a museum which could
                    become important in reminding Hoosiers of their heritage from and obligations to past generations.
                    In 1869 the Indiana General Assembly enacted a law which provided "for the collection and
                    preservation of a Geological and Mineralogical Cabinet of the Natural History of this
                    State…." This enactment established a Department of Geology and Natural Science
                    under the control of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture. The department was placed in charge of
                    a state geologist to be appointed by the governor for a two-year term at a salary of
                    $1,800 annually. In addition to his duty "to complete a thorough geological
                    survey of the whole State as soon as consistent with his other duties…," he was
                    enjoined "to collect, properly label, and arrange in agricultural rooms, specimens of the
                    ores, coals, building stones, clays, soils, and organic remains; quadrupeds, birds, reptiles,
                    fishes, Crustacea, molusca [sic], insects and all other objects of natural history
                    peculiar to the State, and as far as practicable, of other states and countries also."1
            
            Subsequent to this legislation, a museum was established in the old state capitol. It apparently
                    remained under the direction of the state geologist until 1945 when the Division of Geology (now the
                    Geological Survey) was moved from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to quarters on the campus of Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . At this time the museum was transferred to the Division of State Parks which, like the
                    office of the state geologist, had been a unit within the Indiana Department of Conservation since
                    1919. The museum has remained in the Division of State Parks since 1945.
            Between the 1870's and the 1940's the museum experienced many vicissitudes. The
                    early material which found its way into the museum's collections was principally geological
                    in nature, but as the decades passed an increasing number of Civil War souvenirs and miscellaneous
                    items were added. The museum seems to have been located in the capitol during these years, first in
                    the building erected in the 1830's and then in the present capitol which was completed in
                    the 1880's. For many years it was situated on the third floor; but about 1919, when the
                    Indiana Department of Conservation was established, it was moved to the basement. As the decades
                    passed, inadequate attention was given to the protection and preservation of items with the result
                    that numerous specimens disappeared or became unusable. The location in the basement of the capitol
                    after 1919 was particularly unattractive, dingy, and conducive to vandalism. Despite its rather
                    noble beginnings with 
                  
                     1 Indiana, Laws (1869), 22–24.
               
                     emphasis on geological specimens, the museum had become a
                    neglected step child of state government.2
            
            The geological emphasis remained basic as regards content of the museum's collections. In
                    1880 an official report indicated that there was then a total of 20,551 "specimens of every
                    description in the State Museum…," including thousands of "fossils,
                    shells, corals and crinoids…." Of these items, 2,040 were classified as Lower
                    Silurian; 1,550 as Devonian; 1,460 as Lower Carboniferous; 1,395 as Upper Silurian; and 919 as
                    Carboniferous. There were 505 "Arrow points, spears, etc."; 504 land and fresh
                    water shells; 300 "Minerals, including lithological specimens"; and 186
                    "Natural history specimens in alcohol—Jars, etc." Miscellaneous items
                    included relics from mound-builders, perforated shell and slate ornaments, pipes, hand axes or
                    fleshers, copper beads and fragments of copper, hammer and anvil stones, fishing sinkers, Peruvian
                    water jugs, and an elephant's tooth. Roughly 2,000 items were unclassified, having come
                    from four individuals or from surveys in 
                        Monroe
                     and 
                        Putnam
                     counties.3
            
            After decades of neglect, important steps were taken toward establishment of a new and modern state
                    museum during the administration of Governor Ralph F. Gates, 1945–1949. Governor Gates
                    and 
                        Milton
                     Matter, director of the Indiana Department of Conservation, added staff members to the
                    Division of State Parks who were knowledgeable regarding the establishment and operation of
                        museums.4 Under the direction of Governor Gates and Director Matter
                    information was assembled about museums, studies were made of possible sites for a museum building,
                    and drawings were made for a proposed building to be erected on the north side of 
                        Ohio
                     Street across from the Indiana State Library and Historical Building. Despite these
                    significant steps and related efforts, the museum remained in its dingy, dirty, and undesirable
                    quarters in the basement of the capitol. Nevertheless, though unable to overcome decades of neglect,
                    the Gates administration pointed the way toward augmented support and improved housing for the state
                    museum.
            As the functions and personnel of state government rapidly expanded during the 1940's and
                    1950's, space for offices became increasingly acute. As a consequence a new State Office
                    Building was constructed and occupied during 1960 and early 1961. While this construction was in
                    progress, the museum's collections—by then largely a hodgepodge of this and
                    that—were temporarily placed in storage along with other material which had not been
                    displayed, in part for lack of space.
            
               
                  2 The writer is indebted to Robert D. Starrett, director of the Indiana
                        State Museum, for much of the information in this and the preceding paragraphs. The same is true
                        for much of the information about museum efforts and development from the Gates administration
                        to the present.
               
                  3 Indiana, Second Annual Report of the Department of
                            Statistics and Geology (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1880), 34–35.
               
                  4 Henry C. Prange was appointed as engineer, Zach Sanderson as museum
                        curator. Robert D. Starrett soon succeeded Sanderson.
            
            
            Discussion and planning for the new State Office Building inevitably raised the questions of what
                    would happen to the museum's holdings. Early in the administration of Governor Harold W.
                    Handley, 1957–1961, the legislature authorized a commission to examine the state museum,
                    inquire into museum programs in other states, and make "recommendations regarding the
                    future program and development of the Indiana State Museum" to the ensuing General
                        Assembly.5 This commission held its initial meeting in the fall of 1957 and
                    submitted its findings a year later. It recommended construction of a museum building on the site
                    originally proposed by the Gates administration. The commission reported that its members had
                    "been forced to the reluctant conclusion that Indiana has the poorest and most inadequate
                    State Museum in the United States."6 This report, for the moment at
                    least, was largely ignored. In 1960 a considerable amount of museum material was returned to a new
                    location in the basement of the capitol. Although this area was spruced up and better lighted than
                    that previously used, it was inappropriate and inadequate. In 1958 the Indiana State Museum Study
                    Commission had "unanimously concluded that, even if additional space should later become
                    available in the present Capitol building, it would be impossible either to develop or maintain an
                    effective museum program in such unsatisfactory quarters."7
            
            The steps which resulted in the formal opening of the new Indiana State Museum in 1967 were commenced
                    during the administration of Governor Matthew E. Welsh, 1961–1965. Donald E. Foltz,
                    director of the Indiana Department of Conservation, was much interested in developing an appropriate
                    museum for the Hoosier State. With the approval and support of Governor Welsh, Director Foltz and
                    the staff of the Division of State Parks explored various possibilities. About this time, 1962, the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hall became vacant as city offices were transferred to the new City-County Building.
                    Studies were made of 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hall as a possible location for a museum. In November, 1963, the building was leased
                    for a nominal sum for museum purposes. This building—of classic Greek Ionic
                    design—was constructed of Indiana limestone and had been completed about 1911. Governor
                    Welsh and Director Foltz expressed the hope that the new museum could be opened in 1966 as a
                    contribution to Indiana's sesquicentennial of statehood.
            The further efforts required to adapt 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hall to museum use were carried forward by Governor Roger D. Branigin, who took office
                    in 1965, and John E. Mitchell, director of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Both
                    Governor Branigin and Director 
                        Mitchell
                     exhibited much interest in matters pertaining to the new state museum. The immediate
                        
                  
                     5 Indiana, Laws (1957), 202–203.
                  
                     6 "Report of Study Commission, Indiana State
                            Museum," Indiana History Bulletin, XXXV (November, 1958), 159.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 157.
               
                     responsibility for these efforts—both under the
                    Welsh and Branigin administrations—however, rested with Robert D. Starrett. Although the
                    museum was not formally opened until January, 1967, some attractive educational exhibits were
                    displayed as a contribution to the Indiana sesquicentennial in 1966. These initial exhibits
                    emphasized Indiana art, especially the paintings of Theodore C. Steele. Such an emphasis resulted
                    from the efforts of Governor Branigin, who arranged for the purchase of about forty paintings by
                    eight Indiana artists who portrayed the Indiana scene. Museum officials are hopeful that this
                    Indiana art collection will grow to become one of outstanding significance.
            The new Indiana State Museum is far from finished. In a very real sense such a museum is never
                    completed, for additional material constantly becomes available and exhibits must be changed from
                    time to time. Director Starrett has wisely emphasized that education is the basic function of the
                    museum but to realize this goal collections must first be assembled and "properly cared for
                    if they are to be of any use." To achieve its objectives the museum must collect and
                    preserve materials, do research, exhibit items, and interpret its collections.8
                    Given a few more decades and continued personal interest of state officials; generous support for
                    staff, facilities, and acquisitions; freedom from partisan interference along with freedom to plan
                    and develop holdings and exhibits in a thoughtful manner; and the understanding and support of
                    Hoosiers generally, the Indiana State Museum can and should become of outstanding importance in
                    educational programs concerning Indiana's heritage.
            The Indiana State Museum has already developed interestingly displayed exhibits concerning Indiana
                    art, politics, natural history, geology, and Indians. The pictures which follow illustrate the
                    museum building and these varied exhibits. The photographs, taken by Philip 
                        Van
                     Blaricum and Ken Williams, were provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
                    Resources. Director Starrett collected the pictures and supplied the captions.
            
               
                  8 Robert D. Starrett, "The Indiana State Museum Moves
                        Ahead," Outdoor Indiana, VII (January, 1964),
                    19–20.
            
            
            
               INDIANA STATE MUSEUM (FORMERLY INDIANAPOLIS CITY HALL)
            
            
            
               COMPASS ROSE (ORIGINAL MARBLE MOSAIC, FIRST FLOOR INDIANA MUSEUM BUILDING), PRIME REASON FOR
                        CONSTRUCTION OF FOUCAULT PENDULUM.
            
            
            
               POLITICAL EXHIBIT. 1876 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
            
            
            
               POLITICAL EXHIBIT. 1916 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
            
            
            
               INDIANA GEOLOGICAL EXHIBIT
            
            
            
               INDIANA BIRDLIFE (HABITAT GROUP): WATER BIRDS.
            
            
            
               INDIANA INDIANS (DECORATIVE CLOTHING, CRADLE BOARD). PAINTING IS AN ORIGINAL BY GEORGE
                    WINTER.
            
            
            
               INDIANA INDIANS (DECORATIVE BEADWORK).
            
            
            
               GENERAL VIEW OF ART GALLERY (DISPLAYING WORKS OF 13 INDIANA ARTISTS).
            
            
            
               "SUSAN THOMPKINS BROWN" (OIL PAINTING), BY JACOB Cox.
            
            
            
               "PEACH AND PLUM BLOOM" (WOOD BLOCK PRINT), BY GUSTAVE BAUMANN.
            
            
            
               MURALS BY THEODORE C. STEELE. SPECIAL EXHIBIT LOANED BY MARION COUNTY GENERAL HOSPITAL; ARRANGED
                        BY ST. MARGARET'S HOSPITAL GUILD.
            
            
            
               "SPRING" (MURAL), BY THEODORE C. STELE, LOANED BY MARION COUNTY GENERAL
                        HOSPITAL
            
            
            
               "SUMMER" (MURAL), BY THEODORE C. STEELE. LOANE BY MARION COUNTY GENERAL
                        HOSPITAL
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana Museum Society
            
                    Gene E. McCormick
                    ∗
                
            The Indiana Museum Society was organized in April, 1967, to promote the development of the Indiana
                    State Museum for the benefit of the public. Certain members of the Junior League of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who cataloged the state collection as part of Indiana's sesquicentennial
                    observance of 1966, became acutely aware of serious gaps in the collection and initiated an
                    organization of private citizens to seek donations for it and at the same time to encourage broader
                    use of the museum. The society thus is a direct outgrowth of the Indiana sesquicentennial.
            Founders of the Indiana Museum Society realized that the state museum could be nurtured only if there
                    was concerted, statewide effort to undertake mutual exchanges of ideas, services, and exhibits with
                    other museums—local or metropolitan, private or public, specialized or general.
                    Accordingly, membership for the Indiana Museum Society is sought not just from 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Marion County
                     but from throughout the state. It is hoped that in time a regional structure will be
                    set up so that museum activities at the local level can be further cultivated and the benefit of
                    local activities can in turn be made available to other parts of the state. The society hopes to
                    initiate a variety of programs to promote Indiana history. Programs under consideration include:
                    identifying and cataloging museum collections, methods of acquisition, exhibit development and
                    exchange, field trips, and museum training. Historical societies, educational groups, professional
                    and trade associations, and secondary and collegiate institutions will be asked to assist
                    implementation of these curatorial and educational functions.
            The immediate focus of the society, however, is the Indiana State Museum collection, which has a long
                    way to go before its bodies of natural and cultural history can in a select and meaningful way
                    represent evidence of the past. From experience in collecting materials for the state museum, the
                    society will be better qualified to offer services to others and in turn to understand local
                    problems in promoting the full spectrum of preservation.
            If the long standing disrepute of neglect which has severely limited public interest in the state
                    collection is to be overcome, the society is obliged to establish itself as an effective voice; and
                    this it has sought since its inception. So that there can be direct and continuing dialogue with
                    officials of the state administration, representatives of state governmen have been appointed to the
                    board of directors of the society in an ex officio capacity, with members of the Indiana Natural
                    Resources Commission and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources occupying five of the present
                    twenty chairs. Robert D. Starrett, director of the Indiana State Museum, also serves as executive
                        
                  
                     ∗ Gene E. McCormick is the first president of the Indiana
                            Museum Society and corporate historian of Eli Lilly and Company.
               
                     secretary to the society. The museum does have excellent
                    physical facilities and, more importantly, a qualified staff who can make full use of those
                    facilities. Altogether, the society has a sound base upon which to rest its operations.
            Not until 137 years after the founding of the Indiana Historical Society was a group organized along
                    similar lines to foster Indiana's cultural and natural history through the museum function.
                    It has now been done, however, and preservation of tangible evidence of the Hoosier past is being
                    sought— whatever its scope or quality—because a record of our existence is
                    needed. As Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes is reputed to, have commented, "Continuity with
                    the past is not a duty, it is only a necessity."
            Those interested in participating in the Indiana Museum Society may receive further information from:
                        
                        Robert D. Starrett, Executive Secretary
                        Indiana Museum Society
                        202 N. Alabama Street
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana 46204.
                    
            
            Membership runs with the calendar year and is of the following classes: Regular (family or
                    individual), $3.00; Contributing, $15.00; Sponsoring, $100.00; Club
                    or Organization, $20.00 or more; Lifetime, $200.00. Make checks payable to
                    Indiana Museum Society, Inc. Application and check should be mailed to: 
                        Treasurer
                        Indiana Museum Society, Inc.
                        202 N. Alabama Street
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana 46204.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Guide to the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project: Part II
            
                    Compiled by Thomas Krasean
                
            During Indiana's Sesquicentennial celebration the Indiana State Library conducted and
                    administered a statewide search for manuscripts relating to the state's 150 years of
                    historical development. Through this program, known as the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript
                    Project, manuscripts were collected, and xerox or microfilm copies of them were distributed to a
                    number of libraries within the state. In June, 1968, the Indiana Magazine of
                    History began publication of a guide to the collected manuscripts, as compiled by Thomas
                    Krasean, director of the project. Part I of the guide included entries in the categories of account
                    books; business records; church records; county and local history; diaries and journals; early
                    county records and documents; and part of the section on letters, papers, and documents. Following
                    is the concluding portion of the guide. Entries include the remainder of letters, papers, and
                    documents; military records; organizational minutes; reminiscences and memoirs; sermons, speeches,
                    and lectures; and miscellaneous.
            An explanation of the entries follows. The first section in each entry contains the name of the
                    person, family, or place under which the entry is catalogued; next is the entry title or heading,
                    the inclusive dates of the item or n.d. (no date), the number of items, and the number of pages in
                    the item. The second section describes the scope and content of the item and gives the county
                    discussed in the item. The third section indicates the name of the contributor or the location of
                    the original. In the fourth section, identifying numbers assigned by the project are given: the
                    manuscript project number, preceded by (X) for xerox or (M) for microfilm (or, for example, M-2, to
                    indicate the second entry on a microfilm reel). The final number, the MS number, indicates how
                    entries may be found in the index to the guide, which has been separately prepared and deposited
                    with each of the cooperating libraries. For a more complete description of the Sesquicentennial
                    Manuscript Project as well as the initial portion of the guide see, Thomas Krasean, (comp.),
                    "Guide to the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project: Part I," Indiana Magazine of History, LXIV (June, 1968), 113–48.
            VII. Letters, Papers, and Documents (continued)
            
               
                        
                     
                                Henry
                            , Jacob; papers, 1864-1865; 25 items, 87 pp.
                        Very descriptive letters of a member of Company E, 22nd Infantry, Indiana Volunteers, in
                            which 
                                Henry
                             describes his experiences with Sherman on the march to the sea. He tells of
                            foraging, skirmishes, marches through swamps and across rivers, camp life around Savannah,
                            and later marches to 
                                North Carolina
                            . Henry was from 
                                Vanderburg County
                            .
                        Mrs. Raymond Huebner, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 133; MS-177
                    
               
               
                        High, Anson; papers, 1862; 3 items, 9 pp.
                        Civil War letters of a member of Company D, 86th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Warren County
                            . High wrote news of a general nature commenting briefly on health, concern for
                            crops at home, and other topics.
                        Walter B. Gillespie, Williamport.
                        (X) 107; MS-178
                    
               
                        Irons, John; papers, 1864; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        In answer to a request by Dr. Levi Ritter, Irons sends him a brief autobiography. Irons was
                            clerk for 
                                Hendricks County
                             in the early 1850's.
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (X) 24; MS-179
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Jennings County
                             Public Library; papers, 1915–1920; 24 items, 28 pp.
                        Miscellaneous papers and correspondence concerning the appropriation of Carnegie funds to
                            build a public library. Rules, regulations, costs, and other items are noted. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        In 
                                Jennings County
                             Public Library, 
                                North Vernon
                            .
                        (M-13) 149, Reel #1; MS-180
                    
               
                        Kern, John W.; papers, 1900–1917; 7 items, 14 pp.
                        Letters of a political nature from Senator Kern to Isaac R. Strouse of 
                                Terre Haute
                            . Most of the letters were written from 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., and one particular letter contains Kern's opinions of the
                            candidates who were running for the presidency in 1904.
                        Mrs. Claude Ott, 
                                Rockville
                            .
                        (X) 25; MS-181
                    
               
                        Kestner, Elmer; papers, 1911–1944; 10 items, 12 pp.
                        Family letters including correspondence between Kestner and the United States Military
                            Academy concerning possible appointment. 
                                Jackson County
                            .
                        Mrs. Ina Kestner, Brownstown.
                        (X) 37; MS-182
                    
               
               
                        Lawyer, George; papers, 1864; 1 item, 1 p.
                        Civil War letter written to James and Martha Barnett from a 
                                Washington County
                             soldier and member of Company H, 58th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Lawyer
                            comments that the reelection of 
                                Lincoln
                             would prolong the war "another three years."
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-12) 121; MS-183; see also MS-129
                    
               
                        Lewis, Thomas S.; papers, 1861–1863; 18 items, 53 pp.
                        Civil War letters of a member of Company A, 38th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Orange County
                            . They contain comments of a general nature such as concern for family and
                            crops, brief mention of fighting, and "not much news to tell."
                        Mrs. Kenneth McAninch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 135; MS-184; see also MS-163
                    
               
                        Lindley, 
                                Owen
                            ; papers, [1844 ?]; 7 items, 17 pp.
                        Letters written to Lindley by Elvina Moon who later became his wife. Written in the 
                                Quaker
                             dialect, the letters tell of conditions around 
                                Mooresville
                            , Indiana, in the mid-1840's. 
                                Morgan County
                            .
                        Mrs. Rebecca Hardin, 
                                Mooresville
                            .
                        (X) 137; MS-185
                    
               
                        Mabrey, Benjamin; papers, 1862–1865; 25 items, 39 pp., typed.
                        A member of Company K, 82nd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Mabrey describes in detail his experiences in the war. All aspects of the war
                            are covered including several engagements, marches, battlefield scenes, and general camp
                            life.
                        In the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 97; MS-186
                    
               
                        Magill, Martha and William; papers, 1863; 4 items, 15 pp.
                        Letters of John A. Pool and John W. Vaught both of Company I, 70th Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers, from 
                                Johnson County
                            , to William and Martha Magill. They describe briefly the general conditions of
                            the war.
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 141; MS-187
                    
               
               
                        Marquis, James; papers, 1863–1864; 5 items, 7 pp., typed.
                        Marquis was a member of Company F, 7th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Marion County
                            . His letters describe general war scenes including a man shot for deserting,
                            several engagements, and camp life.
                        Mrs. Helen Kehl, Chino, 
                                California
                            .
                        (M-8) 114; MS-188
                    
               
                        Marsh, Daniel; papers, 1834; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        A letter written by Marsh to relatives in which he tells of the coming of the railroad and
                            the first railroad car through 
                                Shelbyville
                            , Indiana. 
                                Shelby County
                            .
                        (M-15) 149, Reel #1; MS-189
                    
               
                        Marshall Family; papers, 1816–1849; 15 items, 15 pp., typed.
                        Letters to James, William, John, and Katherine 
                                Marshall
                             from relatives in the South. Information on economic conditions in 
                                Virginia
                             with some reference to Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-190
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Martin
                            , Rex; papers, 1916–1920; 12 items, 45 pp.
                        Letters written to his sister Mary 
                                Martin
                             while he was a student at Purdue University. Interesting comments on the
                            political feelings of college students prior to World War I. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Mrs. Mary Martin Kay, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-11) 149, Reel #1; MS-191
                    
               
                        Mattox, Nathaniel Shrewsbury; papers, 1890; 2 items, 16 pp., typed.
                        An exchange of letters between Mattox and the Reverend J. W. Richardson concerning their
                            differences of opinion regarding the doctrines of the Baptist faith. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Mrs. Anna Harvey, Hardinsburg.
                        (M-10) 121; MS-192; see also MS-193
                    
               
               
                        Mattox, William R.; papers, 1902–1903; 4 items, 42 pp.
                        An exchange of lengthy and detailed letters between Mattox and his Uncle Nathaniel S. Mattox
                            concerning their differences of opinion over religious doctrine in the Baptist church. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Mrs. Anna Harvey, Hardinsburg.
                        (X) 129; MS-193; see also MS-192
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Dennis; papers, 1940–1942; 27 items, 70 pp.
                        World War II letters written while stationed at various United States bases and in the Canal
                            Zone. Interesting for their information on what army life was like away from the war front.
                            Mitchell was from 
                                Hendricks County
                            .
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (M-6) 149, Reel #2; MS-194.
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , George; papers, 1942–1945; 18 items, 45 pp.
                        Letters written by a 
                                Hendricks County
                             soldier serving in World War II. Comments on basic training and early days in
                            the army. Also includes later observations on conditions and events in the European war
                            front.
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (M-8) 149, Reel #1; MS-195
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Kenneth; papers, 1916–1924; 5 items, 16 pp.
                        Letters written to parents and relatives in 
                                Hendricks County
                             while a student at Haverford College in Pennsylvania. Comments on social and
                            political happenings of the day.
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (M-7) 149, Reel #1; MS-196
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Origen; papers, 1862; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Letter written by Mitchell, a member of Company A, 13th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, while
                            recovering from wounds received in battle. Confined to the hospital at Suffolk, 
                                Virginia
                            , he tells of treatment, medicines, and a strong desire to be home again. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        Mrs. Roger Burch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-4) 106; MS-197; see also MS-87
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Perley; papers, 1813–1877; 157 items, 237 pp., transcribed.
                        Letters covering a rather lengthy span of history containing bits and pieces of economic,
                            social, and political resource information. 
                                Hendricks County
                            .
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (M-21) 121; MS-198
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , William; papers, 1890–1892; 11 items, 28 pp.
                        Letters from 
                                Mitchell
                             to his children. He comments mostly on family news but includes information on
                            economic conditions in north central Indiana. 
                                Howard County
                            .
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (X) 24; MS-199
                    
               
                        Mock, John; papers, 1842; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Inventory of the estate of John Mock. 
                                Rush County
                            .
                        Scott M. Hosier, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 29; MS-200
                    
               
                        Moore, Peter; papers, 1865; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Letter of a soldier from 
                                Tipton County
                             and a member of Company K, 153rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Moore writes to
                            his wife telling her of the "government bounty" of $8.00 for
                            herself and $2.00 for the children under 14.
                        In 
                                Tipton County
                             Library, 
                                Tipton
                            .
                        (X) 21; MS-201
                    
               
                        Moore, Samuel; papers, 1849–1859; 12 items, 12 pp.
                        Letters, receipts, and other personal papers of Moore, founder of 
                                Mooresville
                            , Indiana, 
                                Morgan County
                            .
                        Mrs. Rebecca Hardin, 
                                Mooresville
                            .
                        (M-23) 114; MS-202
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Morgan
                            , John Hunt; papers, 1863; 2 items, 2 pp.
                        A note written by General 
                                Morgan
                             stating that "protection from violence" is to be given to the
                            "Woolen Factory at 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana." Also a typed list of goods lost by Beckey and Son during 
                                Morgan
                            's Raid into southern Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 109; MS-203
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Noble
                            , Harriet; papers, 1875–1884; 25 items, 114 pp.
                        Letters of Miss 
                                Noble
                             to Albert Bushnell Hart while he was a student and later professor at 
                                Harvard
                            . Letters deal with events in the lives of the two with emphasis on their
                            interests and common likes and dislikes. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                        In 
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-17) 121; MS-204
                    
               
                        Nordhoff, Arthur; papers, 1817–1879; 27 items, 48 pp.
                        Civil War letters of Bardine Cavender, a member of Company H, 24th Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers. Also several miscellaneous documents and papers covering a variety of subjects. 
                                Dubois County
                            .
                        Arthur Nordhoff, 
                                Jasper
                            .
                        (X) 66; MS-205
                    
               
                        Nunemacher and Shaw; papers, 1859–1865; 59 items, 96 pp.
                        Business and personal letters of a New 
                                Albany
                             clothier regarding Civil War officers' uniforms. Letters comment on
                            type of cloth used, prices, and descriptions of various designs used. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        In New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-2-3) 94; MS-206
                    
               
                        Oaks, Kate B.; papers, 1864–1866; 3 items, 11 pp.
                        Letters written to relatives in Indiana from Miss Oaks who was living in 
                                Maryland
                             during the Civil War. Contains information about attitude of abolitionists,
                            movement of rebel troops, and a winter race with horse and sleigh.
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville,
                        (X) 126; MS-207
                    
               
               
                        Parsons, Benjamin, Amos, and George; papers, 1855–1898; 23 items, 38 pp.
                        A number of miscellaneous items including several receipts, documents, and one Civil War
                            letter of George Parsons a member of Company I, 57th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Parsons
                            tells of his experiences in Andersonville and includes a diagram of the prison. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        James P. Hartig, 
                                Hagerstown
                            .
                        (X) 17; MS-208
                    
               
                        Patterson, Samuel; papers, 1861–1862; 3 items, 8 pp.
                        As a member of Company B, 10th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Montgomery County
                            , Patterson writes of his experiences in the early stages of the war. He
                            comments on several small engagements, the fact that the war would not last long, and the
                            lack of money for postage.
                        Mrs. Bruce Haycock, Converse.
                        (X) 5; MS-209
                    
               
                        Payne, M. Arthur; papers, 1861–1865; 3 items, 7 pp.
                        Letters from Payne to his sisters and brothers containing family news with some comments of
                            local interest. Also a "Tribute of respect" written upon the death of a
                            relative. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        Mrs. M. Arthur Payne, New 
                                Albany
                            .
                        (X) 49; MS-210
                    
               
                        Pentelow, John; papers, 1864–1865; 10 items, 36 pp.
                        Civil War letters of a member of Company B, 9th 
                                Michigan
                             Cavalry, who later resided in Indiana. Pentelow comments on camp life and
                            morale, several engagements, and troop movements.
                        Clyde W. Pentelow, 
                                Plymouth
                            .
                        (X) 50; MS-211
                    
               
                        Phillips, 
                                Perry
                            ; papers, 1862–1864; 4 items, 16 pp.
                        Letters written to Phillips from Tilmon A. Jones of Company G, 125th Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers, and Allen W. Lamar of Company D, 65th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Both comment
                            on foraging, picket duty, and general war news. 
                                Warrick County
                            .
                        Mrs. Evelyn P. Strolin, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 82; MS-212
                    
               
               
                        Pittenger Family; papers, 1861–1872; 28 items, 84 pp.
                        Civil War and family letters written to Sally and Ellen Pittenger. War letters contain
                            information of general interest, and the family letters give a brief view of economic
                            conditions of the day. 
                                Delaware County
                            .
                        (M-2) 106; MS-213
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Porter
                            , John R; papers, 1816–1844; 34 items, 77 pp.
                        Letters written by Circuit Judge John Porter to his wife as he traveled throughout the state.
                            His comments are of a political, social, and economic interest. There are also several
                            letters written while he was in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., during the 1840's that are rich in political value. 
                                Vermillion County
                            .
                        Mrs. J. G. Clutterbuck, 
                                Newport
                            .
                        (X) 150; MS-214
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Posey
                            , John A.; papers, 1917–1923; 49 items, 151 pp.
                        Letters of general interest of a 
                                Spencer County
                             air force man who served in World War I. Posey was stationed for a time in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., and later served in France and elsewhere in Europe.
                        Miss Myrtle 
                        Posey, Rockport
                     .
                        (X) 60; MS-215
                    
               
                        Posson, Cornelius; papers, 1904; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        A letter from Posson to James Kelso of 
                                Vincennes
                             discussing the full price of heating the Kelso home with hot water heat. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                        Mrs. Carl E. Niemann, 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                        (M-17) 121; MS-216
                    
               
                        Records, William H.; papers, 1862–1904; 159 items, 247 pp.
                        A number of very descriptive letters from a member of Company I, 72nd Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers, from 
                                Tippecanoe County
                            . Records fought with Wilders' Lightning Brigade, and his comments give
                            a detailed story of this famous fighting outfit.
                        David Jordan, Fillmore.
                        (M) 54; MS-217; see also MS-95
                    
               
               
                        Reed, Erasmus W.; papers, 1861–1864; 54 items, 74 pp., typed.
                        Reed was a member of Company B, 96th Pennsylvania Regiment, who later moved to 
                                Elkhart County
                            . He comments with detailed observation on both the humor and horror of the war.
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 23; MS-218
                    
               
                        Reeder, Warren A.; papers, 1786-1875; 19 items, 23 pp.
                        A group of letters of prominent Hoosiers including Pierre Gibault (1786), William Henry
                            Harrison (1810), James B. Ray (1829), Noah 
                                Noble
                             (1832), Oliver P. Morton (1863), Horace C. Hovey (1858, 1867). Also several
                            letters to and from Mary 
                                Lincoln
                             following the death of President Lincoln (1865).
                        Warren A. Reeder, 
                                Hammond
                            .
                        (X) 90; MS-219; see also MS-220
                    
               
                        Reeder, Warren A.; papers, 1801-1867; 24 items, 66 pp.
                        A group of letters from prominent Hoosiers including Frances 
                                Vigo
                             (1810), William Henry Harrison (1801), Indiana legislature to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             (1864?), Lew Wallace (1851), Oliver P. Morton from Simon Cameron (1861), Robert
                            Dale 
                                Owen
                             (1861, 1862, 1863), Schuyler Colfax (1862), General James W. McMillan (1864),
                            John Bradley (1861).
                        Warren A. Reeder, 
                                Hammond
                            .
                        (M-19) 114; MS-220; see also MS-219
                    
               
                        Reid, William E.; papers, 1863; 1 item, 8 pp.
                        A letter from a 
                                Henry County
                             soldier who served as a musician with the 19th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers.
                            Reid comments on camp life and morale and attitude toward the home guard.
                        Frank E. Edwards, 
                                Knightstown
                            .
                        (X) 39; MS-221
                    
               
                        Ridenour, Rose E.; papers, 1861–1867; 9 items, 19 pp.
                        Civil War letters to Miss Ridenour from several friends including Henry C. Lutz and Elisha
                            Holycross both of Company F, 72nd Regiment,  Indiana
                            Volunteers, and David H. Holycross of Company H, 60th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Letters
                            contain general war news. 
                                Warren County
                            .
                        Mrs. Bertha Fleming, 
                                Williamsport
                            .
                        (X) 108; MS-222
                    
               
                        Rock, William H. H.; papers, 1865; 1 item, 3 pp.
                        Rock was a lieutenant in Company H, 147th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Hancock County
                            . He comments on hearing of the end of the conflict and the assassination of 
                                Lincoln
                            .
                        
                     
                                Hancock County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Greenfield
                            .
                        (M-13) 125, Reel #1; MS-223
                    
               
                        Rodman Family; papers, 1861–1864; 12 items, 31 pp.
                        Civil War letters of John F. Rodman, Company E, 53rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, and
                            Benjamin M. Rodman, Company C, 23rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Washington County
                            . Also letters of J. P. Kyle commenting on the election of 1864 and W. A. Kyle
                            describing Hartsville, 
                                Bartholomew County
                            , Indiana (1864).
                        Mrs. Myrtle E. Packwood, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3) 106; MS-224; see also MS-225
                    
               
                        Rodman Family; papers, 1862–1865; 4 items, 9 pp.
                        Letters written during the Civil War from John (Company E, 53rd Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers), William (Company C, 23rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers), and Benjamin (Company
                            C, 23rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers), Rodman to their parents and relatives. They tell of
                            camp life and morale and several small engagements. They were from 
                                Floyd
                             and 
                                Washington
                             counties.
                        Mrs. Myrtle E. Packwood, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 63; MS-225; see also MS-224
                    
               
                        Rodman Family; papers, 1951–1952; 12 items, 30 pp.
                        Korean War letters from Gareth and Marvin Rodman of 
                                Washington County
                            . They comment briefly on their experiences while at the front and forward
                            reserve areas. The Rodmans were from 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 109; MS-226
                    
               
               
                        Sackett, Homer E.; papers, 1939; l item, 12 pp.
                        A letter to Sackett's son, Henry R., in which he gives a brief autobiography of
                            himself. The elder Sackett was a judge of 
                                Lake County
                             Superior Court. 
                                Lake County
                            .
                        Henry R. Sackett, 
                                Gary
                            .
                        (M-26) 114; MS-227
                    
               
                        Severn, Thomas; papers, 1864; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        A member of a regimental band during the Civil War, Severn comments on hearing "the
                            Johnnies band playing across the field."
                        North Central High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 78; MS-228
                    
               
                        Shank, Edwin G.; papers, 1964; 6 items, 13 pp.
                        Letters and magazine articles of "Jerry" Shank, an air force pilot who was
                            killed in Vietnam. His letters speak of an underequipped fighting force in a "dirty
                            little war." Shank was from 
                                Pulaski County
                            .
                        Gerald Shank, Winamac.
                        (X) 139; MS-229
                    
               
                        Shields, M. R.; papers, 1948; 1 item, 3 pp.
                        A letter from 
                                Ohio
                             telling of the political situation prior to the election of 1848. The Whigs
                            "do not expect to carry the state for Taylor."
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 144; MS-230
                    
               
                        Shively, John M.; papers, 1841-1884; 13 items, 22 pp., typed.
                        Family letters of general interest. One contains an interesting and descriptive account of a
                            trip from Indiana to 
                                Oregon
                             in 1843. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-15) 114; MS-231
                    
               
               
                        Shrader, Philip; papers, 1837–1909; 103 items, 273 pp.
                        Extremely interesting and informative letters of a family in central Indiana. Correspondence
                            is from relatives living in various parts of Indiana and gives a fairly accurate picture of
                            the economic and social conditions of the day. 
                                Fayette County
                            .
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-3) 149, Reel #1; MS-232
                    
               
                        Smith, Hosea; papers, 1810–1823; 23 items, 18 pp., typed.
                        Letters from Smith written at White Oak Springs, 
                                Knox County
                            , to relatives in 
                                North Carolina
                            . The letters give a picture of southern Indiana before statehood and show what
                            conditions were like in the area during the War of 1812. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                        Mrs. Helen Ulen, 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                        (X) 3; MS-233
                    
               
                        Smith, Martha; papers, 1857–1863; 46 items, 154 pp.
                        Letters to and from Martha Smith from a number of relatives and friends. Civil War letters
                            are from Benjamin W. Smith (Company H, 99th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers), James McCalment
                            (9th Battery, Light Artillery, Indiana Volunteers), and William F. Adams (Company F, 11th
                            Regiment, Indiana Volunteers). They tell of general army morale and comment on several small
                            engagements. Family letters have some value on the economic conditions of the times. 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                        (M-5) 106; MS-234
                    
               
                        Storey, Darwin; papers, 1862–1865; 3 items, 12 pp.
                        Letters written to Storey from his brother Spencer Frederic (Company G, 111th 
                                Ohio
                            ), a cousin James M. Page (Company A, 6th 
                                Michigan
                             Cavalry), and also from the home front. The Page letter tells of the
                            assassination of 
                        Lincoln. Steuben County
                     .
                        Mrs. Ina Hubbell, Angola.
                        (X) 48; MS-235
                    
               
               
                        Stutz Family; papers, 1837–1900; 16 items, 26 pp.
                        Letters and papers of the Christian Stutz family of 
                                Middlebury
                            , Indiana. Also included are letters of Mary Defrees, David B. Mather, and
                            George S. Slayer. Some comment on the economic conditions of northern Indiana prior to the
                            Civil War. A fine broadside on the "fraud and corruption" in the 1856
                            national election. 
                                Elkhart County
                            .
                        Miss Caroline A. Stutz, 
                                Goshen
                            .
                        (X) 32; MS-236
                    
               
                        Trueblood, James; papers, 1839, 1862; 2 items, 4 pp.
                        One item contains field notes on a section of land in 
                                Washington County
                            . The other is a letter from Trueblood to A. A. McCrosky concerning the purchase
                            of a carriage and mare and comment on off-year elections. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 36; MS-237
                    
               
                        Truex, John; papers, 1861–1863; 36 items, 75 pp., typed.
                        Truex was a member of Company D, 82nd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Brown County
                            . The war and its experiences are seen through the eyes of a devoutly religious
                            young man. Truex died following wounds received at Murfreesboro in 1863.
                        Ernest E. Truex, 
                                Columbus
                            .
                        (M-7) 114; MS-238
                    
               
                        Vanderbilt, James C.; papers, 1861–1864; 129 items, 459 pp.
                        Vanderbilt was a member of Company K, 23rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Floyd County
                            . He leaves an accurate and detailed description of a wide variety of war
                            experiences and scenes. The 23rd fought in the campaigns around 
                                Shiloh
                            , Vicksburg, and throughout 
                                Mississippi
                            .
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-1) 94; MS-239
                    
               
               
                        Vaught, John W.; papers, 1863; 3 items, 12 pp.
                        Vaught was a member of Company I, 70th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Johnson County
                            . He comments briefly on general war news and concern for those at home.
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 141; MS-240
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana; papers, 1772–1827; 21 items, 76 pp.
                        A group of letters, papers, and other documents relating to 
                                Vincennes
                             in the early nineteenth century and before. Some material in French has been
                            translated. Contains an indenture of William Henry Harrison. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                        Tom Emison, 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                        (M-1) 106; MS-241
                    
               
                        Wahl, 
                                Henry
                            ; papers, 1945–1946; 21 items, 16 pp.
                        Letters of an army officer during World War II. Written from France and Germany, the letters
                            tell of the war and its effects on the economy and social structure of the two countries.
                            Wahl was from 
                                Monroe County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Henry
                             Wahl, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                        (M-5) 149, Reel #1; MS-242; see also MS-106
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                            ; papers, 1836–1926; 12 items, 45 pp.
                        Miscellaneous items including letters of Burr Banks, Civil War letters to Matilda Wright (2),
                            enlistments of county troops and amount of quota (1865), and letters of John Hay Farnham. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 101; MS-243
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                            ; papers, 1885–1947; 7 items, 22 pp.
                        Letters to W. W. Cogswell, 
                                Washington County
                             superintendent of schools, and a letter by Dr. Riley Shrum describing the
                            construction of the present courthouse in 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 92; MS-244; see also MS-148
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                            ; papers, 1851–1865; 6 items, 8 pp., typed.
                        Civil War letters of J. B. Cook, Wilfred Denton, George Cromer (2), and Ike [?]. Also a
                            letter to William Davis from John McElroy. Letters containing general news of war and local
                            interest. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-245
                    
               
                        Weston, Thomas; papers, 1862–1864; 5 items, 20 pp.
                        Weston was a member of Company F, 18th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Lawrence County
                            . He served in the 
                                New Orleans
                             area and comments on the number of foreigners in the city. He also spent some
                            time near Otterville, 
                                Missouri
                            .
                        
                     
                                Greenfield
                             Public Library.
                        (M-14) 125, Reel #1; MS-246; see also MS-248
                    
               
                        Whitmore, Susan W.; papers, 1842; 1 item, 2 pp., typed.
                        A letter of Susan Whitmore describing a of journey from Rocky Hill,
                            Connection, to 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                        Frances Insley, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 77; MS-247
                    
               
                        Wiley, Jerome; papers, 1861–1869; 19 items, 70 pp.
                        Letters written to Wiley from several soldiers in the Civil War including Thomas Weston
                            (Company F, 18th Regiment, Indiana Vol unteers), Alvin Wiley (Company I, 7th Indiana
                            Cavalry, 119th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers), and 
                                Spencer
                             Wiley (Company B, 37th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers). Letters comment on
                            several small engagements and other general war experiences.
                        
                     
                                Greenfield
                             Public Library.
                        (M-15-16) 125, Reel #1; MS-248; see also MS-246
                    
               
                        Williams, Lebert; papers, 1838–1863; 5 items, 5 pp., typed.
                        Civil War letters of David W. Voyles (assistant surgeon for the 66th Indiana), Jacob W.
                            Williams (Company F, 66th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers), and family letters of William
                            Graham and Frederick Hafley.  Letters show the economic
                            conditions in the South prior to the war. Soldiers' letters tell of camp life and
                            morale and concern for the butternuts back home.
                        Mrs. James Berkey, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 89; MS-249
                    
               
                        Williams, Rullus; papers, 1944–1946; 39 items, 100 pp.
                        Letters of a 
                                Washington County
                             sailor who was stationed in 
                                Hawaii
                             during World War II. Letters are for the most part of family interest but
                            contain some information of the influence of the war on the Hawaiian economy.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 69; MS-250
                    
               
                        Woodward, H. B.; papers, 1882–1884; 21 items, 86 pp.
                        Letters from Woodward to a relative, W. H. Brewer of 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. Woodward moved to 
                                Montana
                             and sent back letters describing the western country and general conditions.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 146; MS-251
                    
               
                        World War I letter; papers, 1916; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        A letter written by a soldier while stationed at McAllen, 
                                Texas
                            , in July, 1916. Contains a brief description of life as an officer on the base.
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-252
                    
               
                        [?], Benard; papers, 1880; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        A letter written from 
                                Iowa
                             to relatives in Indiana. The writer comments briefly on family news, illnesses,
                            and a problem with government land claims in 
                                Kansas
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-253
                    
            
            
            VIII. Military Records
            
               
                        80th Indiana Infantry; records, 1864–1865; 57 items, 103 pp.
                        Quartermaster reports of the 80th Indiana Infantry.
                        In 
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-1) 114; MS-254
                    
               
                        Kirk, John; records, 1852; 1 item, 1 p.
                        Military land warrant of forty acres deeded to John Kirk for his services in the United
                            States Army. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 143; MS-255
                    
               
                        Norcross, Orion R.; records, 1965; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        General orders awarding a Commendation Medal for meritorious service to Norcross who served
                            in the Indiana National Guard from 1895 to 1955. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-256
                    
               
                        Williams, Thomas; records, 1866–1920; 4 items, 4 pp.
                        Letters, documents, and receipts concerning the payment of a Civil War soldier's
                            pension claimed by his wife. 
                                Hancock County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Greenfield
                             Public Library.
                        (M-5) 125, Reel #1; MS-257
                    
            
            IX. Organizational Minutes
            
               
                        Agricultural Society, 
                                Fayette County
                            ; minutes, 1851-1862; 1 vol., 304 pp.
                        Constitution and minutes of meetings of the 
                                Fayette County
                             Agricultural Society. Also contains a brief diary near end of minute book
                            (1890–1895). 
                                Fayette County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-11) 147; MS-258
                    
               
               
                        American Red Cross, 
                                Blackford County
                            ; minutes, 1943–1951; 1 vol., 91 pp.
                        Minutes of the executive committee of the 
                                Blackford County
                             Red Cross organization. 
                                Blackford County
                            .
                        Cecil Beeson, 
                                Hartford City
                            .
                        (M-22) 114; MS-259
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Centerville
                             Legislature, 
                                Centerville
                            ; minutes, 1829–1830; 1 vol., 26 pp.
                        The rules, bylaws, list of members, and minutes of an organization that was founded upon the
                            idea of a mock state legislature. Members represented existing counties and introduced bills
                            as proposed laws by which the "state" should be governed. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Greenfield
                             Public Library.
                        (M-12) 125, Reel #1; MS-260
                    
               
                        Club of Progress, 
                                Wells County
                            ; minutes, 1875; 1 vol., 5 pp.
                        Minutes of meetings, names of members, and amount pledged toward the building of a meeting
                            hall. 
                                Wells County
                            .
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-261
                    
               
                        Daughters of the American Revolution, Christopher 
                                Harrison
                             Chapter, 
                                Salem
                            ; minutes, 1917–1922; 1 vol., 182 pp.
                        Minutes of meetings of the Christopher 
                                Harrison
                             Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-12) 147; MS-262
                    
               
                        Democratic Party, 
                                Orange County
                            ; minutes, [1863 ?]; 1 item, 5 pp., transcribed.
                        Proceedings of an 
                                Orange County
                             Democratic meeting, Millersburg, Indiana. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-263
                    
               
               
                        Democratic Party, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1863; 1 item, 8 pp., transcribed.
                        Proceedings of a 
                                Washington County
                             Democratic meeting, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-264
                    
               
                        Farmers' Mutual Benefit Association, Hickory Grove; minutes, 1890; 1 item, 10 pp.,
                            typed.
                        Minutes, members, index, of the Hickory Grove Farmers' Mutual Benefit Association. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-10) 114; MS-265
                    
               
                        Horse Thief Detective Company, 
                                Hancock County
                            ; minutes, 1865; 1 vol., 16 pp.
                        Constitution, bylaws, and rules of the 
                                Hancock County
                             Horse Thief Detective Company.
                        
                     
                                Greenfield
                             Public Library.
                        (M-11) 125, Reel #1; MS-266
                    
               
                        Horse Thief Detective Company, 
                        Ladoga,
                                    Montgomery County
                     ; minutes,
                            1905–1925; 1 vol., 144 pp.
                        Minutes of the quarterly meetings of the 
                                Ladoga
                             Horse Thief Detective Association. Also contains list of members. 
                                Montgomery County
                            .
                        Mrs. Harold D. Walters, New Ross.
                        (M-4) 134, Reel #2; MS-267
                    
               
                        Ladies Mite Society, Hobart; minutes, 1868–1928; 1 vol., 83 pp.
                        Minutes of the Ladies Mite Society, Hobart, Indiana. An early sewing circle. 
                                Lake County
                            .
                        Hobart Historical Society.
                        (M-12) 149, Reel #1; MS-268
                    
               
               
                        Ladies Piano Club, 
                                Salem
                            ; minutes, 1896-1920; 3 vol., 356 pp.
                        Minutes of the Ladies Piano Club of 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-1) 103, Reel #2; MS-269
                    
               
                        Legislative Society, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1860–1880; 2 items, 16 pp.
                        Constitution, minutes, and members' names of the Zoah and No. 4 legislative
                            societies. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-10) 114; MS-270
                    
               
                        Lyceum, Cedar Grove; minutes, 1841–1842; 1 vol., 28 pp.
                        Minutes of meetings, constituion, and bylaws, of the Cedar Grove Lyceum, 
                                Franklin County
                            . A society that met to discuss problems of the day, both state and national.
                            Also contains an account book of Dr. John Wallace.
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-10) 147; MS-271
                    
               
                        Nottingham Ganger, 
                                Wells County
                            ; minutes, 1867–1870; 1 vol., 62 pp.
                        The Ganger was the organ of the Independent Literary Society devoted to
                            "intellectual and moral improvement." Contains essays on various subjects,
                            travel sketches, poetry, and other literary works. 
                                Wells County
                            .
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-272
                    
               
                        Oakland Clionian, 
                                Rush County
                            ; minutes, 1866–1868; 1 vol., 142 pp.
                        The minutes of the Oakland Clionian, a debating society in 
                                Raysville
                            , Indiana. 
                                Rush County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-7) 103; MS-273
                    
               
               
                        Presbyterian Ladies Aid, Livonia; minutes, 1949–1961; 1 vol., 252 pp.
                        Minutes of the Presbyterian Ladies Aid, Livonia, Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-4) 103, Reel #3; MS-274
                    
               
                        Republican State Convention; minutes, 1874; 1 item, 13 pp., pamphlet.
                        Proceedings of the 1874 Republican State Convention, held in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-20) 121; MS-275
                    
               
                        Rural Electrification Corporation, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1935–1939; 1 item, 14 pp.
                        Minutes of the 
                                Washington County
                             Rural Electrification Membership Corporation. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-17) 149, Reel #1; MS-276
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Salem
                             Farmers Club, 
                                Salem
                            ; minutes, 1966; 1 item, 4 pp., typed.
                        "Early History of the 
                                Salem
                             Farmers Club," by Otto C. Zink. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-12) 114; MS-277
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Salem
                             Fire Company, 
                                Salem
                            ; minutes, 1878–1940; 1 vol., 634 pp.
                        The constitution, bylaws, index, and minutes of the meetings of the 
                                Salem
                             Fire Company. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-2) 123; MS-278
                    
               
                        Service Star Legion, 
                                Hartford City
                            ; minutes, 1929–1941; 1 item, 176 pp.
                        Minutes of the Service Star Legion of 
                        Hartford
                                City. Blackford County
                     .
                        Cecil Beeson, 
                                Hartford City
                            .
                        (M-21) 114; MS-279
                    
               
               
                        Social Welfare Association, 
                                Floyd County
                            ; minutes, 1912–1915; 1 vol., 104 pp.
                        Minutes of the meetings of the directors of 
                                Floyd County
                             Social Welfare Association. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-5) 93; MS-280
                    
               
                        Society of Inquiry, Indiana Asbury College; minutes, 1839–1842; 1 vol., 23 pp.
                        Constitution and minutes of the Society of Inquiry at Indiana Asbury College, now DePauw
                            University. 
                                Putnam County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-9) 148, Reel #1; MS-281
                    
               
                        Teachers Institute, 
                                Jackson
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1891–1899; 1 vol., 54 pp.
                        Secretary's record book of the 
                                Jackson
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            , Teachers Institute. Includes teachers' names, courses offered, and
                            minutes of meetings.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-16) 121; MS-282
                    
               
                        Teachers Institute, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1920–1932; 1 vol., 124 pp.
                        Minutes of the institute that was held during the summer before the beginning of each school
                            year. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-2) 103, Reel #2; MS-283
                    
               
                        Teachers Organization, 
                                Washington
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            ; minutes, 1941–1954; 1 item, 137 pp.
                        Minutes of the 
                                Washington
                             Township Teachers Organization. 
                        Washington
                                    County. Washington County
                     
                            Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-4) 103, Reel #3; MS-284
                    
               
               
                        Thallo Club, New 
                                Albany
                            ; minutes, 1904–1913; 4 vols., 202 pp.
                        Minutes, bylaws, and constitution of the Thallo Club, a literary society of New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-1, 2, 3, 4) 93, Reel #2; MS-285
                    
               
                        Treble Clef Club, New 
                                Albany
                            ; minutes, 1894–1924; 3 vols., 290 pp.
                        Minutes of meetings, index of musical works, and attendance of members in the club. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-5, 6, 7) 93, Reel #1; MS-286
                    
               
                        Young Mens Institute, New 
                                Albany
                            ; minutes, 1895-1905; 1 vol., 398 pp.
                        Minute book of Unity Council #262, Atlantic Jurisdiction, New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-1) 93, Reel #1; MS-287
                    
               
                        Young Mens Tract Society, New 
                                Albany
                            ; minutes, [1843 ?]; 1 vol., 151 pp.
                        Minutes, constitution, and bylaws of the Young Mens Tract Society of New 
                                Albany
                            . Also included are school notes on physics, logic, philosophy, chemistry, and
                            others. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-2) 93, Reel #1; MS-288
                    
            
            X. Reminiscences and Memoirs
            
               
                        Barnes, W. W.; memoirs, 1910; 1 item, 19 pp., typed.
                        An autobiography of Barnes written a few months before he died. It is the story of a man born
                            in 1819 who worked his way through life as a teacher, blacksmith, land speculator,
                            journalist, and community leader. A well written account of nineteenth century life and
                            times. 
                                Howard County
                            .
                        Edwin B. Riley, Jr., 
                                Kokomo
                            .
                        (X) 127; MS-289
                    
               
               
                        Barnett, Henry C.; memoirs, 1933; l item, 44 pp., typed.
                        The Civil War recollections by Barnett are a series of comments on the times in Indiana and
                            the nation. A history with personal recollections. 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (M-2) 149; MS-290
                    
               
                        Barrett, John D.; memoirs, 1868; 1 item, 7 pp., typed.
                        "Westward Bound in 1868," a narrative of a journey from 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana, to 
                                Kansas
                             in 1868, as told in later years by Barrett's son George.
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 58; MS-291
                    
               
                        Baynes, Leafa; memoirs, n.d,; 1 item, 7 pp.
                        Memoirs from stories told to Mrs. Baynes by her father and mother of their experiences in
                            pioneer Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-292
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Butler
                            , Reverend Thomas; memoirs, n.d.; 1 vol., 100 pp.
                        
                     The Life and Labors of Reverend Thomas 
                                    Butler
                                
                     , an autobiography of an early Indiana circuit rider from 
                                Martin County
                            .
                        Mrs. Edith Shelton, Ottwell.
                        (X) 57; MS-293
                    
               
                        Cottingham, Henry A.; memoirs, 1856; 1 item, 35 pp.
                        An autobiography of a Methodist circuit rider from 
                                Hamilton County
                            .
                        Mrs. John T. Jameson, Jr., 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 35; MS-294
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Crawford
                            , James E.; memoirs, 1920; 1 item, 6 pp., typed.
                        Reminiscence and family history regarding pioneer Indiana. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        V. C. Freeman, 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                        (X) 30; MS-295
                    
               
                        Davis, Lulie; memoirs, 1967; 1 item, 9 pp.
                        "Pioneer Lore or Grandparents Tales," by Miss Davis, concerns a
                            reminiscence of her early life near 
                                Salem
                             and also stories told to her by grandparents. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Miss Lulie Davis, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-9) 149, Reel #1; MS-296
                    
               
                        Elliott, Elmer E.; memoirs, 1879; 1 item, 7 pp.
                        Account of a hog drive from 
                                New Harmony
                             to 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, in 1879. 
                                Posey County
                            .
                        Mrs. Helen Elliott, 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                        (X) 96; MS-297
                    
               
                        Gossett, Thomas A.; memoirs, 1885; 1 item, 105 pp.
                        "Andersonville or Fifteen Months in Rebel Prisons," by Gossett, a member of
                            Company I, 7th Indiana Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Hendricks County
                            . He comments on the hardships and other experiences he suffered in this famous
                            Confederate prison in 
                                Georgia
                            .
                        A. K. Houk, Jamestown.
                        (X) 45; MS-298
                    
               
                        Hiatt, Iva; memoirs, n.d.; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        A brief reminiscence of Iva Hiatt concerning the John Hiatt family and their move to Indiana
                            in 1836. She comments on John's role in both 
                                Morgan
                            's Raid and the Underground Railroad. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-299
                    
               
               
                        Hugg, Floy H.; memoirs, 1880's; 1 item, 5 pp.
                        "Say Treat," by Floy Hugg is a reminiscence of her school days in 
                                Hendricks County
                            .
                        Mrs. Floy Hugg, Shamrock, 
                                Texas
                            .
                        (X) 116; MS-300
                    
               
                        Kimball, Nathan; memoirs, 1862; 1 item, 62 pp.
                        
                     Under Canvass; or Recollections of the Fall and Summer Campaigns of the 14th
                                Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. A history written by a soldier from 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                        (X) 110; MS-301
                    
               
                        Madden, Samuel Chew; memoirs, 1857; 1 item, 4 pp., typed.
                        Brief description of 
                                Parke County
                             in 1857. Includes material on railroads, description of flatboats,
                            distilleries, "my first vote," and other items.
                        Mrs. Frederick Luther, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 8; MS-302
                    
               
                        Mattox, Nathaniel S.; memoirs, 1882; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        A reminiscence entitled "Experience of Grace," a religious enlightenment
                            that came to Mattox when he was a small boy. 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        Mrs. Anna Harvey, Hardinsburg.
                        (X) 128; MS-303; see also MS-192
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Morgan
                            's Raid; memoirs, n.d.; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        A brief account of John Hunt Morgan's raid into southern Indiana and his visit west
                            of 
                                North Vernon
                            , Indiana. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Jennings County
                             Public Library, 
                                North Vernon
                            .
                        (M-14) 149, Reel #1; MS-304
                    
               
                        Sellers Family; memoirs, 1859–1966; 2 items, 358 pp., typed.
                        Two memoirs of days gone by, one by Emma Jane Sellers (1859–1936) and one by her
                            daughter Erschel Sellers Records (1878–1966). 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                        Mrs. William R. Johnson, Martinsville.
                        (M) 43; MS-305
                    
               
               
                        Thornton, Joseph H.; memoirs, n.d.; 1 item, 11 pp., typed.
                        "The Heroine of the Log Cabin School House," by Thornton, describes pioneer
                            schooling in Indiana in the 1830's.
                        Mrs. Helen C. Beatty, 
                                Logansport
                            .
                        (X) 64; MS-306
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Van
                             Riper, Paul; memoirs, 1939; 1 vol., 128 pp.
                        "The Reminiscence of a Hill-Billy," by Van Riper, is the memoirs of a young
                            man growing up in Indiana. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        Paul P. Van Riper, 
                        Ithaca, New York
                     .
                        (M-18) 149, Reel #1; MS-307
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Pioneers; memoirs, [?]-1851; 3 items, 25 pp.
                        Reminiscence of four 
                                Washington County
                             pioneers: S. N. Smith, Elizabeth Coale, 
                                Henry
                             Atherton, Bartlett Young. Each tells of the early days around 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-308
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Wells
                            , James K.; memoirs, n.d.; 1 item, 48 pp.
                        A regimental history of the 31st Indiana during the Civil War, written in later years by
                            Wells. Contains a history and list of officers and recruits. Wells was from 
                                Owen County
                            .
                        Arlington High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 95; MS-309
                    
               
                        Williams, Alice; memoirs, 1964; 1 item, 9 pp.
                        Brief biography of a number of Civil War veterans of 
                                Brown
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            . The biographies include several reminiscences of the old soldiers.
                        Mrs. Alice Williams, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 69; MS-310
                    
            
            
            XI. Sermons, Speeches, Lectures
            
               
                        Davis, 
                                Henry
                            ; speeches, n.d.; 1 item, 8 pp.
                        A Fourth of July speech given sometime during the Civil War. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Miss Lulie Davis, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-311
                    
               
                        Edson, Hanford A.; speeches, 1868; 1 item, 40 pp.
                        A sermon given by the Reverend Edson on the needs of a public library for the city of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Also contains a brief description of the city. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        In 
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 20; MS-312
                    
               
                        Goodwin, John R.; speeches, 1848; 1 item, 25 pp.
                        A lecture on physical education delivered before the 
                                Franklin
                             Lyceum on February 22, 1848. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-9, part) 148, Reel #1; MS-313
                    
               
                        Lankenan, 
                                Henry
                            ; speeches, 1862-1865; 3 vols., 78 pp.
                        Lectures given to students containing notes and reminiscences of experiences in the Civil
                            War. Lankenan was a member of Company D, 90th Indiana Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, from 
                                Jefferson County
                            .
                        Earl M. Caston, 
                                Decatur
                            .
                        (M-6) 114; MS-314
                    
               
                        Nowland, John H. B.; speeches, n.d.; 1 item, 8 pp.
                        A short synopsis of a speech given by Nowland at Broad Ripple Park, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The speech dealt with the capture, life, and later release of Frances Slocum. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-19) 121; MS-315
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Posey
                            , Frank B.; speeches, 1900-1904; 8 items, 74 pp.
                        A number of speeches by a southern Indiana judge before the 
                                Evansville
                             Bar Association and other groups. Topics covered such subjects as Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , legal tender and inflation, Alexander 
                                Hamilton
                            , Indiana history, and several speeches on behalf of friends and members of the
                            bar association who died. 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            .
                        Miss Myrtle 
                        Posey, Rockport
                     .
                        (X) 52; MS-316
                    
               
                        Prentiss, Nelson; speeches, 1876; 1 item, 21 pp., typed.
                        Centennial address delivered at Albion, Indiana, July 4, 1876. Speech dealt with the history
                            of 
                                Noble County
                            .
                        T. C. Holcomb, Albion.
                        (X) 100; MS-317
                    
               
                        Winslow, John; speeches, 1925–1927; 1 item, 19 pp., typed.
                        Several speeches and writings of an early Indian pioneer who spoke of the many changes he saw
                            in his ninety years in 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-14) 114; MS-318
                    
            
            XII. Miscellaneous
            
               
                        
                     
                                Adams
                            , Leander F.; essay, n.d.; 1 item, 2 pp., typed.
                        "Private Contemplation," or a religious essay written by Adams, a devout
                            member of the Old Unity Primitive Baptist Church. 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-8) 121; MS-319; see also MS-123
                    
               
                        Booth, Hannah Pitts; biography, n.d.; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Brief biography of an early Indiana pioneer woman, by Minnie D. Henderson. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 69; MS-320
                    
               
               
                        Brock, George; receipt, 1822; 1 item, 1 p.
                        A receipt showing goods which Brock delivered from Jonathan Lyon to Benjamin Cuthbard. List
                            includes prices of such items as whiskey, tea, tin, coffee. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 15; MS-321
                    
               
                        Bundy, Phenely A.; biography, 1924; 1 item, 10 pp.
                        Sketch of Phenely A. Bundy, by Zella May White, a biography of an early Indiana pioneer
                            woman. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-322
                    
               
                        Cannon, Newland; radio scripts, 1942–1950; 1 item, 543 pp.
                        Weekly radio scripts of Newland "Doc" Cannon, chairman of 
                                Floyd County
                             Soil Conservation Unit. Cannon was the voice of the farmer in the
                            1930's and 1940's.
                        In New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-5) 94, (M-1) 99; MS-323
                    
               
                        Citizenship, Application for; 1848; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        The application before the 
                                Washington County
                             Circuit Court of John Brownlee for his United States citizenship.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 143; MS-324
                    
               
                        Consley, Thomas and Peter; receipts, 1792–1844; 31 items, 31 pp.
                        State, county, township, road, school, poll, and other tax receipts of Thomas and Peter
                            Consley. Early receipts are not from Indiana but from the southeastern states. 
                                Clark County
                            .
                        Omer C. Boyer, New 
                                Washington
                            .
                        (M-24) 114; MS-325
                    
               
               
                        Copy Book; 1818; 1 item, 29 pp.
                        Very early school copybook. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 88; MS-326
                    
               
                        Dame, Charles; essay, 1875; 1 item, 3 pp.
                        An essay written by Charles Dame on the art of navigation. 
                                Hancock County
                            .
                        Don Eades, 
                                Greenfield
                            .
                        (X) 83; MS-327
                    
               
                        Edwards, 
                                Henry
                            ; receipts, 1851–1900; 56 items, 56 pp.
                        Poll, land, school, and road tax receipts of 
                                Henry
                             Edwards. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Mrs. Helen Burgess, Livonia.
                        (M-2) 125, Reel #2; MS-328
                    
               
                        Election of 1896; record, 1896; 1 item, 4 pp., typed.
                        Voting record of the November election, 1896, Pierce Township, 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-4) 121; MS-329
                    
               
                        Fair Association, 
                                Johnson County
                            ; 1881; 1 item, 34 pp.
                        Premium list of the 
                                Johnson County
                             Fair Association held in 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana.
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 142; MS-330
                    
               
                        Fields, W. B.; essay, 1880's; 1 item, 16 pp.
                        An essay written on the "true object in obtaining an education." 
                                Jay County
                            .
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (M-17) 125, Reel #1; MS-331
                    
               
               
                        Files, Instructions on How to Clean; n.d.; 1 item, 1 p.
                        An old "remedy" used in cleaning files. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 129; MS-332
                    
               
                        Fitzgerald, W. T.; broadside, n.d.; 1 item, 1 p.
                        A broadside announcing W. T. Fitzgerald, attorney at law and solicitor of American and
                            foreign patents, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                        Pennville Junior High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-333
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Turnpike Company; record, 1841; 1 item, 3 pp.
                        A list of names of owners of stock in the 
                                Franklin
                             Turnpike Company, 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-4) 148, Reel #2; MS-334
                    
               
                        Grand Army of the Republic; program, 1911; 1 item, 43 pp.
                        Official program of the 32nd Annual Encampment of the Indiana GAR held in 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 141; MS-335
                    
               
                        Graves, Frank S.; logbook, 1944–1945; 1 item, 41 pp.
                        Aviator's flight logbook kept during World War II. Contains duration and character
                            of flight and remarks. Graves was from 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 109; MS-336
                    
               
                        Knight, Sylvanus; poetry, 1939; 14 items, 120 pp., typed.
                        Poems written by Knight for the Highland Farmers Club describing the early days of the
                            Highland Friends Community. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3) 103, Reel #3; MS-337
                    
               
               
                        Lowden, Leone; notes, 1942; 3 items, 10 pp.
                        Background material used in Mrs. Lowden's Civil War novel, Proving
                                Ground.
                        Mrs. Leone Lowden, Fountaintown.
                        (X) 31; MS-338
                    
               
                        Matrimony; newspaper clipping, n.d.; 1 item, 1 p., typed.
                        A story that appeared in the Brownstown Banner concerning a young girl who traveled to 
                                Illinois
                             to get married without the knowledge of her parents. 
                                Jackson County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-6) 121; MS-339
                    
               
                        Norris, Ralph W.; newspaper clipping, 1883, 1962; 2 items, 6 pp.
                        A story that appeared in the 
                                North Vernon
                            
                            Plain Dealer of June 14, 1883, describing the damage done by a great
                            windstorm. Also the story of a well used by early travelers in 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        Ralph W. Norris, 
                                North Vernon
                            .
                        (X) 115; MS-340
                    
               
                        Patent Application; 1907; 1 item, 10 pp., typed.
                        A patent application for a harvester reel and actuating mechanism, filed in 1907 by George V.
                            Ratz. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-5) 121; MS-341
                    
               
                        Pennington, Dennis; biography, 1929; 1 item, 6 pp.
                        Brief biography of an early 
                                Harrison County
                             pioneer by Ralph Wiseman.
                        Mrs. C. E. Whitehead, Ottwell.
                        (X) 76; MS-342
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Posey
                            , Frank B.; biography, 1933; 2 items, 5 pp.
                        Biographical sketch of Frank B. Posey, a member of the 
                                Rockport
                             Bar Association. Biography was given in a speech before the association
                            following the death of 
                        Posey. Spencer County
                     .
                        Mrs. Myrtle Posey, 
                                Rockport
                            .
                        (X) 38; MS-343; see also MS-316
                    
               
                        Railroad Pass Cards; 1892–1902; 77 items.
                        Various railroad passes issued to H. B. Bartel, route agent for the American Express Company.
                        North Central High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 102; MS-344
                    
               
                        Shepard, James; receipts, 1846–1865; 8 items, 8 pp.
                        Tax receipts for school, road, township, poll, and personal property for the years 1846-1865. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-5) 114; MS-345
                    
               
                        The Swiss Colonization Society, 
                                Tell City
                            ; papers, 1858–1889; 6 items, 7 pp.
                        Miscellaneous papers and documents of 
                                Tell City
                             including several relating to the Swiss Colonization Society. 
                                Perry County
                            .
                        In 
                                Tell City
                             Public Library.
                        (M-9) 114; MS-346
                    
               
                        Waterbury, J. B.; pamphlet, 1864; 1 item, 31 pp.
                        
                     Mustered Out; or The Soldier at Home, written by Waterbury, and published
                            by the American Tract Society. A small printed pamphlet attempting to uplift the morale of
                            the homecoming soldier.
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 141; MS-347
                    
               
               
                        White, Isaac; biography, 1889; 1 item, 27 pp., typed.
                        Sketch of the life of Colonel Isaac White of 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, who was killed at the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             in 1811. Sketch was written by George F. White.
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-4) 114; MS-348
                    
               
                        Williams, Albert C.; essay, 1950; 1 item, 6 pp., typed.
                        "The Forests of Southern Indiana/' by Albert C. Williams. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 109; MS-349
                    
               
                        Wood, John; address, 1935; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Centennial anniversary address of the John Wood Family Reunion Association, given by Alice
                            Vincent Nesbit. 
                                Lake County
                            .
                        Mrs. Francis Miller, 
                                Michigan City
                            .
                        (X) 4; MS-350
                    
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Ghost Railroads of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               . By Elmer G. Sulzer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Vane A. Jones Co., 1967. Pp. 257. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, appendices.
                    $12.00.)
            In the spring of 1968 the Interstate Commerce Commission gave the 
                        Tennessee
                     Central Railway permission to abandon completely its 287 mile line running from
                    Harriman, 
                        Tennessee
                    , to Hopkinsville, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Sulzer naturally does not cover this most recent instance of railroad abandonment in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but his volume does review fully the story of discontinued railroad service in the
                    timberlands, coal fields, and bluegrass regions of the state. Most of the nearly 1,100 miles of lost
                    trackage has been abandoned since the early thirties, but more than 250 miles was discarded before
                    World War I. Many readers of this entertaining volume will be surprised to learn that in an earlier
                    day 
                        Kentucky
                     could claim as many as twenty-eight narrow guage railroads—lines like the
                    little five mile Panther Gap Railroad which in the nineties served a lumber company in the eastern
                    end of the state.
            This book is not primarily intended for the professional historian interested in railroad history,
                    but rather for the wider fraternity of the railroad buff. The text is sometimes abbreviated, but the
                    volume is enriched with more than three hundred well selected photographs and illustrations. The
                    reader for whom this work was written will not worry about the absent documentation and will delight
                    in the numerous maps, timetables, charts, and track profiles which accompany each chapter. The
                    author, a long time professor of radio and television at Indiana University, has spent much of his
                    spare time in recent years in researching and studying the forgotten railroads of the Bluegrass
                    State. Elmer Sulzer has performed a labor of love in giving us the Ghost Railroads of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               .
            
                    Purdue University
                
            John F. Stover
         
         
            
               Conceptions of 
                            Kentucky
                         Prehistory: A Case Study in the History of Archaeology. By Douglas W.
                    Schwartz. Studies in Anthropology, 6. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 133. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Douglas Schwartz has spent many years of his archaeological career working and promoting the
                    development of prehistoric research in 
                        Kentucky
                    . His contributions both to program development and publication are extensive. He is
                    exceptionally qualified to write an intellectual history of archaeological research in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The book under review covers the development of archaeological work in 
                        Kentucky
                     from the earliest investigations to the present. The role of Colonel William S. Webb is
                    given detailed and extensive treatment. This emphasis is merited, as no other man exerted as much
                    influence on the study  of the prehistory of 
                        Kentucky
                     as did Webb. He was not the first, but he was the most vigorous. According to Schwartz
                    his major contribution was his organizing genius that put archaeology "on the map"
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            There are those who will read this book with nostalgia and hope to find in it a list of individuals
                    and their contributions. The scope of the work is not directed toward this end, however. For
                    example, the late Charles Erasmus Snow is not dealt with, although his contributions to 
                        Kentucky
                     archaeology were many. But this is an intellectual history which deals with the main
                    trends of ideas. Snow and others are not discussed because their contributions to the field were
                    factual and ancilliary.
            The book is well written and sustains one's interest. In format, it is an acceptable job.
                    The illustrations are well done and contribute to the total impact and interest of the volume.
            This book will be useful at a variety of levels. For those who wish to have a few hours of enjoyable
                    reading to recall the bygone days of archaeology in 
                        Kentucky
                     the volume is eminently suitable. For others, who wish to delve into the history and
                    development of ideas and intellectual approaches to prehistory, the book will be stimulating and
                    provocative. Schwartz is to be commended for this fine piece of work which has such broad interest
                    and application.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        -Milwaukee
                
            Melvin L. Fowler
         
         
            
               John Milton Gregory and the University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               . By Harry A. Kersey, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1968. Pp. ix, 252. Frontispiece, notes, references, index. $7.95.)
            The first trickle of students gathered at 
                  Urbana,
                            Illinois
               , on March 2, 1867, and enrolled
                    as the first class of the 
                        Illinois
                     Industrial University. By the time of inaugural festivities, nine days later, the grand
                    total had swelled to sixty-eight young men. Local farmers, state politicians, educators, and
                    students crowded into the new chapel to hear the opening day speeches. The last address was given by
                    the first regent of the university, John Milton Gregory, who, because of the preceding long-winded
                    speaker, scrapped his prepared text and gave a short extemporaneous talk. Gregory declared that the 
                        Illinois
                     Industrial University (later renamed the University of 
                        Illinois
                    ) would promote the industrial interests of the people of the state. The new regent did
                    not completely shed his liberal arts beliefs and emphasized that the new institution did not hope to
                    send forth men who were "puffed up by some little smattering of science, but clear-headed,
                    broad-breasted scholars, men of fully developed minds …" (p. 82). Though
                    receiving a large land grant through the Morrill Act of 1862, the recently opened university
                    continued to teach liberal arts courses. The vague wording of the landmark act had left the role of
                    liberal arts in limbo and led to widespread disagreement on what the land-grant schools should
                    teach. Until his resignation thirteen years later, Gregory directed the university on a course that
                    was sensitive to the needs  of agriculture and industry yet did
                    not ignore the ethical and aesthetic enrichment of the students.
            Though stressing Gregory's role as the first regent of the 
                        Illinois
                     Industrial University, Kersey gives some coverage to his subject's earlier
                    life.
            The author sketches Gregory's days at 
                        Union
                     College in 
                        New York
                    , his activities in 
                        Michigan
                     as editor of the 
                  
                            Michigan
                         Journal of Education, state superintendent of public instruction, and
                    president of Kalamazoo College. Gregory's fifteen years of responsible and noteworthy
                    service in 
                        Michigan
                     had marked him as a talented educator and prompted officials in 
                        Illinois
                     to bring him to the prairie country.
            In providing the setting in which Gregory walked, the author too readily subscribes to
                    generalization. He writes that the decades between the War of 1812 and the Civil War "saw
                    the development of a singular American culture" (p. 1). He maintains that Americans
                    constructed a set of postulates that determined their modes of living. While one might question
                    whether this generalization could stand for any period of our past, it seems that the period in
                    question was the opposite of what Kersey maintains. His argument fails to explain the wide
                    differences of opinions on man and society that were dogmatically espoused. Progress held radically
                    different meanings to Americans, and the strife in the decades before the Civil War brought home the
                    deepness of that disunity.
            Kersey ends his career biography of Gregory with the words: "IF YOU SEEK HIS MONUMENT, LOOK
                    AROUND YOU." This advice is carved on a stone marker that stands on the campus of the
                    university and marks the final resting place of the prominent educator. Through the constant efforts
                    of many who followed, Gregory's monument-the University of 
                        Illinois
                    — has grown into one of the foremost universities in America.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            George Chalou
         
         
            
               Pictorial History of 
                            Michigan
                        : The Early Years. By George S. May. A John M. Munson Michigan History Fund
                    publication, 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, Department of State. (Grand Rapids, 
                        Michigan
                    : William B. Eerdman's Publishing Company, 1967. Pp. 239. Index. $1
                    5.00.)
            George S. May, presently an associate professor of history at Eastern 
                        Michigan
                     University, served for ten years as a staff member of the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission. Hence he had ample opportunity to collect the items used in this
                    delightful volume. In an effort to "recreate, through pictures, that earlier 
                        Michigan
                     which preceded the modern 
                        Michigan
                     of the automobile and the freeway," May attempted to confine his selection
                    "with only a very few exceptions, to illustrative materials from the period or to
                    photographs of physical objects that existed in those years …" (p. 11). Although
                    he relied heavily on the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission Archives,  he secured
                    illustrations from other sources, including numerous private collections.
            Portraits, with illuminating comments, include traditional leaders: French explorers Jacques
                    Marquette and Louis Hennepin; soldiers Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    , William Hull, and George A. Custer; politicians Lewis 
                        Cass
                    , Stevens T. Mason, James G. Birney, and Zachariah Chandler; Indian chiefs Tecumseh and
                    Okemos; and men of distinction in other fields, Henry R. Schoolcraft, Father Gabriel Richard, James
                    J. Strang, Douglass Houghton, and Charles T. Harvey. Persons sometimes neglected in other works
                    include women Elizabeth Margaret Chandler, Laura Smith Haviland, Caroline Bartlett Crane, and
                    Lucinda Hinsdale Stone; educators John D. Pierce, James B. Angell, and Albertus C. Van Raalte; and
                    obscure people such as those pictured on pages 85, 135, 153, and 166. Residents of the Upper
                    Peninsula will find their region portrayed not only in the pre-pioneer period but in special
                    chapters concerned with lumbering, mining, and the Great Lakes.
            The author appears to be more interested in the humanities than in wars and politics. Architecture
                    receives considerable emphasis, with representative buildings of the Federal, Greek Revival, and
                    Gothic styles much in evidence. (Many of these illustrations came from the Historic American
                    Buildings Survey and the National Archives.) May also seems to delight in presenting restorations
                    which may be seen in 
                        Greenfield
                     Village, 
                        Detroit
                    , Grand Rapids, and 
                        Marshall
                    . He notes with regret that numerous nineteenth century buildings have been demolished
                    "during America's latest urban renewal craze …" (p. 204). Not
                    all that is depicted, however, is elegance—witness a pioneer farm near Greenville (p.
                    156), Charlie Goodwin's Implement Shop in Colon (p. 163), and Ironwood in the
                    1880's (p. 109).
            Books of this type are made possible by a fund established by the late John M. Munson, 
                        Michigan
                     educator, whose career included presidencies at Northern 
                        Michigan
                     University and Eastern 
                        Michigan
                     University when they were regional normal schools.
            
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana
                
            Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               History of the Santee Sioux: United States Indian Policy on Trial. By Roy W.
                    Meyer. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xvi, 434. Maps, notes, illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            In this era of racial awareness the American Indian remains a neglected minority group. Roy W.
                    Meyer's History of the Santee Sioux, however, sheds significant light on
                    at least one portion of that race. His accurate and important study traces the course of the Santee
                    from first white contact to the present time. It is not a pleasant story. As he points out,
                    "The course they have followed in the past three centuries has, unfortunately, been mostly
                    downward" (p. 358).
            The 
                        Minnesota
                    -based Santee Sioux never attained the popular prominence of their plains brethren,
                    perhaps because they did not kill Custer; but  their 1862
                    uprising proved equally as electrifying to the United States and far more devastating. This exploit
                    proved the tribe's undoing and hastened the process of cultural decline. The whites harried
                    the tribe out of 
                        Minnesota
                    , leaving only a handful of refugees in the state. The bulk of the Santee were placed on
                    reservations in 
                        Nebraska
                     and South Dakota.
            Although an analysis of a relatively narrow segment of the Indian population, the story has broad
                    application to the study of general Indian policy because, as Meyer notes, the "history of
                    the Santee Sioux is the history of the American Indian" (p. 371). The bitter fruits of the
                    Dawes Act and other similar well-intentioned but ill-conceived legislation for the Indians are
                    starkly portrayed. Also presented is the picture of a people who often loudly proclaimed their
                    readiness for self-government but when given the opportunity found themselves incapable of even
                    financial independence from the federal government.
            Although this volume is not easy reading and certain statements of a general nature could be
                    challenged, Meyer has thoroughly grounded his study by diligent research at the National Archives,
                    and the final product is a tribute to his efforts. More books like it are sorely needed because only
                    after they are written can valid analysis of the success or failure of American Indian policy be
                    made.
            
                    National Historical Publications Commission, 
                            Washington
                        
               
                
            Herman J. Viola
         
         
            
               The National Waterway: A History of the Chesapeake and 
                            Delaware
                         Canal, 1769–1965. By Ralph D. Gray. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xi, 279. Notes, tables, illustrations, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $8.95.)
            Ralph Gray's admirable study of the Chesapeake and 
                        Delaware
                     Canal, a short line linking the bay waters serving 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    , is a traditional narrative account. It concentrates upon the history of the
                    enterprise, treating institutional development, entrepreneurship, politics, and finance. But if the
                    approach is familiar, the subject is not. This is the first full-length account of the Chesapeake
                    and 
                        Delaware
                     waterway, operated by a private company from 1829 to 1919, then controlled by the
                    federal government, which converted the line to a sea level route in the late 1920's. Under
                    governmental control, the canal underwent enlargements (a major project is presently under way); and
                    it is now a vital segment of the Atlantic Coast navigational system.
            The Chesapeake and 
                        Delaware
                     history is unusual, for it spans the long period from colonial times to the present.
                    Gray (a member of the Indiana University faculty) provides invaluable information on early efforts
                    in the 1760's to survey the route; on the promotional effort that successfully saw the
                    canal project to completion in 1829; and on the financing, administration, and traffic of the canal
                    since then. He also emphasizes differences between  canal
                    operation in the antebellum epoch of mercantile dominance and in the modern period.
            All the themes commonly found in studies of pre-1860 canal promotion and development are here: the
                    impact of urban and state rivalries on planning, the diverse roles played by promoters and
                    engineers, the struggle for federal aid, and the like. Much of the detail, however, bears on
                    significant general problems. For instance, Gray incorporates rich data on engineering,
                    construction, and navigational techniques. The Chesapeake and 
                        Delaware
                     managers' attempts to apply steampower parallel the early American
                    railroadmen's efforts at "research and development" through design of
                    locomotives and experimentation with their use at company expense. Here too is a vivid microcosmic
                    account of swift technological change—including railway competition as early as the
                    1830's—and of strategies adopted by canal managers to meet the challenge. These
                    and other developments are well documented, by reference to the Chesapeake and 
                        Delaware
                     manuscript records, state archival sources, congressional documents, and contemporary
                    pamphlets and legal briefs.
            In addition, Gray provides excellent discussions of the leading personalities in the enterprise,
                    among them Matthew Carey, John Randel, and Benjamin Latrobe. His chapter on the Civil War years,
                    when the canal assumed great importance in the 
                        Union
                    's strategy and logistics, is exceptionally lively in a book otherwise written
                    in a fairly dry style.
            Beginning in the 1870's, the private company's flexibility for responding to
                    manifold problems began to wither under financial pressures. Gray indicates well how the locus of
                    interest and initiative passed from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Baltimore
                     and how the older pattern of locally oriented interest groups gave way to pressure from
                    well-organized shippers, industrialists, and merchants from all the Atlantic Coast cities.
            
                    Dartmouth College
                
            Harry N. Scheiber
         
         
            
               Andrew 
                            Jackson
                         and the Bank War: A Study in the Growth of Presidential Power. By Robert V.
                    Remini. The Norton Essays in American History. Edited by Harold M. Hyman. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 1967. Pp. 192. Notes, bibliographical review,
                    index. $4.50.)
            This is a volume in the promising Norton series now being published for a general audience but based
                    upon extensive firsthand research by specialists. Such series are commendable for their compactness,
                    substantial scholarship, and attractive literary qualities. Hopefully, there will be more
                    publications of this kind and fewer collected documents and readings that have saturated the market.
                    Certainly this book on the national bank during the Jacksonian era is a model to be imitated. Robert
                    Remini, an expert on 
                        Van
                     Buren and Jackson, has got to the heart of the bank controversy, has methodically
                    explored a wide variety of primary materials, and has told his story with a flair that is bound to
                    keep his readers awake and wondering what will happen next.
            
            Remini's thesis is that the main element in the bank war of the 1830's was Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     himself rather than forces emphasized by other authors— the western farmer,
                    the eastern working man, the rising entrepreneur, or a particular social group. Two stubborn,
                    powerful men faced each other: 
                        Jackson
                     and President Nicholas Biddle of the Bank of the United States. At many points in the
                    conflict, Remini believes, a compromise which would have preserved a badly needed central banking
                    system and still have introduced a necessary degree of governmental regulation was entirely
                    possible; but owing to pride or prejudice, neither stubborn man would consent to it.
            So the focus is on 
                        Jackson
                     the politician, instead of financial, constitutional, sociological, or ideological
                    aspects. It was 
                        Jackson
                     who finally turned public opinion against the bank by 1834, though the President had
                    run against the current earlier. Remini thinks that a majority of the people favored the bank at the
                    outset and even through the election of 1832 (when 
                        Jackson
                     probably lost rather than gained votes because of his recharter veto). This assessment
                    of opinion corresponds with the findings of Jean Wilburn in another recent book on the subject but
                    rests upon soft, incomplete evidence. In any case, the dynamic ingredient was 
                        Jackson
                    's conviction that this monopolistic corporation wielded too much power over
                    the nation's economy and government. And 
                        Jackson
                    's victory was a tribute to his considerable skills as a politician and to his
                    capacity of democratic leadership.
            The long-run consequences were important. 
                        Jackson
                     materially built up the office of the presidency to a position of much greater strength
                    than it had ever had previously. The President developed the veto as a valuable instrument in policy
                    making, he actively participated in the legislative process, he prevailed in his insistence upon
                    complete control over his cabinet, he stimulated the resurgence of the two-party system, and he
                    became the only national official representing the American people as a whole.
            In terms of what the author proposes to do, perhaps beyond that as well, the book is both informative
                    and interesting. No doubt it will be received quite favorably indeed.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Life in Two Worlds: Biography of William Sihler. By Lewis W. Spitz. (
                        St. Louis
                    : Concordia Publishing House, 1968. Pp. 199. Notes, index. $3.95.)
            The noted Reformation scholar, Lewis W. Spitz, 
                        Stanford
                     University, ventures into the field of nineteenth century American frontier history
                    with this biography and career evaluation of an Indiana Lutheran pioneer, William Sihler. The
                    founder of several Lutheran colleges, Sihler exerted a profound influence in the organization of the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod from his position as pastor of 
                        St. Paul
                    's Lutheran Church, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 1845–1885.
            The book's title is well chosen. Sihler lived exactly half of his eighty-four years in
                    Germany, half of them in America. Spitz, however, gives the title another twist. He explains,
                    quoting Leigh Hunt: "There are two worlds—the  world we measure with line and rule, and the world we feel with our hearts and with our
                    imaginations. Sihler lived intently in the real world about him and in the world of the spirit
                    within him" (p. 172).
            The ten chapters of the book are like separate essays which tie into each other very nicely to
                    present a clear character portrayal. While the essays are of special interest to Lutherans, they
                    contain valuable historical material for any student of frontier American church history. Though
                    Spitz himself is a Lutheran, he is very frank in his criticisms of Sihler's "old
                    world hangups." For example, he terms Sihler "a transplanted European living in a
                    linguistically, culturally, and religiously isolated community, as impervious to frontier influences
                    as he could make himself" (p. 10).
            With respect to Sihler's impact on the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod, Spitz indicates, on the basis of considerable exarnination of the early issues
                    of Der Lutheraner, that "there is an intimation that two years before the
                    organization of the Synod (
                        Chicago
                    , 1847) Sihler had evolved a concept of a synod represented by a senate of permanent
                    delegates rather than the Jacksonian-type triennial meetings ad hoc such as C. F. W. Walther
                    favored" (p. 81). Sihler became, in turn, the synod's first vicc. president,
                    overswing the eastern part of thesynod, and the first president of the Central District (1854).
                    Sihler also left a distinctive mark on the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod through his numerous writings.
            E. S. Gaustad's Historical Atlas of Religions in America indicates that
                    most 
                        Indiana counties
                     are predominantly (United) Methodist. I t is noteworthy, therefore, that Spitz faults
                    both Sihler and the pioneer Lutheran missionary, F. C. D. Wyneken, with a lack of appreciation of
                    Methodism's appeal to frontier communities and its still very evangelical emphasis. Spitz
                    translates a portion of the lengthy tract Sihler published in 1844 against the Methodists. Though
                    Sihler reacted strongly against the personalism of Methodist theology, he did approve of a Methodist
                    emphasis against the use of alcohol, a view quite contrary to that "of his hard-drinking
                    Germans" (p. 170).
            At one point Spitz repeats an error somewhat current in 
                        Missouri
                     Synod journalistic and historical writings. He terms 
                        St. Paul
                    's, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , "the oldest Luthernan Church in America" (p. 43). It is not. Zion,
                    Pershing (East 
                        Germantown
                    ), affiliated with the Indiana Synod (LCA), has a continuous existence since 1822. Other
                    Lutheran churches in central and southern Indiana [e.g. St. John's Sunman (ACL), Ebenezer
                    and First United, 
                        Indianapolis
                     (LCA)], are older than 
                        St. Paul
                    's, founded in 1837.
            Written in a unique Spitz style with side excursions into many philosophical and theological thought
                    patterns which influenced Sihler, Life in Two Worlds is actually a look into numerous worlds. Spitz
                    draws comparisons of Sihler's views to nineteenth century rationalistic premises he first
                    embraced, to Luther's stance on doctrinal and social issues, and to contemporary Lutheran
                    positions. This grcatly increases the book's worth. The biographical notes and the index
                    make the volume even more useful and informative.
            
                    West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana
                
            R. F. Rehmer
         
         
         
            
               Beloved Lady: A History of Jane Addams' Ideas on Reform and Peace. By
                    John C. Farrell. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins Press, 1967. Pp. 272. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.95.)
            Clearly written with devotion reflecting the author's personal convictions, this book is at
                    the same time objective reporting of sound scholarship. It is not a biography of Jane Addams in the
                    usual sense. It is rather an analysis of her intellectual development. The personal circumstances of
                    her life appear only to the extent that they help the reader to understand the growth of her basic
                    ideas. In this task Farrell does a superb job. Tracing her Rockford College years, followed by
                    restless travel and search for identity, and the early years at Hull House where directions of
                    intellectual development begin to take shape, the author convincingly portrays the steps toward the
                    eventual evolution of mature convictions and passionately held commitments.
            
               Beloved Lady is surprisingly timely for the 1960's. This is in part
                    because of Miss Addams' devotion throughout her more than forty years of active public life
                    to two concerns which have high social and political priority today: the building of a truly
                    effective democracy and the immorality of war and its futility as an effective means toward
                    acceptable international relations and understanding. It is timely also because of current renewed
                    interest in the Progressive Movement, in which Miss Addams was one of the moving forces.
            The book will support the opinion, expressed by some, that in the long run Miss Addams'
                    greatest contribution may well prove to be intellectual rather than through her activities as a
                    leader in the Settlement House Movement in this country.
            An important conclusion of the author is that, as Miss Addams grew older and more secure in her
                    beliefs, she came more and more strongly to think that it was not enough to speak and write, but
                    that the individual must act on the basis of his convictions. This she did with
                    vigor and passion. Even during World War I years, when she was widely and bitterly criticized for
                    her views, she found ways to make active social contributions within the limitations of her own
                    abhorrence of war.
            Farrell's bibliography is extensive, covering both published and unpublished sources. There
                    is clear evidence that he examined an enormous number and wide variety of materials and evaluated
                    them in a scholarly and objective manner. It is not just a survey of available resources but a
                    synthesized concept and understanding of Jane Addams' mind and thinking. The bibliography
                    will be useful to future scholars.
            
               Beloved Lady will be of importance to any social historian interested in the period
                    it covers or in the development of the Progressive Movement in the world as well as in this country,
                    for in the later decades of her life Jane Addams was a significant international as well as national
                    leader. It is also a most readable book which will be of interest to the general reader concerned
                    with his society and its improvement, especially with human relationships (and all their
                    implications for urban development, minority groups, etc.) and with international relationships and
                    world peace.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Eunice Carmichael Roberts
         
         
         
            
               Woodrow Wilson: The Early Years. By George C. Osborn. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1968. Pp. ix, 345. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
            It is all but impossible to study the early life of a prominent political figure without attempting
                    to descern the development of those character traits and ideological convictions associated with him
                    in his public years. In the case of Woodrow Wilson, as Osborn correctly observes in his preface,
                    this tendency has been carried to an outrageous extreme by the recently published Freud-Bullitt
                    exercise in secondhand psychoanalysis. Consequently, Osborn has written of Wilson's early
                    years with the avowed purpose of refraining from drawing any inferences for the future and of
                    allowing Wilson's personality to emerge solely from a presentation of the facts. That he
                    does not entirely succeed in his design is somewhat disconcerting to the reader but does not by any
                    means obviate the value of the work.
            Despite the author's attempt to write history wie es eigentlich gcwesen, certain threads of
                    interpretation inevitably develop. One can hardly read Osborn's discussions of
                    Wilson's tendencies to rationalize defeats and to despise rivals without applying these
                    traits to the League of Nations struggle. Nor can the reader follow the author's
                    development of such themes in Wilson's scholarly writings as the need for a strong
                    executive and the dangers of congressional supremacy without thinking of his later tendency to
                    regard himself as the tribune of the people and the legislative branch as the habitat of men with
                    "bungalow minds." Wilson's penchant for drafting the charters of debating
                    societies and mock parliaments, to which Osborn makes frequent reference, naturally conjures up
                    images of his role in formulating the covenant of the League of Nations, while the denunciations of
                    strident nationalism articu; lated in his writings seem to prefigure the internationalist stance of
                    his administration. The reader will also discern the development of such other Wilsonian traits as a
                    Calvinist sense of morality, a distaste for lawyers and legalism, and a fierce, stubborn pride. The
                    difficulty with all of this is that one is never entirely certain if these are conclusions which he
                    himself has drawn from the facts presented, or whether they are really Osborn's judgments
                    which the reader has been persuaded to accept by the author's method of selecting and
                    presenting information. Since Osborn has seemingly amassed sufficient evidence to justify stating
                    the conclusions which the reader will almost inevitably draw, it would have been more forthright to
                    have asserted them explicitly.
            Nevertheless, Osborn's Wilson is a remarkable feat of scholarship, based
                    upon a seemingly exhaustive study of the available manuscript material and free from the obvious
                    partisanship which has infected most other studies of Wilson's early life. Of particular
                    importance to scholars are the detailed discussions of Wilson's numerous writings and
                    speeches on educational philosophy, political science, and American history, each of which receives
                    at least a full chapter. Nor does Osborn fail to consider his subject's personal life,
                    describing not only his relationships with his family and close friends but also his en  counters with some of the leading scholars of the day, such as
                    Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, John Franklin Jameson, Herbert Baxter 
                        Adams
                    , Albert B. Hart, and Richard Ely.
            Method aside, Osborn has produced an important work which will doubtless stand as the classic
                    reference on Wilson's early life for many years to come.
            
                    Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         University
                
            John D. Buenker
         
         
            
               Constitutional Politics in the Progressive Era: Child Labor and the Law. By
                    Stephen B. Wood. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1968. Pp. xiv, 320. Notes, bibliographic notes, index. $10.00.)
            Wood bills this work, focusing upon the campaign for a federal child labor law, as a case study of
                    "the deeply political processes by which constitutional law is formed." He further
                    writes, "an understanding of constitutional development involves more than insight
                    … into the operation of federal judicial power. It necessitates exploration of every
                    phase of democratic policy formation—from the coalescence of politically relevant opinion
                    and the enactment of public policies by the popular branches of government through judicial
                    construction of the limits of the powers and the legitimacy of the purposes embodied in legislation
                    …" (pp. ix-x).
            Unfortunately, his study fails to fulfill this promise. He docs not adequately explore the forces
                    making for congressional passage first of the Keating- 
                        Owen
                     bill and then of the Pomerene amendment. His explanation boils down to little more than
                    an appeal to the spirit of the times. He does not, for example, discuss the role of the
                    nation's women's clubs in agitating the question; he does not explain the shift by
                    the AFL from opposition to support of federal legislation; he does not show in sufficient detail the
                    activities of the National Child Labor Committee in promoting favorable sentiment and lobbying in 
                        Washington
                    . Moreover, the author stops in the middle of the story. He does not even try to explain
                    the failure to ratify the child labor amendment. And the reversal of Hammer v.
                        Dagenhart (1918) in the Darby Lumber Company case (1941) is summarily
                    dealt with in two pages with the explanation that the depression brought about "a
                    transformation of popular sentiment" (p. 300).
            The heart of the book—and its chief contribution—is its summary of the
                    constitutional arguments, pro and con, in the debate on child labor in Congress, its detailed
                    account of the steps taken in the litigation testing the constitutionality of the Keating-
                        Owen
                     bill and the Pomerene amendment, and its analysis of the resulting Supreme Court
                    decisions.
            Yet even within these limits the work suffers from weaknesses. Although Wood's assessment of
                    the motives impelling the justices is on the whole judicious, it could have been strengthened by
                    more research into their private papers. Except for a few scattered references to the Taft Papers,
                    he has not  done this. In addition, the author is highly
                    partisan in favor of the supporters of federal child labor legislation. This is reflected in such
                    invidious phraseology as the reference to the "textile oligarchy" (p. 65) and his
                    complaint about the justices reading their "anachronistic" convictions into the
                    Constitution (p. 156).
            More importantly, Wood's partisanship leads him into substantive difficulties. Thus, for
                    example, he exaggerates the inconsistency of the Dagenhart decision with existing
                    precedents. The fact was that Supreme Court had developed two distinct lines of
                    precedent—one upholding national power, the second hewing to the limiting doctrine of
                    dual federalism—which gave the justices broad leeway in picking and choosing in any given
                    case. Nor was the decision as irreconcilable with Hoke v. United States (1913) as
                    Wood suggests. The Mann Act prohibited the transportation of women across state lines for immoral
                    purposes; it did not deal with prostitution within the states.
            Second, the argument of the defenders of the two measures that the Supreme Court should not look
                    beyond the face of the law to the motives of Congress is—as has been indicated in
                    subsequent constitutional history— a double-edged sword. And this preachment was not
                    consistently followed even by those who urged it in this case. Was not the aim of the Brandeis brief
                    in the Muller case (1908) to educate the justices to the purposes of the
                    legislation?
            Third, the fears of conservatives about the consequences of upholding the measures were not as
                    "entirely visionary" as Wood assumes. Admittedly, Congress "has yet to
                    outlaw red-headed passengers from interstate transit" (p. 302). But the Darby decision did symbolize and confirm a fundamental change, for good or ill depending upon
                    one's point of view, in the previously existing federal equilibrium. It is noteworthy that
                    many sincere proponents of curbing child labor did find merit in the Drexel decision (1922) and that
                    its limitations upon the federal taxing power remain accepted law to this day.
            There are a number of minor typographical errors—Lippett for Lippitt (pp.
                    76-77)—and factual errors—Atlee Pomerene was hardly a
                    protégé of Tom 
                        Johnson
                     (p. 193).
            Notwithstanding these demurrers, Wood's study is a significant contribution to the
                    understanding of twentieth century American constitutional development—especially the
                    shortcomings of a system that relies upon private litigation to test great public policies.
            
                    University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
               
                
            John Braeman
         
         
            
               From Sacred to Profane America: The Role of Religion in American History. By
                    William A. Clebsch. (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1968. Pp. xi, 242. "Notes,
                    index. $5.95.)
            Professor William Clebsch even in the title of his volume makes quite clear the premises under which
                    he writes. If he does not explicitly belong to  the
                    "God is dead" school, he professes to believe that religion has ceased to have
                    influence in American life. He defines what is sacred as "that which is religious in
                    nature, use or association" and what is profane as "that which has discarded,
                    superseded or otherwise lost its religious nature, use or association" (p. ix). The history
                    of how religion inspired so much and yet achieved its own exclusion is the theme of the volume.
                    "In that sense the unintended but nevertheless salutary effect of religion on American
                    history has been to make a nation profaned-a society standing pro-fanum, outside
                    of religion's temple" (pp. 1-2). The major defect of his argument is that he never
                    defines exactly what religion is.
            The six contributions of religion as defined by Clebsch can hardly be attributed to any of the better
                    known "religious institutions" in the nation's history. Yet the variety
                    of religious institutions in the United States during the past two centuries might cause the
                    historian to wonder how these six were chosen. One cannot but wonder where Clebsch found his
                    "six campaigns," none of which seem to include a revealed doctrine or a purpose
                    beyond this life.
            The author has applied his thesis to nearly every prominent name in American religious history, so
                    much so that a refutation of his dogmas about them would require a considerable library. The
                    historian can only gasp at some of his generalizations. "On close examination, the 
                        Puritan
                    's convenant theology reveals a profound hope for novelty that is full of
                    complexity, not simplicity. The profane version of that convenant hardly detached the American
                    experience from its past, near or remote" (p. 42). Or again: "The trend of
                    American history from religious inspiration toward profane achievement elicited an ironic religious
                    opposition to the very innovations which in large measure were religiously inspired. If 
                        Jefferson
                     secularized the 
                        Puritan
                     religious convenant, in doing so he stirred enough 
                        New England
                     antagonism to threaten the 
                        Union
                     and a return to an American past of which Yankees were keenly conscious. Moreover,
                    religion's feeding of novelties into the American diet was often interrupted by the
                    traditioning force of religion which, although less prominent in America than its innovating force,
                    demands careful attention" (p. 43). That the religion Clebsch accepts for the present
                    period is profane depends upon his definitions and his characterization of the persons he quotes.
                    His generalizations about Roman Catholicism are snap judgments based upon very slight information. A
                    complicated study is needed to explain the decline in religious fervor in American religious
                    institutions generally and the increase in membership in religious organizations. But such a study
                    wou d be a slow process and would suppose a clear concept of what religion is.
            
                    University of Notre Dame
                
            Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
         
         
         
            
               American Building: Materials and Techniques from the First Colonial Settlements to
                        the Present. By Carl W. Condit. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1968. Pp. xiv, 329. Illustrations, suggested reading, index. $10.00.)
            Carl Condit's most recent publication is an outgrowth of his previous writings: The Rise of the Skyscraper (1952), American Building Art—The
                        Nineteenth Century (1960), American Building Art—The Twentieth
                        Century (1961), and The 
                            Chicago
                         School of Architecture (1964). The publication is one in a series of topical
                    volumes in The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization, edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. The purpose of
                    the work is to trace the development of the American building arts from the most primitive temporary
                    structures of the seventeenth century to the most complex and sophisticated buildings of the
                    twentieth century. Thus great emphasis is placed upon the materials: timber, iron, steel, and
                    concrete and their evolutionary construction techniques. The book is intended as a "popular
                    history of American building." The title is misleading if not a misnomer. A more accurate
                    title would be American Construction since about 40 per cent of the text and 53 of
                    the 112 illustrations are of dams and bridges of a variety of types. The illustrations are taken
                    from two of Condit's earlier publications; their quality is excellent. However, they are
                    totally inadequate in quantity to illustrate visually Condit's verbal analysis of truss
                    types, particularly his detailed discussion for compression and tension forces and their
                    juxtaposition in a truss or force diagram.
            A visual glossary would have been almost necessary for even a professional student of architecture or
                    structural engineering to understand how various chords, ribs, webs, piers, and reactions can be
                    analyzed. Thus the layman will experience considerable difficulty in reading the text. A greater
                    number of simple line drawings similar to Figure 3 and integrated in the text would have solved this
                    problem. Footnotes are almost nonexistent (only one), and the source material is listed under
                    general headings. Thus the author's scholarship is most difficult to document. The book is
                    attractive and well edited and will provide a solid basis for the general reader who has a deep
                    interest in American construction and its historical sources.
            
                    Ball State University
                
            David R. Hermansen
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Hoosier Farm Boy. By Tracy W. Redding. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Dorrance & Company, 1966. Pp. 143. Illustration. $3.50.) In Hoosier Farm Boy Redding records—in poetry as well as in
                    prose—random recollections of farm life in 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana, during approximately the last decade of the nineteenth century. Although the
                    author grew up within the shadow of 
                        Chicago
                     and near the rapidly growing cities of East 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    , his vignettes describe a rural community in which agrarian and traditional practices
                    and values were dominant. This volume affords some discerning insights about rural society in
                    Indiana and the Middle West in the period just before agriculture gave way to manufacturing as the
                    principal economic pursuit of the state and area.
            
               The Ball State Story: From Normal Institute to University. By Glenn White. (
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.: Ball State University, 1967. Pp. xiv, 275. Notes, illustrations, appendix.
                    $2.50.) The Ball State Story was written as a contribution to the fiftieth anniversary of
                    Ball State University which is being observed this year. It affords a sympathetic and enthusiastic
                    account of the university's growth from its beginning in 1918 as the Eastern Division of
                    Indiana State Normal, now Indiana State University. Antecedents of the Eastern Division at 
                        Muncie
                     are also noted. The close association and substantial contributions of members of the
                    Ball family to the univeristy from its establishment to the present are appropriately emphasized.
                    Although not a critical or scholarly tome in the traditional sense, The Ball State
                        Story is interesting and informative. Both the text and the numerous pictures tell a story
                    of lusty growth and important achievements.
            
               Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution Buried in Indiana.
                    Reprint. Compiled and edited by Mrs. Roscoe C. O'Byrne. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Genealogical Publishing Company, 1968. Pp. 407. Illustrations. $12.50.)
                    This volume offers information concerning and evidence of military service for approximately
                    fourteen hundred veterans of the American Revolution who are buried in Indiana. It is interesting
                    but not surprising to note that a large majority of those listed are buried in counties of the
                    southern half of the state. As Mrs. O'Byrne indicates in the Foreword, this Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution Buried in Indiana is the work
                    of many persons over a period of years. She recognizes that the roster may be incomplete and subject
                    to correction, and she invites information about possible omissions as well as additional data
                    regarding persons listed.
            
               Founders and Frontiersmen: Historic Places Commemorating Early Nationhood and the
                        Westward Movement, 1783–1828. Edited by Robert G.  Ferris. The National Survey of Historic Sites and
                        Buildings, Vol. VII. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, 1967. Pp. xii, 410.
                    Illustrations, maps, suggested reading, index. $3.00.)
            
               Prospector, Cowhand, and Sodbuster: Historic Places Associated with the Mining,
                        Ranching, and Farming Frontiers in the Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West. Edited by Robert G. Ferris. The National Survey of Historic
                        Sites and Buildings, Vol. XI. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, 1967. Pp. xiv, 320. Maps,
                    illustrations, suggested reading, notes, index. $3.00.)
            
               Explorers and Settlers: Historic Places Commemorating the Early Exploration and
                        Settlement of the United States. Edited by Robert G. Ferris. The National
                        Survey of Historic Sites and Buildings, Vol. V. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, 1968. Pp. xvi, 506.
                    Illustrations, maps, suggested reading, notes, index. $3.50.)
            As the subtitle indicates, Founders and Frontiersmen offers historical background
                    and related information concerning historic sites and buildings of significance in American history
                    for the period between the close of the American Revolution in 1783 and the election of 
                        Jackson
                     to the presidency in 1828. It has no listing of sites or buildings within Indiana which
                    are units in the National Park System; but it indicates Grouseland, 
                        Harrison
                    's home at 
                        Vincennes
                    ; the Joseph Bailey Homestead, in 
                        Porter County
                    ; and the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battlefield Site as "eligible" for inclusion in the Registry of
                    National Historic Landmarks (pp. 189–95). Other places not so listed but considered to be
                    of national significance are the Fort 
                        Harrison
                     Site, near 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; Fort 
                        Knox
                     Site, near 
                  Vincennes; Fort Wayne
                (various items); and the Territorial
                    Capitol, at 
                        Vincennes
                    . These items are all of national as well as state importance, but the exclusion of 
                        New Harmony
                    —site for both Harmonist and Owenite communities—seems strange
                    indeed. But questions of inclusion and exclusion are most perplexing for authors of such volumes.
                        Explorers and Settlers principally covers the French period so far as Indiana
                    and the Middle West are concerned. A number of sites and items within the Middle West are listed in
                    the book's various categories, but the only Indiana listing among the sites considered for
                    eligibility for the Registry of National Historic Landmarks is that of 
                  Vincennes. Miami
               ,
                    Ouiatenon, and 
                        Vincennes
                    , however, are all three included on a map concerning French posts and settlements, but
                    Ouiatenon is incorrectly located as having been the present site of 
                        Logansport
                     (map facing p. 66). Prospector, Cowhand, and Sodbuster affords
                    similar illustrations and information concerning the trans- 
                        Mississippi
                     West during approximately the nineteenth century.
            
            
               The National Road. Reprint. By Philip D. Jordan. The American Trials
                        Series. Edited by Jay Monaghan. (Gloucester: Peter Smith, 1966. Pp. 442. End map,
                    illustrations, notes, bibliographical note, index. $6.00.) This is a reprint edition,
                    apparently unchanged, of Jordan's book on the National Road which was initially published
                    by the Bobbs-Merrill Company in 1948. The building of the road is discussed, but major attention is
                    given to the life of the times and the ups and downs of the national highway which began at
                    Cumberland, 
                        Maryland
                    , and—though never "completed"—was extended
                    westward part way through 
                        Illinois
                     toward 
                        St. Louis
                     under federal auspices. Written in a lively and popular style, this account of the road
                    ends with the saga of the construction and improvement of "U.S. 40" during the
                    first half of the twentieth century.
            
               The American West: A Reorientation. Edited by Gene M. Gressley. University of Wyoming Publications, Vol. XXXII. ([Laramie]: University of Wyoming, 1966.
                    Pp. xiv, 172. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound, $5.00.) The several essays in this book
                    offer thoughtful and to a considerable extent new interpretations of important persons, topics, or
                    aspects of western history in the region west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     from about the Civil War era through the 1920's. Their significance and the
                    need for such interpretations is set forth in the Preface by Editor Gressley.
            
               Lee and Longstreet at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
               . By Glenn Tucker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1968. Pp. xi, 286. Notes, index. $6.00.)
                    Readers of Tucker's High Tide at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                will doubtless be interested in this account of Lee and
                        Longstreet at 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                which gives much attention to why the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     was not won by the South during the American Civil War. They will also be interested in
                    the author's forthright evaluations of Lee and Longstreet and his refusal to blame
                    Longstreet for Confederate failure.
            
               From Isolation to War, 1931–1941. By John E. Wiltz. The
                        Crowell American History Series. Edited by John Hope Franklin and Abraham S. Eisenstadt. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1968. Pp. vi, 152. Notes, note on historiography, index.
                    Paperbound, $1.95.) This volume surveys and evaluates the role of the United States in
                    world affairs during the decade preceding American entrance into World War II. In it the author
                    describes and interprets historical writings concerning events and developments which culminated in
                    the abandonment of "isolation" for intervention in the war which had begun in
                    Europe in September of 1939.
            
               Land Ownership Maps: A Checklist of Nineteenth Century United States County Maps in the
                        Library of Congress. Compiled by Richard W. Stephenson. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1967. Pp. xxv, 86. Maps, notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $.70.) This checklist includes nearly thirty maps showing land  holdings in about this number of 
                        Indiana counties
                    . Most maps cover only one county; a few cover two. All maps here listed were published
                    during the last half of the nineteenth century. The value of such cadastral maps to historians,
                    geographers, and genealogists is substantial. This publication may be obtained from the
                    Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20402.
            
               The National Parks of America. By Stewart L. Udall and editors of Country Beautiful.(
                        New York
                    : G. P. Putnam's Sons, in association with Country Beautiful Foundation, Inc.,
                    Waukesha, Wis., 1966. Pp. 225. Illustrations, appendix, map. $15.95.) This is a popular,
                    laudatory, and beautifully illustrated history of the national parks of the United States. Separate
                    commentary and illustrations are included for each of thirty-one parks in existence as of 1966. Much
                    useful information is found in this volume which celebrates the first half century of the National
                    Park Service, 1916–1966. It tells a story of magnificent achievement, but it warns of
                    perils to the immediate as well as the long range development and protection of national parks.
            
               Swedish Passenger Arrivals in 
                            New York
                        , 1820–1850. By Nils William Olsson. (
                        Chicago
                    : The Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1967. Pp. xx, 391. Illustrations, indices,
                    bibliography. $15.00.) By examining passenger arrival lists for the port of 
                        New York
                     for the three decades, 1820-1850, Olsson has identified about 4,000 arrivals as Swedes.
                    This well-packed volume affords biographical and related information derived from both American and
                    Swedish sources about most of these immigrants.
            Other Books and Pamphlets Received:
            
               The 
                            Delaware
                         Canal: A Picture Story. By Robert J. McClellan. (
                        New Brunswick
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1967. Pp. xv, 11 1. Maps, illustrations, appendix.
                    $7.50.)
            
               Pocket Dictionary of Collector's Terms. By Michael Goodwin. (
                        New York
                    : Philosophical Library, Inc., 1967. Pp. 31 7. Illustrations, bibliography.
                    $6.00.)
            Since our last listing we have received the following publications from the Service Center for
                    Teachers of History, a service of the American Historical Association.
            
               Writings on World War II. By Louis Morton. [Publication Number 661] (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, Inc., 1967. Pp. iv, 54. Notes, selected readings. Paperbound,
                    $. 75.)
            
               The Reappraisal of the American Revolution in Recent Historical Literature. By Jack
                    P. Greene. [Publication Number 68.1 (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, Inc., 1967. Pp. 82. Notes, references. Paperbound, $.75.)
            
            From The Berkeley Series in American History, edited by Charles Sellers, we have
                    received the following: The Truman-MacArthur Controversy. Edited by Richard
                    Lowitt. (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 58. Suggestions for further reading.
                    Paperbound.)
            
               Isolationism and Interventionism, 1932–1941. Edited by Paul Sothe Holbo. (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 60. Suggestions for further reading.
                    Paperbound.)
            
               The Jacksonians and the Money Power, 1829–1840. Edited by Frank Otto
                    Gatell. (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 59. Suggestions for further reading.
                    Paperbound.)
         
         
         
            Papers of Thomas Riley Marshall Desired
            John E. Brown, graduate student in history at Ball State University, is doing research on the vice
                    presidential years through the close of life of Woodrow Wilson's vice president
                    (1913–1921) and governor of Indiana (1909–1913). Letters, documents, or any
                    other information on 
                        Marshall
                    's public and private life are requested. Address all correspondence to John E.
                    Brown, Department of History, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana 47306.
         
         
            Papers of William Hendricks Desired
            Frederick D. Hill, professor of history at Indiana Central College, is writing his doctoral
                    dissertation on the entire political career of William Hendricks, United States congressman from
                    Indiana (1816–1822), governor of Indiana (1822–1825), and United States
                    senator (1825–1837). Letters, documents, diaries, or any other information on 
                        Hendricks
                    ' public and private life are requested. Address all correspondence to
                    Frederick D. Hill, Department of History, Indiana Central College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46227.
         
      
   
