
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 24, Issue 3, pages 139-221. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:24+issue:3+year:1928&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge
            By JOHN A. COFFIN
            
            PRE-SENATORIAL DAYS
            Albert Jeremiah Beveridge, author, lecturer, 
                        United States
                     Senator and historian, was born in 
                  Hiighland
                        County, Ohio
               , October 6, 1862.
                    Before the Civil War his father migrated from 
                        Virginia
                     to this county where he bought a farm. The four half-brothers as well as the father saw
                    service in the Union armies. Following the War, the family suffered business reverses, the farm was
                    lost, and the family then moved to Sullivan, 
                        Illinois
                    . The early education of Albert was meagre. As he grew older, he was able, by working
                    early and late, to acquire the rudiments of a high school course.
            The early occupations of the boy were of a strenuous nature. He was first employed on a farm at the
                    age of twelve. He worked on a railroad as a section hand for the next two years. He then spent a
                    year as a logger and a teamster. The following summer, at the age of sixteen, he was placed in
                    charge of a lumber camp, due to the fact that he was industrious and had a natural aptitude for
                    commanding men. It was here that he learned the "art of profanity." This habit
                    stayed with him, for the rough speech of this crude early environment  became rooted in him; however, it was merely a superficial habit.1
            
            In 1882, this slender, rugged young man, keen and alert of face, with a powerful jaw, gray-blue eyes,
                    and a perfect mop of long hair, secured fifty dollars and entered DePauw University, at
                            
                  Greencastle, Indiana
               . He registered in the classical course, one of those offered at
                    that time.2 Beveridge was a vigorous student from the beginning of his college
                    life to the end of his varied career. He was methodical in his study, had a great mount of
                    perseverance, and was almost incapable of either mental or physical fatigue. Greek and Latin were
                    required subjects in the classical course. The first year he took both languages. He had never
                    studied Latin so he had to start at the beginning in this as well as in Greek. At the end of the
                    first year he asked Dr. Edwin Post to give him an examination over the first two years of work in
                    Latin. It was an absurd request, in the opinion of Dr. Post, but he reluctantly consented. To his
                    utter amazement Beveridge passed the test making an excellent grade.3 In
                    addition to this extra work he competed in all academic contests open to him. In this field he was
                    unusually successful, winning every contest he entered the first year and every year thereafter with
                    but one exception.
            His assiduity as a student was exceptional. His varied activities were made possible by his scheme of
                    budgeting his time. He made out a daily program and adhered to it rigidly. In fact, he was so
                    diligent in living up to it that a fellow student states that, "There was not a minute of
                    the day that he did not know where Beveridge was if he had his schedule".∗ His rigid economy or conservation of time is exemplified by his allowing
                    himself only fifteen minutes for the general session at Langdon Hall after the evening meal, while
                    most of the students lingered an hour or more. On the campus he always walked as fast as possible
                    with his characteristic springy step, as if the next thing to be done could not wait another minute.
                    He was usually quite irritated if some one stopped him on the 
                  
                     1 Personal interview with Judge Clarence E. Martin, of the Indiana
                            Supreme Court, April B, 1928.
                  
                     2 Personal interview with Professor Joseph W. Piercy, Head of
                            Department of Journalism, Indiana University, April 12, 192S. Professor Piercy was a fellow
                            student of Mr. Beveridge at DePauw; David Graham Phillips, quoted in "Beveridge the
                            Unsquelchable" Current Literature, XLI, p. 512.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11, 1899.
                  
                     4 Professor Piercy, Personal interview, April 12, 1928.
               
                     campus, or came into his room to use his time idly,5 but he was always willing to take time for a worthy cause. Many times he
                    allowed himself only four hours of sleep, as his schedule of work for the early morning hours was
                    very heavy.6 His studies came first, while his pleasure and even his sleep were
                    of secondary importance.
            The Chief extra-curricular activity at the University was the Literary Club, commonly known by the
                    boys as "Old Plato". Interest in the organization lagged, in a way, except at
                    election times when politics was indulged in to a great extent. The opposing factions were led by
                    Beveridge on the one hand and by James E. Watson on the other. Such elections were excellent schools
                    for the application of practical politics. Between election days, the scheduled meetings usually
                    consisted of debates on a variety of subjects. It was a usual practice, after the regular business
                    was over, for someone to move that the regular order be dispensed with and that extemporaneous
                    debate be substituted. That usually meant a joint discussion between Beveridge and Charles Henry
                    Mc-Anny, of 
                        New Jersey
                    , who later became a well known Methodist minister.7
            
            Oratory at DePauw was one of the outstanding fields of endeavor. The student who could give an
                    excellent oration was admired as our college football star is to-day. Students interested in public
                    speaking put in as much time and effort in attaining skill as the modern athlete does. Speeches not
                    only had to be conceived and memorized but the voice had to be cultivated as well. Long before
                    sunrise, even in the winter months, Beveridge would set out across the fields to the woods to
                    practice his voice exercises, returning an hour or so before breakfast to study the classics or to
                    read the great orations.8 He purchased a book on elocution and studied it. As he
                    wrote out his first speeches, he would indicate here and there that certain gestures should be made.
                    He practiced these speeches and gestures before the mirror until he had the art fully mastered. In
                    later years his gestures came as a natural reaction
            
               
                        5
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  6 Phillips, in op. cit., p. 512.
               
                  7 Hillary A. Gobin, in Addresses, In Honor of Albert J.
                            Beveridge, February 5, 1917. p. 10.
               
                  8 Phillips, in op. cit., p. 512.
            
            
            The student who won the oratorical prize at DePauw earned one of the highest honors attainable. The
                    first year Beveridge was in school he won prizes in philosophy, science, and oratory. As a
                    sopohomore he won many oratorical prizes. While a junior he continued to take first place in every
                    oratorical contest, his efforts reaching a climax when he won the State oratorical contest. This
                    entitled him to compete with the representatives of all the colleges and universities in the West
                    and Northwest the following year. The great contest was held in 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , May 7,
                    1885. By winning this interstate contest, he reached the highest point of his college oratorical
                    career. On his return to the University, President Alexander Martin, the faculty, the band, the
                    student body, and townspeople escorted him through the streets to Meharry Hall where a large
                    audience had assembled to celebrate his victory. President Martin representing the faculty and the
                    administration gave a short speech of welcome, while James E. Watson represented the student
                        body.10
            
            While in the University Beveridge worked as steward of a boarding club to help pay his expenses.
                    During the summer months he sold books in a western State. His first year in this occupation was so
                    successful that the company, for which he worked, had him train a group of students to carry out the
                    work more extensively. After three months of preparation and practice on the townspeople of 
                        Greencastle
                    , he led his band of super-salesmen into the State of 
                        Iowa
                     to sell a book entitled Errors Chains, a history of religions. They
                    were so successful in fastening those "Chains" on the State that David Graham
                    Phillips remarks: "I do not think any other body of book sellers ever made so much money in
                    so short a time."11
            
            After graduating from the University, he went West and worked on a ranch to build up his health. On
                    his return, he was admitted to the law office of McDonald and 
                        Butler
                    ; and, after reading law for a year, was offered the position of managing clerk with the
                    duties of a junior partner. At first he declined the position stating that he was not sufficiently
                    prepared 
                  
                     8 Phillips, in op. cit., p. 512.
                  
                     9 Prof. Piercy, Personal interview, April 12, 1928.
                  
                     10 Phillips, in op. cit., p. 518; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, May 12, 1885; Prof. Piercy, Personal interview, July 2, 1928.
                            The subject of Beveridge's speech in this contest was "Capital and
                            Labor."
                  
                     11 Phillips, in op. cit., p. 512. While in 
                                Iowa
                             that year Beveridge first heard Jonathan P. Dolliver speak. He happened to be
                            in Des Moines at the time of the 
                                Iowa
                             State Convention. Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 3 Sess., p.
                        2835.
               
                     In answer to this McDonald stated that if they could stand his
                    lack of legal ability he ought to be able to accept. He finally accepted and stayed with them
                    approximately three years. He assited them ably in several important cases. One of the most noted,
                    and his first case before a jury, was that of the Massillon Bridge Company vs. the Commissioners of 
                        Lawrence County
                    . It was fiercely contested throughout with Benjamin Harrison and associates on the one
                    side and McDonald and associates on the other.12
            
            Beveridge began the practice of law for himself in 1889. He found it difficult to get started, but he
                    soon attracted the attention of Governor Alvin P. Hovey and others in the famous State
                    Officer's case. From this time on he was more successful.
            Early in his practice, Beveridge forsook the tedious, technical, and detailed side of the practice,
                    as well as the ordinary petty cases that consume the time of many lawyers. He confined himself to
                    those cases of greater importance where fundamental principles and questions relating to the
                    construction of our National and State Constitutions were involved. Whenever a case came up, in
                    which he was concerned, however trivial, it was tried upon issues of constitutional law, if any
                    possible relation thereto could be found.13 It was in this way, that he became
                    known in legal circles as a constitutional lawyer.14
            
            In this field he was exceptionally well versed. Mr. Noel, a contemporary lawyer, characterized his
                    knowledge of constitutional law in these words: 
                        The elastic clause of the Constitution, the Fourteenth Amendment, and the doctrine of implied
                            powers were his bed fellows.
                        The cases of Marbury vs. 
                                Madison
                            , Chilsholm vs. 
                                Georgia
                            , McCullough vs. 
                                Maryland
                            , Ae Dredd Scott Case, the Granger Case and numerous other landmarks of our
                            judicial history were as familiar to him as they are unfamiliar to the practioner of the
                            police courts.15
                  
                    
            
            Francis E. Baker, a former Indiana Supreme Court judge, in speaking of him as a practitioner in the
                    courts stated: "He clearly perceived the points of issue, and no man more ably, eloquently,
                    or thoroughly performed the duties of a lawyer."16
            
            
               
                  12
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 11, 1899; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, January 11, 1899.
               
                  13 James W. Noel, in Addresses, In Honor of Albert J.
                            Beveridge, February 5, 1917, p. 10.
               
                  14 His library in the field of constitutional law was unexcelled in the
                        State. Personal interview with James W. Noel, April 5, 1928.
               
                  15 Noel, in Addresses, p. 15.
               
                  16 Judge Baker, in Toasts, Given at Dinner in Honor of Albert
                            J, Beveridge, p. 17. Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Coffin gave the dinner on January 13,
                    1899.
            
            
            The language that Beveridge used in his arguments and the manner in which this accomplished orator
                    presented and pleaded his cases were unusually convincing. Judge Baker relates the following court
                    incident, which is a sample of the powers of Beveridge in this respect. He brought a damage suit for
                    a man who had been wrongfully ejected from a train, by the conductor, in the belief that his
                    thousand-mile ticket did not belong to him. The case was tried twice. As a result of the first
                    trial, Mr. Beveridge recovered for his client a verdict of one thousand dollars. The verdict was set
                    aside. On the second trial, he saw the interested jurymen, who heard the case, with elbows on their
                    knees, drinking in the eloquence, pathos, and wit of the orator with the same eagerness that a young
                    robin watches the return of the mother bird with its morning meal. He swept the jury off its feet as
                    he described the awful anguish which this client had suffered by being put off the train. The jury
                    awarded the client $2,500. One of the most eminent lawyers of the city made a motion for
                    a new trial on the ground that the award was far too large. Judge Baker observed with dry humor that
                    the verdict awarded by the jury was indeed two or three times what it should be, but added that he
                    feared to set it aside lest if Mr. Beveridge be given a chance to take the case a third time, he
                    should persuade the jury to give his client a verdict of $5,000.17
            
            Mr. Noel also avers that Beveridge secured an acquittal from a jury in a hopeless case by making an
                    argument upon State comity, with a peroration upon the American Flag.18
            
            Beveridge's success in law was unusual. He obtained a high place in his profession largely
                    because of his natural ability, his industry, his versatility, his fine power of analysis, and his
                    quick resistance to sophistry.19
            
            The first important connection that Beveridge had with politics in Indiana was in 1884 at which time
                    he started on his "stumping" tours of the State for the Republican party. He made
                    his first speech in a rural blacksmith shop in 
                        Parke County
                     and the next in a barn in the same county. Soon afterward he was scheduled to speak at
                            
                  Bloomington, Indiana
               . The Republicans from three counties had gathered to hear a
                    speech 
                  
                     17 Judge Baker, in op. tit., p. 18.
                  
                     18 Noel, in Addresses, p. 15.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., p. 15; John B. Cooknim, in Toasts, Given at Dinner in Honor of A. J. Beveridge, p. 38. Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Coffin gave
                            the dinner on January 18, 1899.
               
                     which they assumed was to be given by the Honorable John L.
                    Beveridge, ex-Governor of 
                        Illinois
                    . When the members of the committee saw this raw-boned, white faced college lad step
                    from the train and answer to the name of Beveridge, they were astounded. A feeling of disgust took
                    possession of all who had gathered there, and it soon looked as if he were to be without an
                    audience. It was necessary, then, that he lose no time. He was introduced and began his speech at
                    once. His oratory and his fluent use of English soon won him the attention and sympathy of the
                    audience. He talked for three hours and made such an impression that he was asked by the 
                        Bloomington
                     Republicans to speak in every subsequent campaign.20
            
            His speeches were well prepared and well delivered. His broad, sweeping, terse statements at the
                    beginning of each topic of discussion and then the expanding of these statements in a logical way
                    made it possible for him to greatly influence his audience and convince waverers. He appealed to the
                    intellect and to the reason of his audience as well as to the emotions.
            In those days oratory counted a great deal in getting votes, and in this respect Beveridge had no
                    peer. He adapted his discourses to his audiences in order to make his pleas more effective. He also
                    knew how to take care of local elections; and after each speech, as a rule, he privately instructed
                    the local politicians on election procedure.21 Needless to say the party often
                    gained votes in localities in which he spoke.
            In subsequent campaigns Beveridge toured the State, in his characteristic way, in the interests of
                    the Republican party. He had large and enthusiastic audiences at every meeting for he was one of the
                    most popular political speakers of the time. While on these tours he made many friends; and,
                    although he did not organize them for personal benefit, he found them to be loyal supporters when he
                    sought his first political office.
            Not only did the Republican party in Indiana use this orator to further its interests, but the party
                    in other States frequently called upon him to speak for them in campaign years. 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 11, 1899; Personal interview with Judge James B. Wilson, of 
                                Bloomington
                            , July 8, 1928. Judge Wilson was a member of the committee in charge of this 
                                Bloomington
                             meeting.
                  
                     21 Dr. Logan Esarey, Professor of History at Indiana University, was
                            present at a Tell City meeting on October 15, 1898. He relates that while the audience drank
                            their cider and ate their doughnuts and apples, Beveridge held a caucus back stage and gave
                            them a number one lesson on election tactics. He knew every card and how and when to play
                            it. Personal interview with Dr. Esarey, October 21, 1927.
               
                     He was also asked to speak on many other occasions by various
                    organizations. His first speech, outside the State, that attracted national attention, was given
                    before the Union League Club of 
                        Chicago
                     on February 22, 1895, in response to a toast, "
                        Washington
                     As A 
                        Patriot
                    ". He was asked to speak to the 
                        Hamilton
                     Club of 
                        Chicago
                     at its dinner in celebration of the birthday of Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    . With a speech at the 
                        Chicago
                     Auditorium on October 30, 1896, he closed the Republican National Campaign in the West.
                    On February 12, 1897, he addressed the Marquette Club of 
                        Chicago
                     and in the same year the Clover Club of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The former speech was instrumental in bringing him the friendship of Lyman J. Gage,
                    Secretary of the Treasury, and Charles G. Dawes, Comptroller of the Currency. In January, 1898, he
                    spoke to the Bar Association of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on "The Vitality of the American Constitution". This was considered a
                    masterpiece by those who heard it, and the Club had it printed for distribution. He was a co-speaker
                    with Theodore Roosevelt at the Republican Club of 
                        New York
                     over which the late Chauncey M. Depew presided. On April 27, 1898, three days before
                    the beginning of Dewey's operations in the East, he spoke to an audience in 
                        Boston
                    , at which time he declared: 
                        Our field of operations is not confined to 
                                Cuba
                            . We are at war with 
                                Spain
                            . In the Pacific is the true field of our earliest operations. The Philippine
                            Archipelago is there; we must strike the most vulnerable part of the enemy. We must sail to
                            meet the enemy and not wait for her to come.22
                  
                    
            
            This was an early public utterance dealing with our affairs in the 
                        Philippines
                    . On it is based the contention that Bev-eridge was the "Original
                    Expansionist" of that era. This idea was further explained and expanded in a speech given
                    at Tomlinson Hall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , entitled "The March of the Flag". In this way Beveridge not only
                    became nationally known as a political speaker but as a lecturer as well.
            He was married to Miss Katherine Langdale of 
                        Greencastle
                    , in 1888. The date set for his marriage came at the time when he was engaged in the
                    important Massilon Bridge Company case,23 but Judge Woods adjourned court for a
                    day to allow the 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11, 1899.
                  
                     23 See above, p. 7.
               
                     young attorney to get married. He was back in court the
                    following day.
            Beveridge was always interested in the Bible and read it extensively. He was interested in it more
                    from the viewpoint of good literature than from its religious teachings. His lecture, "The
                    Bible is Good Reading", and a statement to one of his college associates, that "I
                    would not be a preacher for a world of diamonds",24 proves this rather
                    conclusively. He joined the Methodist church after the officials had accepted his reservation that
                    he should never be disciplined because of his spasmodic use of profanity.25
            
            Prior to his election to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, Beveridge had not had any legislative experience, nor had be held any political
                    office. He had loyally and unselfishly toured the State for the Republican party, and was known as a
                    student, lawyer, and an accomplished orator.
            ELECTION TO THE SENATE
            Between 1888 and 1892, the Republican party declined to the extent that the Democrats were able to
                    elect a President, and, in Indiana, to send enough men to the State Legislature to elect a
                    Democratic Senator, David Turpie. Soon thereafter the Republican party was reorganized and new life
                    was infused into its ranks. This, together with various other factors, especially the economic
                    depression following the panic of 1893, carried the party to success in many subsequent campaigns.
                    The Democrats were overwhelmingly defeated in the congressional elections of 1894. In 1896, a
                    Republican President was elected, together with enough Republican members of the State Legislature
                    in Indiana to elect Charles 
                        Warren
                     Fairbanks to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Following in the wake of this decisive victory came the congressional and State
                    elections of 1898.
            The Democratic party in Indiana held its State convention on June 22, 1898, over which Senator Turpie
                    presided. The platform as adopted sanctioned William J. Bryan's theory of money, and
                    expressed opposition to the gold standard: 
                  
                     24 Hillary A. Gobin, in Addresses, p. 10.
                  
                     25 Judge Martin, Personal interview, April 5. 1928.
               
                    
                    
                        The practice of the treasury in paying treasury notes in gold only … is chiefly
                            responsible for the money depression now; is destructive to business enterprise, dangerous
                            to public credit and prosperity of the people, and a serious menace to the national
                        honor.
                    
            
            The usual Democratic view of the tariff was expressed, and the Dingley act, under which trusts and
                    combinations had multiplied, and the cost of the necessaries of life had increased, was condemned.
                    The platform favored the construction of a Nicaraguan canal as a national enterprise, election of
                    Senators by the people, direct primaries, and the establishment of inheritance and income taxes. It
                    was in sympathy with the social legislation passed iin the last two General Assemblies and
                    recommended a revision of county and township government.1 Samuel M. Ralston,
                    nominee for Secretary of State, headed the ticket.2
            
            The Republican party held its State convention on August 4-5, 1898, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Competition was keen for the various places on the ticket because the Republicans felt
                    sure of success in the fall election, and believed that nomination practically meant election. Union
                    B. Hunt of 
                        Winchester
                    , was placed at the head of the ticket.3
            
            The platform as adopted heartily indorsed the McKinley administration and the prosecution of the war
                    with 
                        Spain
                    . It was not less emphatic than the Democratic platform on the money question, stating:
                        
                        We are unreservedly for sound money and are therefore opposed to the heresy to which the
                            Democratic party is wedded… which we regard as absolutely sure to debase our
                            money and destroy our private and public credit and cause general business disaster. We
                            recognize the necessity of comprehensive and enlightened monetary legislation, and believe
                            that the declaration in the 
                                St. Louis
                             National Republican platform for the maintenance of the gold standard and the
                            parity of all our forms of money should be given the vitality of public law.
                    
            
            A tariff for protection was upheld, and sanction was given to the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands
                    and to the construction of a Nicaraguan canal by the 
                        United States
                     government. The platform recommended a restriction on immigration to protect American
                    labor, approved the social legislation passed 
                  
                     1 Indiana, Legislative and State Manual, 1899, pp.
                            602 ff.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 28, 1898.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 4 and 5, 1898.
               
                     by the last two General Assemblies, and favored a primary
                    election law.4
            
            The Republican campaign was well organized by the State Chairman, Charles S. Hernly. Congressional
                    candidates were delegated to look after affairs in their respective districts, J. Frank Hanly and
                    Albert J. Beveridge, Indiana's best campaigners, were sent throughout the State in the
                    interests of the party. They were assisted by Charles W. Fairbanks, Robert S. Taylor, Frank B.
                    Posey, and others. President McKinley visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 21, while on his western tour, to aid his Republican friends in the State.
            The chief controversial point of the campaign was the money question. Congressman Overstreet of the
                    Seventh district was sponsoring the Gold Standard bill that had been drafted and recommended by the
                    Monetary Commission of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Convention.5 The Democrats exerted every effort to defeat
                    Overstreet for by so doing they would, in a way, be dealing a death blow to the gold standard. On
                    the whole, the Republicans appealed to the people to uphold the Administration in its prosecution of
                    the war by electing a Republican ticket, and stressed the return of prosperity, that had set in with
                    the election of McKinley, and the Republican pledge for the gold standard and sound money.6
            
            The election on November 8, was the more keenly anticipated, because the outcome would determine the
                    political affiliation of the next 
                        United States
                     Senator. The returns from the election, as they came in, indicated that it was a
                    Republican landslide; and when the final count was made, Union B. Hunt, as Secretary of State,
                    received a plurality of 16,336. This was more than a thousand votes above the State Republican
                    plurality of 1896, and was indicative of the election as a whole. Nine Republican Congressmen were
                    elected, fifty-nine Republicans were sent to the lower house in the State Legislature and, in the
                    State Senate, including the holdovers, the Republicans had 
                  
                     4 Indiana, Legislative and State Manual, 1899, pp.
                            598 ff.
                  
                     5 The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Monetary Convention was a meeting of representative Boards of Trade, Chambers
                            of Commerce, Commercial Clubs, and other similar bodies of the 
                                United States
                            . They appointed a Monetary Commission naming H. H. Hanna as Chairman. After
                            drafting the bill they organized a strong lobby to promote it. Report of the
                                Monetary Commission, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, October 3, 1898.
                  
                     6 Obviously prosperity was not entirely due to the election of
                            McKinley and the Republican pledge for the gold standard, but these factors played a part in
                            it—exactly how great a part it is hard to determine. Prosperity at this time was
                            world wide and not confined to the 
                                United States
                             alone. However, this was a good campaign argument. For tables showing the
                            increase of business activity between 1896-1898 in Indiana see House
                            Documents, LXXII, 55 Cong., 8 Sess., pp. 421-424.
               
                     twenty-nine members.7 On joint ballot the
                    Republicans would have a majority of twenty-six. Thus it was assured that a Republican Senator would
                    be elected when the General Assembly should convene in January.
            The next political question for Indiana to settle was, "Who shall be the next
                    Senator?" Several well-known men were considered as senatorial possibilities, among whom
                    were: Judge Robert S. Raylor of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , seasoned senatorial timber; Major George W. Steel of 
                        Marion
                    , an excellent politician; Frank B. Posey, favorite son of Evansville and the
                    "Pocket"; J. Frank Hanly of 
                        LaFayette
                    , reputed to be the "poor man's friend"; Albert J. Beveridge,
                    the lawyer and orator; Benjamin Harrison, ex-President; James A. Mount, Governor of Indiana; Hugh H.
                    Hanna, the "sound money" advocate who had helped draft the Overstreet financial
                    bill; General Lew Wallace of Civil War and "Ben Hur" fame; and Addison C. Harris,
                    prominent lawyer of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From this galaxy of well qualified men the legislators of Indiana were to choose a 
                        United States
                     Senator.
            Early developments brought out the fact that five of the above named men were actively engaged in the
                    race, and had chances of getting the coveted Senatorial toga. From the first it seemed that J. Frank
                    Hanly, as the leader of the younger and more progressive group in the Republican party, had the lead
                    and would ultimately be successful. He was experienced in politics; had been a member of the State
                    legislature and the National House; and had a personal machine working for him. He also had the
                    advantage of an early start. His candidacy for the Senate was brought about by the fact that he was
                    defeated by one-half of a vote in the tenth district primary convention for the nomination to
                    Congress by Edward D. Crumpacker of 
                        Valparaiso
                    .8 It was evident to Crumpacker that Hanly could, if he wished,
                    defeat him in the fall election by throwing his support to the opponent. To get Hanly's
                    support the friends of Crumpacker approached Hanly on the Senate proposition, promising him the
                    tenth district vote if he would support Crumpacker. When Hanly was assured of the ten votes of this
                    district, he definitely decided to enter the race.9 From that 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Nov. 15, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 11, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 11, 1899.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 10, 1898.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 16, 1898.
               
                     time he was busy organizing his forces all over the State and
                    asking for first choice votes in the event that the Republicans were successful in the fall
                        election.10
            
            Robert S. Taylor, best known as a judge and a member of the Mississippi River
                    Commission, was a very able man. He had the support of the northern part of the State, and, as a
                    leader of the more conservative element of the party, was considered a serious contender from the
                        first.11
            
            Major George W. Steele of 
                        Marion
                    , member of Congress from the eleventh district, was a leader of the more conservative
                    element also. He was an active politician who took good care of his friends when political
                    "plums" were passed out. He had had ten years of experience in Congress. He held
                    aloof from the race for awhile in order to see how much voluntary support he could get, for he
                    disliked the idea of entering the field immediately and attempting to drag men into his service. In
                    his survey he found that he had the loyal support of his own district together with promised votes
                    of several other members of the Legislature. Senator Fairbanks favored him. This seemed to warrant
                    his entrance into the race, so he formally announced his candidacy on December 4.12
            
            Frank B. Posey, who had been a candidate for the gubernatorial nomination in 1896, was active during
                    the early part of the contest but his business kept him at home, for the most part, during the month
                    of December. His political interests, however, were looked after by his friends who secured for him
                    the support of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     and other portions of the "pocket."13
            
            Early in 1898, Beveridge happened to be in the office of James W. Noel, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney, talking to a group of friends who had assembled there. During the conference
                    Beveridge expressed the desire to be a 
                        United States
                     Senator. The discussion which followed this announcement centered on the great
                    difficulties that would have to be overcome and not on the question of his ability to serve his
                    country with distinction. He was at a great disadvantage by reason of his age, his geographical
                    location, and the unusual ability of other candidates. After much discussion these men decided that
                    they 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., Nov. 19, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 27, 1898.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 20, 1898.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 3 and 4, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 4, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Dec. 4, 1898.
                  
                     13 Personal interview with Dr. Logan Esarey, April 21, 1928.
               
                     would do all within their power to secure his nomination. Mr.
                    Noel, Alfred M. Glossbrenner, and Lars A. Whitcomb decided to run for the lower house of the State
                    Legislature while Frederick A. Joss was to be a candidate for the State Senate. Frank Littleton, the
                    other member present, had been in the legislature before and had already decided to try for
                    reelection. These men were all successful in securing nominations and were elected in November. Thus
                    the nucleus of Beveridge's support in the General Assembly was formed.14
            
            Beveridge's candidacy for the Senate was a surprise to many Indiana politicians, and it
                    caused much speculation in regard to his probable success. Men who were best acquainted with
                    politics in Indiana regarded his candidacy as a mere joke because of his tender years and his
                    inexperience in political life.15 Some people thought that he had an equal
                    chance with the other candidates,16 though seasoned leaders viewed his candidacy
                    as a device to get himself before the public, as well as to test his political strength, and that
                    his real desire was the governorship two years later." Whatever the result of this attempt
                    for his election to the Senate might be, his friends considered that the battle would be worth the
                        effort.18
            
            Governor Mount did not choose to be a candidate for the Senate. Perhaps he secretly favored
                        Beveridge,19 preferring him to the older candidates.20
                    Addison G. Harris and Hugh H. Hanna failed to make impressive showings. The former was considered a
                    good "dark horse" in case of a deadlock, while the latter, according to the
                    consensus of opinion in political circles, would make an excellent treasury official but was not
                    fitted for a legislative post.21 General Lew Wallace let it be known that he
                    would accept the office if the members of the Legislature saw fit to tender it to him. In the
                    meantime, he was said to be favoring Beveridge.22
            
            There was much favorable sentiment throughout the country for the selection of ex-President Harrison.
                    The 
                        New York
                    
                    
                  
                     14 Noel, in Addresses, p. 18; Noel, Interview, April
                            5, 1928.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 19, 1898.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Nov. 6, 1898.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., Nov. 16, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 19, 1898.
                  
                     18 Noel, in Addresses, p. 13; Noel, Interview, April
                            5, 1928.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 8, 1898.
                  
                     20 Personal letter from C. E. Coffin to the writer, Nov. 11, 1927.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 14, 1898.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., Nov. 25, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 22, 1898.
               
                    
                    Evening Mail, the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Transcript, and the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer, asked the country, and especially Indiana not to send
                    "pigmies" to the Senate, but urged that "big" men of intellect,
                    character, and ability be chosen.23 The Senate had been often characterized, at
                    this time, as a "millionaires' club" because so many wealthy men had been
                    chosen to that body.24 Everyone agreed that Harrison would add dignity and
                    ability to the Senate which would help to restore it to its former prestige. Harrison declined to be
                    an active candidate, but it was understood that he would accept should the choice fall on him.25
            
            The Democratic members of the Legislature held a caucus on December 19 to consider what part they
                    should or could play in the coming senatorial election. They were well aware of their situation as a
                    minority party and some were opposed to giving Senator Turpie a complimentary vote. They also fully
                    understood the situation in the Republican camp. With conflict within their own ranks and with so
                    many Republican candidates in the field, the Democrats decided that it would be for the benefit of
                    all to propose that if the Republicans would agree to give up their favorites and offer Harrison the
                    nomination, they would support him and thus make his election unanimous.26 This
                    proposal was not accepted. Some of the Republicans favored it, while others viewed it with
                    suspicion, seeing in it an attempt to get them "in a hole" and to shelve the
                    candidates already in the field.27 The plan failed not because Harrison was
                    unacceptable, but because of too much "politics" and because there were too many
                    interested candidates in the field.28 The five active candidates soon
                    established their headquarters at the Denison Hotel and endeavoured to perfect their organizations
                    as well as to get more votes definitely pledged.
            Hanly had organiyed the younger progressive element of the party for his support. Will R. Wood of 
                        LaFayette
                     and Congressman Charles L. Henry of Anderson were the chief men in his organization.
                    Henry was particularly active and the story was spread throughout the State that his ardent support
                    came as a result of an agreement—Hanly for the Senate now, and 
                  
                     23 Quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 14, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 6. 1898.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., Jan. 14, 1899.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., Dec. 6, 1898.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 20, 1898.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 19, 1898.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 20, 1898.
               
                     Henry for the governorship two years later. Henry had been
                    defeated in the last nominating convention of his congressional district by George W. Cromer of 
                        Muncie
                    . Many people thought that there was no other explanation for his cordial support of
                    Hanly except his wish to be Governor, and all evidence seemed to point in that direction.29 It later developed that George Mc-Culloch, of 
                        Muncie
                    , was working for Hanly as well as others active in politics in that district.
            It soon became evident that Hanly had a well developed political machine—one that had been
                    carefully planned and organized.80 He had a local organization in each district
                    and received reports daily. Each local organizations, as the time of the caucus drew near, sent a
                    delegation to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the purpose of aiding Hanly in every possible way.81 The belief
                    in the strength of this organization can best be judged by the statements of those closely connected
                    with it. A. F. Knotts, of 
                        Hammond
                    , made this statement: "The organization for Hanly cannot be broken under any
                    circumstance for it is perfect."23 Hanly made this assertion:
                    "Our forces are compact and our organization perfect. We are confident of
                        success."33
            
            Many members of General Assembly, as well as others who were interested in politics, were opposed to
                    this new political machine. They believed that the members of Hanly's organization had been
                    promised the party's patronage for several years in advance in order to get their support.
                    The chief objection to it, however, was the fact that influential Republicans throughout the State
                    had not been consulted, and if Hanly should be successful, they would be left out of the councils of
                    the party entirely.34
            
            Beveridge and his friends soon began to perfect an organization. Sid Conger of 
                        Shelby County
                    , an old and experienced politician, and John Wingate of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , a friend of Lew Wallace, were put in nominal charge of his campaign. They immedately
                    began to work in the rural areas.85 There was strategy in this move, for
                    sectional feeling was strong throughout the State. In fact it was so strong that combinations 
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 16, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Dec. 22, 1898.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 3, 1899.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., Jan. 5, 1899.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 4, 1899.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 6, 1899.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., Jan. 8, 4, and 7, 1899.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 22, 1898.
               
                     against 
                        Indianapolis
                     candidates had often been perfected in the past. By selecting these two out-of-the-city
                    men, they hoped to allay some of this sectional antagonism as well as gain votes from the two
                    districts thus honored. It was also a move to make his organization more evenly balanced. By having
                    rural politicians as well as 
                        Indianapolis
                     men in charge of his campaign an appeal to all classes and localities could be more
                    effectively made.
            Conger and Wingate left no stone unturned that would further the interests of their candidate. They
                    attended a political gathering, soon after they arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to take charge of things, and in walked Beveridge wearing a new silk hat. Sid and John
                    looked at each other in astonishment as he removed his hat and put it on a chair. After the meeting
                    a conference was held, at which time Beveridge was told by his managers that the hat would not do at
                    all and would have to be discarded. Beveridge finally consented, and from then on wore a soft black
                        hat.36
            
            A group of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens organized a "Business Men's Association" to further
                    the candidacy of Beveridge. It was, at first, a local organization; but seeing that it was something
                    that had been overlooked by the other candidates, and believing in it as a great source of
                    influence, it was decided to form a State-wide organization of the same nature. One hundred
                    representative business men from all parts of the State were brought together in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 28 to perfect their organization. They elected D. M. Parry, President; John
                    V. Coney, Secretary; and Charles E. Coffin, Treasurer. They raised $1,200 to pay the
                    necessary expenses of office rent, postage, stationery, etc. Before adjourning, they unanimously
                    resolved to support Beveridge for the Senate, because they held that he would best serve their
                    interests. They were Beveridge men who took this method to impress the public and the members of the
                    Legislature. They decided to open headquarters at the Denison hotel on January 4 and do all that
                    they could to further his candidacy.37
            
            On the whole the men working for Beveridge were shrewd, tactful, diplomatic, and sincere. They worked
                    earnestly; antagonized no one; put forth their candidate on his merit only; 
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., Jan. 3, 1899.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 28, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 29, 1898; Letter from C. E. Coffin, Nov. 11, 1927; Noel,
                            Interview.
               
                     asked for and secured second choice votes when first choice
                    votes could not be had; and asked that the young element in the party be recognized.38
            
            The increased activity of the Hanly men during the latter part of December was a source of much alarm
                    to the other candidates. A survey was made by them to determine the actual status of affairs, and it
                    was found that Hanly had promises of twenty-nine votes.39 With his early
                    commanding lead Hanly's chances for success seemed particularly bright. The other four
                    candidates now realized that they would have to combine their efforts if they wished to defeat him.
            Judge Taylor did not play a very active part in the events which followed. He was confident that he
                    could hold the votes of his section, and was too reserved to go out and scramble for more. He would
                    only come into the lobby of the hotel, wherethe politicians gathered, for a short time after his
                    evening meal, and then return to his room at the first opportunity. After one of these
                    characteristic visits a disgusted friend ex-claimed: "He is a h—of a
                    politician."
            Frank B. Posey was similarly disposed. He seemed to be satisfied with his following and loathed the
                    idea of running after other votes. "It is a disgraceful scene", he remarked as∗ he viewed the efforts of the men in the Denison lobby. "I
                    may be defeated, but I shall still have my self respect."40
            
            Major Steele was the avowed leader of the attack on Hanly. He was especially embittered toward Hanly,
                    because George McCulloch of 
                        Muncie
                     was now working for him. The preceding summer Steele had called on McCulloch, and, in
                    the course of their conference, McCulloch had promised his support to Steele, together with the nine
                    votes of the eighth congressional district, if Steele would aid him in securing the appointment of
                    Lee Coffeen, a civil war veteran, as postmaster of 
                        Muncie
                    . Steele promised to do this, and, on his return to 
                        Washington
                    , did all that he could do to secure the place for Coffeen. McCulloch evidently thought
                    that Steele was not influential enough, so while he was in 
                        Washington
                    , during the latter part of December, he called on Senator Fairbanks to solicit his
                    support. Fairbanks failed to give him much satisfaction. McCulloch returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     disguested with these men and 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 11, 1899; Noel, in Addresses, p. 13.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Dec. 24, 1898.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Dec. 80, 1898.
               
                     with the determination to get a friendly Senator who would be
                    able to divide the appointing power with Fairbanks. Fairbanks was supporting Steele, so McCulloch
                    went over to Hanly talking the vote of his district with him. When Steele learned of this he burst
                    into a passion swearing to obtain vengeance if a chance should ever come.41
            
            This turn of events almost ruined Steele's chances for the Senate, but he would not concede
                    Hanly the victory without a strenuous fight. He began his attack by causing Robert 
                        Mansfield
                    , former Secretary of the Republican State Committee, to publish a letter which revealed
                    the fact that Hanly had charged seventy-five dollars a week in addition to his travelling expenses
                    for his services in the campaign of 1896. Others, the letter asserted, had given their time freely,
                    and in some cases had paid their own expenses.42 In addition to this Hanly and
                    his former associates in Congress were charged with having organized a "Congressional
                    Syndicate"—an offensive and defensive alliance to stand against all comers and
                    to see that those turned down by the exigencies of politics should secure places.43 To substantiate this assertion they pointed out that R. J. Trace-well, Representative from
                    the third district in the fifty-fourth Congress, had been made Comptroller of the Treasury; J. D.
                    Leighty, Representative from the twelfth district in the same Congress, had been appointed Pension
                    Agent for Indiana. The latter was now at 
                        Indianapolis
                     working for Hanly and against Beveridge. Congressmen Hemenway and Crumpacker were also
                    for Hanly. The evidence tended to prove rather conclusively that it was now the aim of the
                    organization to place Hanly into the Senate.44 Steele also began to spread the
                    rumor that the business interests of the country were contributing heavily to Hanly's
                    campaign funds. Hanly had started his campaign with the slogan, "The poor man's
                    candidate", and now he seemed to be spending more money than any of the other candidates.
                    He had engaged fourteen rooms at the Denison, and was entertaining his friends in style. Paying
                    hotel bills, Steele contended, was a polite way of buying votes.45 These things
                    found their way into many newspapers, were talked about incessantly, 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 29, 1898, and Jan. 4, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 3, 1899; Personal interview with George W. Cromer, a 
                                Muncie
                             politician, Nov. 25, 1927.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 3, 1899.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., Jan. 9, 1899.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 28, 1898, Jan. 3 and 4, 1899.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 4, 1899 i 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 3 and 5, 1899.
               
                     and no doubt played a large part in influencing those who had
                    not yet pledged their votes to give them to one of the other candidates.
            The General Assembly was to convene on January 5, 1899. As this day drew near, the candidates laid
                    plans for the organization of the two houses in such a way as would best serve their interests. By
                    controlling and dealing out favors, they could use them to advantage in obtaining additional caucus
                    votes. The first and most important officer to be elected was the Speaker of the House. A. H.
                    Shideler of 
                        Marion
                    , Frank Littleton of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Benjamin Willoughby of 
                        Evansville
                     were the chief contenders. Steele was fully aware of the sectional feeling in the
                    State, and he knew that if Shideler should be elected to the speakership, that this would be a
                    stumbling block in his own way to the Senate, because the eleventh district, in the opinion of many,
                    would then have its share of the patronage. On the other hand, if Littleton could be elected this
                    would be a direct thrust at Beveridge's chance for securing the nomination.46 Hanly, too, realized the importance of the Speakership. He at first intimated that he
                    would support Willoughby in return for caucus votes from the "pocket". When he
                    found out that Posey had these votes definitely pledged, and that Willoughby could give him very
                    little actual support, he turned to the support of Littleton as a means of heading off Beveridge.
                    Bestowing too many "plums" on 
                        Marion County
                     would be the surest way to "kill" the young candidate of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .47
            
            The friends of Beveridge knew the exact meaning of this move, and they often talked to him about it.
                    A group of his friends came to him one day to insist that he should ask Littleton to renounce his
                    candidacy, for they thought it impossible to bring about the election of a Speaker of the House and
                    a second 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They got no further than the mere suggestion, for Beveridge, springing to his feet,
                    exclaimed: 
                        Gentlemen, not another word. Frank Littleton is one of the best friends I have in the -world.
                            He is a candidate for Speaker as I am for Senator. I would rather go down in defeat than
                            imperil by any selfish action of mine the chance of my friend for the office he seeks.48
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  46
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Dec. 9, 1898.
               
                  47
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Dec. 8, 1898, Jan. 4, 1899; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 81, 1898.
               
                  48 Justus C. Adams, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Jan. 12, 1899.
            
            
            On January 1, Shideler formally withdrew from the race for the speakership on assurance that he would
                    be named chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means.49 This aided
                    Steele's chances for the Senate. When the General Assembly met on January 5, the House
                    proceeded to elect Littleton to the speakership. In the organization of both houses the Hanly forces
                    were so strong that the supporters of the other candidates had to bow to their dictation in order to
                    secure any of the patronage that was to be given out.50 This was the first
                    actual test of strength, and it definitely proved that the Hanly1 forces were
                    strong and practically in control of the situation. Hanly and his men were now confident of success
                    in the contest for the senatorship.51
            
            The four candidates who were competing with Hanly agreed to hold a caucus on January 5 to compare
                    notes and to decide, if possible, on some one man to support. They were unable to decide who should
                    withdraw from the race. They reasoned that if one or more should withdraw that pledged votes would
                    be released, and that enough would probably go over to Hanly to elect him. Therefore, they decided
                    to "sit tight", hold their pledged votes until the caucus on January 10, and then
                    let the Republican members of the two houses unite of their own accord, in a natural way, on the
                    strongest candidate. This plan would not permit Hanly to do any extra electioneering at the time
                    when combinations were taking place.52
            
            The survey showed that Taylor had seventeen votes pledged; Beveridge, thirteen; Posey, thirteen;
                    Steele, ten; and Harris, one. They thus controlled fifty-four votes. They conceded thirty-one votes
                    to Hanly, while four of the regular Republican members remained unpledged.53 If
                    each could actually hold those pledged him, Hanly could not be elected. For the next five days, the
                    four candidates went about getting their followers to reaffirm their pledges. At the same time they
                    urged them, under no consideration, to vote for Hanly. However, none stipulated which one of the
                    four candidates his delegates should ultimately vote for.54 Under these
                    circumstances, 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., Jan. 2, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 1, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 2, 1899.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 5, 1899.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., and 5, 1899.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., Jan. 4 and 5, 1899.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 5, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 5, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 5, 1899.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 6, 1899.
               
                     it was obvious that the man who should be the second choice of
                    the greatest number of the Republican legislators would be nominated.
            While Major Steele and his friends were bringing forth their charges against Hanly, Beveridge and his
                    friends were seemingly inactive. Now and then a legislator would announce himself for Beveridge
                    without any apparent solicitation.55 Several such announcements were made from
                    December 28 to January 6, on which date, Francis T. Roots, of 
                        Connersville
                    , a prominent member of the House, emphatically announced that he was in favor of
                        Beveridge.58 His announcement seemed to inaugurate a Beveridge boom.
            The "Business Men's Association," a political organization formed by
                    friends of Beveridge for the purpose of pushing his candidacy, then began activities by inviting
                    prominent business men from all over the State to call on them at the Denison. They also became
                    active for Beveridge among the various legislators. A large number of telegrams signed by business
                    men asking for Beveridge's election were sent in.57 Petitions that had
                    been passed around and signed by leading business firms were received.58 Straw
                    votes were taken at railroad shops and manufacturing establishments, and all of them favored
                    Beveridge. McCormick of the Labor Commission and one hundred laboring men came to the hotel and
                    emphatically announced themselves for him. Lawyers of the city began to talk in his favor, and, in
                    fact nothing had been overlooked that would in any possible way contribute to his success.59
            
            There was so much activity in the Beveridge camp that the other candidates were almost bewildered.
                    They thought that in the deal for the speakership they had side-tracked Beveridge, and therefore,
                    they had not given him much consideration since Littleton had been made Speaker. But because of this
                    increased activity, Beveridge was becoming the strongest of the four candidates who were opposing
                    Hanly. This prepared boom came late, as his managers had planned, in order that the 
                  
                     55 Senator William M. Lambert announced that he was for Beveridge on
                            Dec. 28; Alexander M. Scott of 
                                Ladoga
                             on Jan. 4: and Jesse C. Stevens on Jan. 6. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 28, 1898; Jan. 4, 1899, and June 6, 1899.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 6, 1899.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 5, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 5, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 5, 1899.
                  
                     58 The chief one came from Anderson. Sanford M. Keltner was the
                            sponsor. This created quite a stir in the Capital for all the Legislators from that district
                            were for Hanly. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 5, 1899; Letter from Keltner to the writer, Nov. 12, 1927.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 10, 1899.
               
                     others should have no time to plan anything to counteract his
                    sudden popularity. He had antagonized no faction and had played the game squarely,60 so they had no reason to oppose him other than their personal desires to win.
            Fairbanks had emphatically stated that he would take no part in this senatorial election either
                    directly or indirectly.61 However, many things seemed to prove that he was
                    secretly working for the benefit of his own interests. Steele was a good friend of Fairbanks as were
                    State Senators New and Hawkins of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who were working for Steele. It was not to the best interests of Fairbanks to have
                    Hanly and his newly organized machine in power, but neither was it to his advantage to have another
                    Senator elected from 
                        Indianapolis
                     on account of the sectional feeling in the State. Thus he looked askance at the
                    possible election of Beveridge and was accused of opposing him.62 The last thing
                    that happened, before the meeting of the caucus, and, in which many saw the hand of Fairbanks, was
                    the appointment on January 9 of Addison C. Harris, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as Minister to 
                        Austria
                    . This appointment coming on the eve of the caucus, made Beveridge and his friends think
                    that it was a direct attempt on the part of Fairbanks and others to thwart his election.63 There were many people who did not believe that it was a thrust at Beveridge,
                    for the nomination came as a matter of course in the executive business, while others said that if
                    it was not aimed at him, Fairbanks should have prevented the nomination from coming at such an
                    inopportune time.64
            
            The Republican caucus was held in the hall of the House of Representatives on the night of January
                    10. The Hanly men went into the caucus with the intentions of voting their full strength from the
                    first. By so doing they would demonstrate their power and pull enough "band wagon"
                    votes to elect their man.65 Taylor and Steele were determined that Hanly should
                    not win. It did not matter to them who won just so he did not. 
                  
                     60
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 9, 1899.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 20, 1898.
                  
                     62 During the interview with Mr. Noel on April 5, 1928, he stated that
                            Fairbanks opposed Beveridge in a number of ways. He did not state any specific instances to
                            prove this statement.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 10, 1899.
                  
                     64 Fairbanks had recommended Harris to President McKinley, but I
                            cannot find any evidence to prove that any influence was exerted to have his nomination sent
                            to the Senate at this particular time. It is conceivable, though, that it could have been
                            timed, and the nomination purposely made just then.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 10, 1899.
               
                     The fifteen men who were for Beveridge pledged themselves to
                    stick together until the end. They held the balance of power between the two factions—the
                    young progressives and the conservatives—in their hands, and could elect Hanly if they so
                    desired; while their votes, if given to either one of the other candidates, would provide the
                    impetus to elect him. They also knew that if they could hold out until the break came, it would, in
                    all probability, come their way, for they had promises of second choice votes from nearly every
                        legislator.66 The caucus was organized and regular procedure was followed.
                    No nominating speeches were made. As the name of each legislator was called, he walked up, and
                    dropped his ticket into the ballot box. The first ballot revealed that the pre-caucus estimate was
                    almost correct. Great cheers arose from Hanly's friends who had gathered in the corridors
                    of the State Hause, when the vote was announced, for Hanly had received 32; Taylor, 19; Posey, 14;
                    Beveridge, 13; and Steele, 11.67
            
            To the consternation of the Beveridge men he had received only thirteen votes on the first ballot,
                    though they had been sure of fifteen.68 Beveridge had always been superstitious
                    of the number thirteen, and when he heard that he had received that number of votes he feared that
                    he was gone.69
            
            When the result of the second ballot was announced, Hanly's friends, and they were numerous,
                    sent up greater cheers than before. It was evident that they were trying to stampede him into the
                    Senate. The vote stood: Hanly, 31; Taylor, 16; Posey, 12; Steele, 11; Beveridge, 19.
            The results of the next several ballots were practically the same as the second, but on the eighth
                    correct ballot (the fifth was thrown out, because too many votes were cast), the break came, Hanly
                    had received 37 votes, This was two more votes than Taylor and Steele had thought it was possible
                    for him to get. Only 45 were needed to make him the choice of the caucus. They saw at once that it
                    was time to act if they were to defeat Hanly. Beveridge with twenty votes seemed to be the strongest
                    anti-Hanly candidate. On the next ballot the younger men from the northern part of the State, who
                    had been supporting Taylor, voted for Beveridge. The count then stood: 
                  
                     66 Noel, in Addresses, p. 18.
                  
                     67 These summaries are taken from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             newspapers of Jan. 11, 1899.
                  
                     68 Noel, in Addresses, p. 13.
                  
                     69 Personal letter from C. E. Coffin, Nov. 11, 1927.
               
                     Hanly, 36; Taylor, 9; Posey, 8; Beveridge, 28; and Steele, 8.
                    The tenth ballot was also thrown out, because too many votes were cast.
            It was possible that on the next ballot the remaining Taylor votes would go to Beveridge thus giving
                    him thirty-seven against Hanly's thirty-six. In that event neither would yet be a victor.
                    Steele's men knew that they now had the power to elect either man. They remembered the 
                        Muncie
                     post-office episode and Steele's oath to get even with McCulloch for his
                    betrayal. Their chance had come. The Posey men could have voted for Hanly and further delayed the
                    election, but they had promised to stick by Posey until the very last, and most of them intended to
                    abide by their pledges. It all hinged on the votes of Steele's men. The entire Steele vote
                    was given to Beveridge on the next ballot, together with three of Posey's votes and one
                    from the Hanly group. The final count was: Beveridge, 49, four more than necessary to elect; Hanly,
                    35; and Posey, 5.
            Beveridge had been in his office on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     street with a group of friends during the evening. When he answered the telephone and
                    was informed of his election he said, "Thank God", and then shook hands with his
                        friends.70
            
            Thus a man whose candidacy was regarded as little more than a joke at the beginning was chosen by the
                    Republican caucus. He was hindered by the almost unsurmountable obstacles of his residence, age, and
                    determined opposition at home. In addition to this, the speakership of the House and many of the
                    offices in the organization of the General Assembly had been given to 
                        Marion county
                     men, as well as the appointment of a foreign ambassador by the President. In view of
                    all these things, he won a brilliant victory by the use of clever but clean politics.71
            
            Beveridge's triumph in the caucus was received with satisfaction throughout the State and
                    Nation. Congratulatory telegrams and letters from friends, newspapers, and government officials
                    flooded his office for weeks afterward, and it seemed that the Nation at large, now in the throes of
                    machine politics, 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 11, 1899.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., Jan. 11, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 11, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 11, 1899. Clements, of 
                                Posey county
                            , offered this humorous resolution in the House of Representatives on Jan. 11:
                            "Be it resolved, that no person shall be eligible to the office of 
                                United States
                             Senator, Speaker of the House, or 
                                United States
                             district Attorney, unless such person shall have been a resident of the city of 
                                Indianapolis
                             ten years previous to his election or appointment." This was greeted
                            with howls of laughter. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 11, 1699.
               
                     had just reason to view his election as an indication of the
                    return of clean politics.72
            
            The formal election of Beveridge took place on January 17. Since this was the second Tuesday after
                    the organization of both Houses of the State Legislature, the Senate, in obedience to the
                    regulations set forth by the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    ; and according to its own resolution, suspended regular business at 10:30, and proveded
                    to cast its vote, viva voce. Senator Frederick A. Joss nominated Albert J.
                    Beveridge. Senator Charles P. Drummand nominated David Turpie. Senator Gill nominated Alonzo G.
                    Burkhart, Populist. The nominations of Beveridge and Turpie were duly seconded, and the roll was
                    called. Beveridge received 28 votes; Turpie, 19; and Burkhart, 1.73 The House,
                    according to its own resolution suspended business at 12:00, and proceeded to cast its vote for 
                        United States
                     Senator in like manner. Mr. Roots nominated Beveridge, and Mr. T. McCarty nominated
                    Turpie. After both nominations had been duly seconded, the roll was called. Beveridge received 59
                    votes and Turpie 37. Four members were absent on account of sickness.74
            
            The following day at 12:00, the Senate adjourned to meet with the House in a Joint Assembly to
                    compare the votes cast the previous day and to inform the candidate, in an official way, of his
                    election. The total number of votes cast for Beveridge was 87; for Turpie, 56; and for Burkhart, 1.
                    A committee composed of three members from each House informed Beveridge of his election and
                    escorted him to the Speaker's chair. He was introduced by Lieutenant-Governor Haggard to
                    the throng of people that had crowded into the room. In his characteristic manner Beveridge made his
                    speech of acceptance, in which he outlined, in a way, the principles which were to guide him while
                    in the Senate.
            He opened his brief address with these sentences: 
                        I thank you for the privilege you have given me of serving the Republic in one of its
                            historic periods.
                        I thank you not for the honor—that I must earn for myself— but for
                            having commissioned me to give the best energies of my life to the service of the American
                            people.
                    
            
            
               
                  72 The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Jan. 14, 1899, has a good laudatory editorial on the significance of Mr.
                        Beveridge's nomination.
               
                  73 Indiana Senate Journal, 61 Sess., 1899, Part I, pp.
                        126-7.
               
                  74 Indiana House Journal, 61 Sess., 1899, Part I, pp.
                        218-4.
            
            
            After discussing the interdependence of people and of States one upon the other, he stated that there
                    was no place for local legislation unless it benefited the whole. He further explained his catholic
                    views in these words: 
                        I shall fearlessly stand in the Senate of the 
                                United States
                             for the business interests of this country, when that means the welfare of all
                            the people; and I shall just as fearlessly stand by the labor interests of the land, when
                            that means the prosperity of all the people; and I shall just as fearlessly stand against
                            the demands of any class, when those demands do not involve the interests of the entire
                            American people.
                    
            
            He did not feel that he was to be responsible to the Republican party only nor to any other
                    organization for his actions while in the Senate. Instead, he felt that he was to be responsible
                    only to the people whom he represented. He clearly expressed this feeling when he said:
                    "The people, and the people only, are my masters; … and to the people I will be
                        true."75
            
            THE YOUNG SENATOR'S ATTITUDE TOWARD INSULAR AND TERRITORIAL GOVERNMENT
            As the 
                        United States
                     approached the end of the nineteenth century, the country became imbued with the spirit
                    and tenor of world policies and movements. 
                  England, France
               , and 
                        Germany
                     desiring to increase their possessions and enhance their glory, had partitioned Africa,
                    during the last generation, and were now in the act of partitioning 
                  China. Japan
               , rapidly rising in power and
                    prominence, had had trouble with 
                        China
                     in 1894-5 at which time she extended her power and prestige at the expense of the
                    Chinese. The 
                        United States
                    , though backward as compared with the European nations, was about to start on an
                    imperial program, and now began to get in step with the rest of the world. All of these movements
                    were promoted by economic motives and chauvinism but were excused on the ground of the duty of
                    carrying the blessings of civilization to the backward peoples of the world.
            Expansion was not a new thing for the American people. In fact it had been their most outstanding and
                    constant characteristic. It first took the form of the acquisition of land from the Indians, French,
                    English, Spaniards, and Mexicans. This 
                  
                     75 Indiana House Journal, 61 Sess., 1899, Part I, p.
                            253.
               
                     first period of territorial acquisition was completed by 1854.
                    After a lapse of half a century caused by secession and Civil War, the American people again began
                    to expand, but this time in an industrial and commercial way. This expansion was not confined to the
                    geographical limits of the 
                        United States
                     for American finance and commerce had penetrated to far distant regions of the world.
                    Economic development had caught up with and gone far beyond American territorial expansion. As an
                    outgrowth of the Spanish American War, the American government was trying to follow up, protect, and
                    aid American commercial expansion. Porto Rico and 
                        Guam
                    , the island in the Ladrones chosen by the President, were obtained as indemnity while
                    the 
                        Philippines
                     were claimed and acquired by reason of conquest and purchase. Some viewed this as
                    imperialism—the exercising of sovereignty over and control of distant territories
                    inhabitated by alien races.1 And in the wake of all this came the great problem
                    of determining our policy for the government of dependencies.
            Beveridge had kept abreast of the times if not far ahead in thinking as well as in his advocacy of
                    policies. He was purported to be the original expansionist of the era because of his 
                        Boston
                     speech of April 27, 1898.2 Soon after his election to the Senate he
                    announced that he was in favor of the retention of the 
                        Philippines
                    . He saw that the biggest question to be solved in the next Congress would be that of
                    the government of dependencies. Since the 
                        Philippines
                     presented a special problem, due to an insurrection headed by Aguinaldo, he decided
                    that it would be advisable to visit the new possessions and make a personal investigation of affairs
                    in the Islands. On his return and entrance on his duties in the Senate he would have some actual
                    knowledge on which to base his opinions. He also saw in it a chance to gain the immediate
                    recognition of his fellow Senators.
            He and Mrs. Beveridge left 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in the Spring of 1899 and spent six months in the 
                  Philippines, China
               , and 
                        Japan
                    , returning to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on September 1, 1899, at which time a large public reception sponsored by the 
                        Marion
                     Club, was held for them.3
            
            The method of studying current problems which the young 
                  
                     1 Edward Stanwood, A History of the Presidency, II,
                            p. 23.
                  
                     2 See above p. 12.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 2, 1899.
               
                     Senator had adopted received much commendation.4 It was a novel method, for few Senators had ever resorted to this kind of an effort in the
                    investigation of problems. Instead, many preferred to engage in glittering generalities or base
                    their conclusions on secondary information. But to the disgust of newspaper men he would not, on his
                    return, divulge any of the results of his investigations. He knew that he held an important card and
                    wished to play it at the most opportune time. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, in commenting on his silence, printed a large cartoon representing him a a
                    sphinx under which was printed: 
                        The reporters go up to the Sphinx,
                        And demand to know what he thinx,
                        of the Philippine isles,
                        But the Sphinx only smiles,
                        And replies, "That's a secret by jinx".5
                  
                    
            
            President McKinley invited Beveridge to come to 
                        Washington
                     on September 7 to confer with him on the Philippine situation. The first conference was
                    with the President alone, while the second was with the President and Elihu Root, Secretary of
                        War.6 After these conferences, Beveridge went to Oyster Bay, 
                        New York
                    , to visit Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt in writing to Senator Lodge on September 11,
                    stated: 
                        Senator Beveridge was out here yesterday. He has just come back from the 
                                Philippines
                            . His views on public matters are almost exactly yours and mine. I want you to
                            meet him.7
                  
                    
            
            When Beveridge entered the Senate, he wanted an appointment as a member of the Committee on Foreign
                    Relations. Roosevelt thought that he would be a good man on this committee, so he wrote to Senator
                    Lodge in his behalf.8 Beveridge also thought he was entitled to be chairman of
                    the Committee on the 
                        Philippines
                     because of his personal investigation of conditions there. He was not made chairman,
                    but he was placed on this committee.9 Lodge in answering Roosevelt's
                    letter of December 11, characterized Beveridge in this way: 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 6, 1899.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 27, 1899.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 8 and 9, 1899.
                  
                     7 Roosevelt to Lodge, Oyster Bay, 
                                New York
                            , September 11, 1899, in the Selections From the Correspondence of
                                Theodore Roosevelt and Henry Cabot Lodge, edited by Henry Cabot Lodge, I, p. 421.
                  
                     8 Roosevelt to Lodge, 
                                Albany
                            , Dec. 11, 1899, in ibid., p. 426.
                  
                     9 For his committee assignments during his twelve years in the Senate
                            consult the Congressional Directory.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Beveridge is a very bright fellow, well informed and sound in his views. I like him very
                            much, but he arrived here with a very imperfect idea of the rights of seniority in the
                            Senate, and with a large idea of what he ought to have.10
                  
                    
            
            From the very first, Beveridge challenged the established order of things. He had been in the Senate
                    scarcely a month when he disregarded an old precedent—that Senators during their first
                    session should be seen little and heard less—by making his first set speech.
            Beveridge was not a believer in a half-hearted and apologetic defense of programs and policies which
                    he believed to be entirely right and beneficial. He did not believe in talking around a point, or in
                    the use of vague terms. Therefore some of his speeches were considered as unusually bold and rather
                    undiplomatic.
            On January 9, his first speech, delivered in such a way that Mr. Dooley remarked, "
                    'Twas a Speech ye 'cud waltz to",11 was an embodiment
                    or a typical expression of the imperialistic attitude in the 
                        United States
                    . After telling of his observations and investigations while in the Philippine Islands,
                    and after sketching the great commercial possibilities in the Far East, as well as our duty in
                    respect to the Filipinos, he boldly stated: 
                        The statesman commits a crime against American trade… who fails to put America
                            where she can command that trade. We will not abandon our opportunity in the Orient; we will
                            not renounce our part in the mission of the race, trustees under God, of the civilization of
                            the World.12
                  
                    
            
            He recommended that a simple but strong government—one that could be easily
                    understood—should be established. The Filipinos were as yet children, politically. He did
                    not believe with Senators George F. Hoar, Richard F. Pettigrew, and others, that the
                    "Constitution follows the flag".13 Even if it did it would not
                    be advisable to institute self government because the people were not fitted for it. Self government
                    would only come to the Filipinos after a long period of education and 
                  
                     10 Lodge to Roosevelt, 
                                Washington
                            , Dec. 13, 1899, in Correspondence, II. Senator Shelby M.
                            Cullom expressed the same opinion in his Fifty Years of Public Service, p.
                            362.
                  
                     11 C. W. Thompson, Party Leaders of the Time, p.
                            138.
                  
                     12
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 704.
                  
                     13 Beveridge's belief that the 
                                United States
                             had a right to establish any form of government for the Island that they
                            pleased was based on Article 4, Section 3, of the Constitution.
               
                     schooling in political matters, and even then oly a step at a
                    time as they were able to comprehend its meaning.14
            
            Senator Hoar, leader of the Republican anti-imperialists in the Senate, could not let such an
                    imperialistic speech go unchallenged. He immediately arose at the conclusion of Beveridge's
                    speech, and characterized it in this way: 
                        I was delighted by the eloquence of my friend from Indiana. I welcomed his enthusiasm,
                            patriotism, his silver speech, earnestness, and courage with which he has devoted himself to
                            a discharge of his duty as he conceives it. He described wealth and glory, commerce and
                            trade, but the words Right, Justice, Duty, Freedom, were absent… from that
                            eloquent speech.15
                  
                    
            
            Since Beveridge had been in conference with the President and was a member of the Committee on the 
                        Philippines
                    , his speech was taken as a semi-official statement of the Administration and was
                    heralded throughout the country by the press as such. It, therefore, attracted nation-wide
                    attention.
            From this time until the latter part of March, he remained relatively quiet; but when this buoyant
                    young Senator, handsome of face and figure, spoke to the Senate again on March 29, it was too much
                    for the old Senators to endure. The next day Edmund W. Pettus of 
                        Mississippi
                    , a Democratic Senator of the old school, took it upon himself to
                    "haze" him. With his quaint old fashioned eloquence he was as complete an
                    antithesis of the highly modern Indiana orator as could be imagined. Buttoning the top button of his
                    coat as he rose, he proceeded to speak in his characteristic southern drawl with all seriousness. He
                    mentioned no names, but the slight oscillations of his shoulders and the gentle movement of his
                    chest conveyed such an idea of pomposity without losing any dignity that Senators completely lost
                    control of themselves. His chief point of attack was the "Or-a-tory" of the young
                    Senator, and he drawled this word out with such an effect that the Senators roared, and screamed,
                    and pounded their desks, while the galleries shrieked and yelled without a single admonition from
                    the presiding officer, who, himself convulsed forgot all rules and sat helplessly by."
            Obviously Beveridge went to the Senate with the idea that 
                  
                     14
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 710 ff.
                  
                     15
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 712.
                  
                     16
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 31, 1900; Thompson, op. cit., p.
                        140.
               
                     his oratory would bring him as much approval there as it had in
                    the world outside. His fresh and bubbling enthusiasm caused him to be liked by everyone. They
                    admired him for his industry in the investigation of public questions; but his custom of always
                    appearing in a frock coat and his oratory, carried over from college days, led his colleagues to
                    notice these things while his fine qualities were disregarded for a time.17 Yet
                    the "hazing" administered did not squelch him. However, his set speeches came less
                    often after this, for he was no doubt beginning to learn that more legislation was accomplished in
                    the committee rooms than on the floor of the Senate; and that speeches were made largely for home
                    consumption and not to influence Senators.
            In the discussion of questions relating to the 
                        Philippines
                    , Beveridge was always an advocate of the Administration policies as well as a defender
                    of them against the attacks of Democrats and anti-imperial Republicans. Usually these discussions
                    were in the nature of running debates and in this repartee Beveridge had few superiors. He once
                    tackled Senator Farnifold M. Simmons of 
                        North Carolina
                     and wound him up in an endless maze of contradictions. It was reported that this so
                    mortified the North Carolinian that he actually took to his bed and was ill for a week. On one
                    occasion, he so exasperated Senator Joseph W. Bailey by his queries, that the Texan lost all control
                    of himself, and when Beveridge and Senator Matthew S. Quay "locked horns" over the
                    statehood bill at a later session, men neglected their business to hear the argument.18
            
            When the bill providing for civil government in Porto Rico was up for consideration, Beveridge spoke
                    in favor of it; however, he did not believe that it should be a permanent form of government; for
                    when changes came as a result of American occupation and supervision, then the government should be
                    modified to suit the new conditions. Beveridge's speech, given on March 29, 1900, was for
                    the most part, a constitutional argument for free trade with insular possessions. He viewed the
                    situation in this light: if under this measure Porto Rico should be considered by the Supreme Court
                    as domestic territory, then free trade ought to be required under the constitutional provision
                    "that all duties, imposts, and excises shall be 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., p. 139.
                  
                     18 Thompson, op. cit., p. 142.
               
                     uniform throughout the territory". If Porto Rico were
                    foreign territory, then Congress should overstep the Constitution as it so often had done and
                    establish free trade, because it would be expedient and helpful to both countries. In the course of
                    his arguments, he pointed out that institutional law is older, deeper, and more vital than
                    constitutional law; for our Constitution, like Magna Carta, is only a manifestation of our
                    institutions. Institutions change and alter the Constitution as the case demands. Therefore, since
                    the Constitution had given away before exigencies so many times, it was altogether fitting and
                    proper that it should allow a free hand in dealing with reciprocity or free trade with Porto Rico.
                    He emphatically stated his position on constitutional interpretation and application when he
                    remarked: 
                        I have no respect for constitutional learning which deals alone with the written words of the
                            Constitution, or even with the intentions of its framers, and ignores the sources and spirit
                            of that great instrument. The Constitution did not give us free institutions. Free
                            institutions gave us the Constitution. All the progress toward liberty and popular
                            government made since the adoption of the Constitution worked out its sure results, through
                            the Constitution when possible and over it when necessary.19
                  
                    
            
            Beveridge was a believer in a developing Constitution to say the least. He certainly did not believe
                    in the Constitution as a static thing nor as a restrictive force only. In it he saw life, vitality,
                    and progressivism.
            The Foraker Act was possed with a provision levying a fifteen per cent duty on imports from Porto
                        Rico.20 Although the Island was considered as an appurtenance to the 
                        United States
                    , the Supreme Court in the Insular Cases, particularly Downes vs. Bidwell, determined
                    that Porto Rico had not become a part of 
                        United States
                     for purposes of uniform duties.21 To explain it in common terms,
                    the Court held that the "Constitution does not follow the flag".
            It is impossible to determine from the present available sources what part Beveridge played, if any,
                    in the formulation of our policy in respect to 
                        Cuba
                     as embodied in the Piatt amendment. 
                  
                     19
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, p. 279.
                  
                     20 The Foraker Act went into effect May 1, 1900. For the act see Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 3696 ff, or 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XXXI, Chap. 191, pp. 77 ff.
                  
                     21 Amos S. Hershey, Essentials of International Law and
                                Organization, p. 224. Foot note No. 18.
               
                     However, his estimate of this legislation is clearly set forth
                    in an article written by him and published in the North American Review of April
                    1910, entitled, "
                        Cuba
                     and Congress". In this article he first outlined the history of our interest
                    in and relations with 
                        Cuba
                     and then gave an explanation as well as a justification of the eight parts of the Piatt
                    amendment which was passed by Congress on March 2, 1901. He concluded his explanation with the
                    following summary: 
                        Thus is appears that our Cuban legislation deprives 
                                Cuba
                             of nothing that can help her, but bestows every benefit and erects every
                            safeguard necessary to her settled and orderly self government. It insures the development
                            of the island's resources and the highest happiness possible to its people. Against
                            the enemies of 
                                Cuba
                            , foreign and domestic, is drawn the sword of this great Republic; and under its
                            protection the infant state may grow in peace and war strong in a secure security.22
                  
                    
            
            In an address, in memory of Orville H. Piatt, on April 21, 1906, Beveridge thus characterized the
                    originator of the Piatt amendment: 
                        Ordinary intelligence can cite precendents and apply decided cases to like institutions,
                            [but] it needs greatness to create by sheer thought solutions of unheard-of problems.
                    
            
            He also spoke of the conditions under which the amendment was adopted and of the relative importance
                    of this legislation: 
                        When it came to the adoption of the Piatt Amendment, so deeply wise, so imminently necessary
                            was that historic creation that although constitutional doubts filled the air and a single
                            speech would have defeated it, since Congress was expiring even as it passed, yet not one
                            voice was openly raised against it. And thus entered into the law and life of two peoples,
                            and into their intertwined history, the fifth writing produced by American
                            statesmanship—the first four being the Declaration of Independence, the
                            Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , the Ordinance of 1787, the Emancipation Proclamation, and, last, this
                            indissoluble bond uniting forever the destinies of 
                                Cuba
                             and the American Republic.23
                  
                    
            
            In the bitterly contested Cuban election of 1905, President Estrado Palma was reelected by the
                    Moderates. The Liberals accused him of resorting to violence, intimidation, and bribery to retain
                    his position. Early in 1906, an armed uprising against the government was started in the provinces
                    of Pinar 
                  
                     22 Printed in the Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            pp. 5809 ff.
                  
                     23
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 5657.
               
                     del Rio and Havana. After President Palma's
                    proclamation of August 27, granting amnesty to all insurgents if they would lay down their arms, had
                    failed to produce the desired results, he asked Roosevelt for aid, because he did not have a
                    sufficient force to quell the rebellion. Roosevelt was reluctant to intervene because of the dangers
                    involved in such action. However, when Palma threatened to resign, he sent William H. Taft,
                    Secretary of War, and Robert Bacon, Assistant Secretary of State, to Havana to try to settle the
                        difficulties.24
            
            While Roosevelt was debating whether or not to intervene, Beveridge, now a member of the Committee on
                    Foreign Relations and of the Committee on Cuban Affairs, offered his advice to the President.
                    Roosevelt in writing to Senator Lodge on September 27 said of his recommendation: 
                        His advice as regards 
                                Cuba
                             was simple, namely: that I should at once take the island—advice
                            about as rational as requests I used to get at the time of the anthracite coal
                            strike,—to "take the coal barons by the throat". However, I
                            will do the justice to him to say that he is far better than Foraker who telegraphed me his
                            judgement that I could not intervene at all; that it was not a matter for the President but
                            for Congressional action, and that anyhow Palma was all right.25
                  
                    
            
            Lodge in answer, made these comments: "Foraker's proposition is, of course, simply
                    mischevious. Beveridge's proposal to take the island is almost equally
                        objectionable."26
            
            After the various factions had refused all plans for settlement, Taft and Bacon, established a
                    provisional government under the authority of the President of the 
                        United States
                    . On October 10, Governor Taft issued a proclamation granting amnesty to all
                    participants, and, three days later, turned the government of the island over to Charles Magoon, who
                    acted as provisional governor for the next three years.27
            
            Beveridge was named a member of the Committee on Territories when he entered the Senate and served as
                    chairman of that committee from December 1, 1902, until March 4, 1911. He did not, at the beginning
                    deem this chairmanship a very great honor, because this was a minor committee which seldom met. The
                    duties had not been burdensome. The committee reviewed legislation, received the requests that came
                    in from the 
                  
                     24 Graham H. Stuart, Latin America and the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , p. 174.
                  
                     25 Roosevelt to Lodge, Oyster Bay, September 27, 1906, Correspondence, II, p. 234.
                  
                     26 Lodge to Roosevelt, Nahant, Mass., September 29, 1906, ibid., p. 237.
                  
                     27 Stuart, op. cit., p. 174.
               
                     territories, approved the bond issues for local improvements,
                    and attended to other similar but rather unimportant matters. However, this committee now became an
                    important one due to the fact that some of the people in the territories of the Southwest began to
                    clamor for statehood. These local demands were augmented by those of people in the East who had
                    special interests in the region concerned. With local governments in complete control of finances it
                    would be much easier for them to influence the legislatures to pass laws which would be more
                    favorable to their interests. As long as the territorial status continued bond issues were limited
                    and had to be approved by Congress. Thus it was more difficult as well as expensive for the moneyed
                    interests to get legislation passed which would be of special benefit to them.28
            
            The House passed a resolution on May 9, 1902, to enable the people of 
                  Oklahoma, Arizona
               ,
                    and New 
                        Mexico
                     to from constitutions.29 Senator Matthew S. Quay, of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     ardently advocated the resolution in the Senate on June 23, and wanted immediate
                    consideration; but Beveridge asked that consideration be delayed in order to give the committee time
                    to thoroughly investigate the conditions in the Southwest and to prepare their report. He promised
                    that the committee would make a report on the House resolution at the earliest possible time in the
                    next session.30 The Senate agreed, on June 25, that the report should be
                    submitted on December 10.31
            
            Following his characteristic thoroughness in conducting investigations Beveridge and his
                    sub-committee spent fifteen days in the territories during November interviewing men who were well
                    versed in the affairs and conditions of the territories and investigating the character of the
                    population, their state of life, educational facilities and conditions, familiarity and sympathy
                    with our institutions, and all other elements that go to make up a good citizenship.32
            
            
               
                  28 This is based on Senator Spooner's review of the statehood
                        bills on March 9, 1906. He thus characterizes the agitation for statehood in 1902. "One
                        strong reason against the admission of New 
                            Mexico
                         at that time was, that there were railroad corporations and adventurers who wanted
                        admission as a State into the Union in order to take the territory out from under the
                        restrictive legislation of Congress as to the indebtedness to be incurred by her counties, and
                        leave her under laws of a state, which they could control to exhaust the credit of their
                        counties by the issue of bonds for railway construction and other public improvements."
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3575.
               
                  29
                        Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 5230.
               
                  30
                        Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 7200.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., p. 7357.
               
                  32
                        Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 189.
            
            
            On December 10,1902, Senator Quay, who considered himself a political orphan on the Territories
                    Committee, made a report of his own regarding these territories.33 He favored
                    the immediate admission of three states in obedience to the pledge set forth in the Republican
                    platform of 1900. At the conclusion of Quay's speech Beveridge submitted the majority
                    report.
            In making out this report the committee took into consideration the interests of the people of the
                    proposed new States as well as the interests of the remainder of the Republic. Each territory was
                    judged according to the following points: (1) the number of people; (2) condition of these people
                    educationally, morally, and other qualities of citizens; (3) the extent of territory occupied by
                    them; (4) the extent to which they had developed their resources; and (5) the extent and character
                    of all natural resources both developed and undeveloped.34 On these points the
                    committee based their recommendations.
            It was recommended that admission be denied these States, because they could not qualify on a single
                    one of the named points. The population was small; their resources were not developed sufficiently
                    to support a State government; they were such heterogeneous groups that no solidarity whatever
                    existed in race, language, customs, and political ideas; and they were too illiterate as a whole to
                    operate a local government. Furthermore, if it were a mistake not to admit them, it could be
                    remedied in the future; but if it were a mistake to admit them, that mistake once consummated could
                    never be undone.35
            
            The bill for admission was made unfinished business and was therefore called up each day for
                    consideration. Quay repeatedly tried to get the Senate to agree on a date to vote on the bill; but
                    Beveridge, or someone, always objected, and unanimous consent was necessary. From December 10, 1902,
                    until February 4, 1903, the bill was discussed. Five set speeches were delivered while the remainder
                    of the time was taken up in running debate. Beveridge was usually one of the debators. Quay finally
                    abandoned his attempt to get a vote on the bill. The filibuster was successful and the statehood
                    bill 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., p. 180.
                  
                     34
                            Senate Reports, no. 2206, 57 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 2-5. Same in the Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 187-194.
                  
                     35
                            Cong. Record, 57 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 194.
               
                     "went over" sure to be brought up again in a
                    subsequent session.
            On January 4,1905, House Resolution No. 14749, providing for the admission of 
                        Oklahoma
                     and Indian Territory as one state and the territories of 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     as another, was presented to the Senate. Senator Knute Nelson of Minnesota, a ranking
                    member of the Committee on Territories, was placed in charge of the bill. The bill was discussed
                    each day for the next thirty days. Senator Joseph B. Foraker, of 
                        Ohio
                    , leader of the Republicans who were hostile to statehood, opposed the bill in this
                    form, because he believed that the territories of New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                     had populations too heterobeneous and not sufficiently in sympathy with the 
                        United States
                     to be admitted as a State at this time.36 Senator Jonathan P.
                    Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                     likewise opposed admission, but with an additional reason. He did not believe that the
                    resources were well enough developed to support a State government. He also held that they were as
                    yet quite imperfect in civilization. After commending the committee for the thoroughness of their
                    investigation, he stated: 
                        I know one thing for an absolute certainty, that you cannot have a great population or a
                            great civilization where it does not rain. I have seen enough of this country to know that
                            mud and civilization go together; at least they have in all previous ages of the world.37
                  
                    
            
            Senator William B. Bate of 
                        Tennessee
                     and Thomas R. Bard of 
                        California
                     were the leaders of those who were opposed to the union of 
                        Arizona
                     and New Mexican Territories as a single State.38 Mark Smith, the
                    delegate from 
                        Arizona
                     to Congress, was very emphatic in his denial of the wisdom of such a plan. He was in
                    favor of postponing statehood rather than making the irretrievable blunder of joining the two.39
            
            Since the natural resources of the two Territories were not sufficiently developed to support two
                    State governments without being a burden on the people, and because each was not qualified on any of
                    the other points to enter the Union, Beveridge and others thought that it was best to join the two
                    Territories and enable them to enter the Union as a single State. By 
                  
                     36
                            Cong, Record, 58 Cong., 3 Sess. p.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., p. 1988.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., p. 443. They submitted a minority report setting forth and
                            substantiating their recommendations.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., p. 1572.
               
                     so doing, the Republicans would not only be fulfilling their
                    pledge of 1900 but would satisfy the people who were clamoring for statehood as well.
            On February 6, Beveridge made a long speech in defense of the bill basing his arguments for the most
                    part, on the natural, geographic factors of the Territories. 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     formed a natural unit as did 
                        Oklahoma
                     and Indian Territory. These natural factors should be the quide in the forming of
                    States. Furthermore, since nearly all were agreed that 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     were not qualified for admission as separate State, it was best to join the two and let
                    them enter as one.40
            
            On February 7, 1905, the Senate, in committee of the whole, proceeded to consider amendments to the
                    statehood bill. The first vote was on Jacob H. Gallinger's amendment changing the time of
                    the prohibition clause from ten to twenty-one years and extending it to include all of the proposed
                    State instead of Indian Territory alone. This passed by a 55-20 vote.41 Mr. Bard
                    then moved that a State be made out of what was the New Mexican territory. Several Republicans voted
                    with the Democrats to pass this by a 40-22 vote.42 The Senate then refused to
                    concur in the Bard amendment by a 38-38 vote.43 All that part of the bill
                    relating to New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                     was thrown out when Bacon's amendment was passed 40-37.44
                    Bard then changed a few words in his amendment and re-sumbitted it to the Senate. It was passed by a
                    40-37 vote.45 Beveridge moved to reconsider Bard's amendment, but his
                    motion was lost when Arthur P. Gorman's motion to table Beveridge's motion was
                    passed 39-38.46
            
            This was one of the most remarkable exhibitions of legislative see-sawing ever witnessed in the
                    Senate. It was not a result of the lack of good, sober judgement on the part of the Senators, as the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times charged,47 but it was the result of a nearly equal
                    division of opinion in regard to the questions at issue. Nearly all of the Senators had their minds
                    definitely 
                  
                     40
                            Cong. Record, 58 Cong., 3 Sess., pp. 1923 ff.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., p. 1975.
                  
                     42
                            Cong. Record, 58 Cong., 3 Sess., p. 1994.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., p. 2001. Mr. Gallinger was presiding in the absence of the
                            Vice-President.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., p. 2003.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., p. 2004.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., p. 2005.
                  
                     47
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, February 9, 1905.
               
                     made up on the question, but there remained one or two, who,
                    voting first on one side and then on the other, or not voting at all, caused the situation to change
                    as it did.
            The bill went into conference when the House failed to concur in the Senate amendments. No agreement
                    could be reached, beacause each house insisted on its own amendments. Consequently, the bill was
                    defeated. This disagreement in the conference committee was undoubtedly a pre-arranged affair. Since
                    the Senate was so evenly divided on the question, as shown by the votes on the amendments, the
                    conferees no doubt thought it best to play safe by postponing admission.
            President Roosevelt in his message to Congress on December 5, 1905, made this recommendation in
                    regard to the statehood questions: 
                        I recommend that the Indian Territory and 
                                Oklahoma
                             be admitted as one State and that New 
                                Mexico
                             and 
                                Arizona
                             be admitted as one State…. Nothing has taken up more time in
                            Congress during the past few years than the question as to the statehood to be granted to
                            the four Territories above mentioned, and after careful consideration of all that has been
                            developed in the discussions of the question I recommend that they be immediately admitted
                            as two States. There is no justification for delay; and the advisability of making the four
                            Territories into two States has been clearly established.48
                  
                    
            
            In pursuance of this recommendation, Beveridge, on December 7, 1905, introduced a statehood bill
                    embodying the same provisions as the one which had been considered in the third session of the
                    preceding Congress. It was read twice by title and then referred to the Committee on Territories.49
            
            This bill was superseded by a similar bill coming over from the House on January 25,1906.50 By having the bill proceed in this fashion, it would have the approval of the
                    House to support it and assure a more serious consideration when it came before the Senate. On
                    January 29, the House bill was returned to the Senate from the Committee on Territories with minor
                    amendments and a report submitted thereon.51
            
            While the bill was in the House, Mark Smith, delegate from 
                        Arizona
                    , again opposed that part dealing with 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                    . He attacked the President's recommendation: 
                  
                     48
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 105.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., p. 222.
                  
                     50
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sees., p. 1587.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., pp. 2599 ff.
               
                    
                    
                        The plainest recommendation, is far the worst. 
                                Arizona
                             and New 
                                Mexico
                             are not homogeneous and never could be. They are strangers to each other and
                            always will be. They have nothing in common and never can have. They differ in language,
                            laws, customs, government, and ideals. He could not have known the conditions or he would
                            not have made this recommendation.52
                  
                    
            
            Smith, defending the interests of 
                        Arizona
                     would naturally take this position for there were many people living in the Territory
                    who were of good American stock, having come into the region in search of health. New 
                        Mexico
                    , on the other hand, was inhabited largely by Indians, half-breeds, and Mexicans. Race
                    prejudice no doubt played a large part in producing his attitude because the Americans of 
                        Arizona
                     did not want to be burdened by or connected with the Mexican
                    "greasers" and half-breeds.
            Senator Foraker and George C. Perkins, leaders of the Republicans, and Senators Bailey and William J.
                    Patterson, leaders of the Democratic opponents of the bill, objected to it for two reasons: (1) they
                    believed that the people of the Territories should have the right to determine whether or not they
                    should come into the Union as a one or two States; (2) they contended that the government had a
                    moral obligation and a pledge to admit 
                        Arizona
                     as a State and should live up to it. This contention was based on the peculiar
                    provision of the Act of Congress of February 24, 1863, creating the territory of 
                        Arizona
                    . This territorial act declared: 
                        that said government shall be maintained and continued until such a time as the people
                            residing in said territory shall, with consent of Congress, for a State government,
                            republican in form, … and apply for and obtain admission into
                            the Union as a state…. 53
                  
                    
            
            Roosevelt did not believe that this provision placed any obligation on Congress to admit 
                        Arizona
                     Territory as a separate State. In his Presidential message of December 5, 1905, he
                    stated: "There is no obligation on us to treat territorial subdivisions, which are matters
                    of convenience only, as binding us on the question of admission to statehood."54 Furthermore, a provision in the act which created the 
                        Arizona
                     territory, and which was common to all such acts, abrogated the binding force of the
                    special provision contained therein. It asserted 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., pp. 1563 ff.
                  
                     53
                            Cong. Record, 95 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3529; U.S. Statutes at
                                Large, XII, p. 665.
                  
                     54
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 105.
               
                     "that nothing contained in the provisions of this act
                    shall be construed to prohibit Congress from dividing said territory or changing its boundaries in
                    such manner and at such times as it may deem proper."55 Obviously there
                    was a conflict in the act itself.
            Beveridge was the chief defender of the bill in the Senate. He maintained that the question of
                    statehood was not entirely a local matter as Foraker and others were contending. It was as much a
                    national question as a local question and should be thus considered. In addition, local opinion and
                    sentiment was neither a true nor an intelligent guide for the admission of States, because the
                    people who reside in the territories see only their local needs, for the most part. On the other
                    hand, Congress, representing the whole nation, was able to view the question in its entirety and to
                    consider the problem as it affected the whole Republic. The people of the Territories should, of
                    course, be consulted, but in the last analysis, Congress was the sole arbiter.56
            
            Senator John C. Spooner was no less emphatic in stating his views on this statehood bill. He did not
                    believe that New 
                        Mexico
                     nor 
                        Arizona
                     were in a condition to be admitted by any test that one should wish to apply. However,
                    if they were to be admitted, he would not vote for Foraker's plan because it was not up to
                    the people entirely to decide on single or double statehood. Neither could he appreciate the merits
                    of omnibus statehood bills, for the cases of each were different and should be treated separately.
                    In his opinion, 
                        Oklahoma
                     and Indian Territory had been qualified for statehood for nearly two years, but as a
                    result of this policy of linking separate problems, they had been denied admission and forced to
                    wait. If the problems relating to the two different areas were not considered separately admission
                    would be denied them again. "That", he stated, "is a proposition so
                    destitute of justice and statesmanship and patriotism as to be inexplicable."57
            
            The bill came up for amendment on March 9, 1906. Foraker's amendment providing for a
                    referendum on single statehood was passed 49-29.58 Henry C.
                    Hansbrough's amendment 
                  
                     55
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3576; U.S. Statutes at
                                Large, XII, p. 665.
                  
                     56
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 3515 ff.
                  
                     57
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3455.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., p. 3591.
               
                     prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquor in the Indian
                    Territory for twenty-one years from the date of admission was passed without objection.59 Julius C. Burrows then moved to strike out all sections dealing with 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                    . His motion was lost, 35-36.60 After Henry M. Teller's
                    amendment locating the capital temporarily at Guthrie was passed, Burrows resubmitted his amendment
                    with slight changes. It was passed this time 37-35.61 After the acceptance of
                    this amendment, the bill was passed without a roll call.
            The votes show that practically all were agreed on the advisability of admitting 
                        Oklahoma
                    , but as yet there was no harmony of opinion respecting 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                    . The vote, it seems, was largely a matter of personal opinion with some Senators, while
                    others regarded it as a party measure and voted on it as such.62 Foraker
                    probably opposed the bill because Roosevelt had recommended it. He and Roosevelt were not on the
                    best of terms, and were on opposite sides of the fence in other matters as well.63
            
            The House disagreed with the Senate amendments by a 175-156 vote.64 The Senate
                    was informed of the disagreement, and following the usual procedure, Beveridge moved that the Senate
                    insist on its amendments and agree to a conference asked by the House. Foraker objected to the usual
                    procedure of having the Chair appoint the conferees. He wanted to have them appointed by the Senate
                    so that he would have some say as to who the members of the conference committee would be. He was
                    overruled, however, and the Chair appointed Beveridge, William P. Dillingham, and Patterson.65
            
            On June 2, 1906, Beveridge submitted a conference report which was agreed to by himself and
                    Dillingham, managers on the part of the Senate, and by E. R. Hamilton and A. L. Brick, managers on
                    the part of the House. Senator Patterson and 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., p. 3592.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., p. 3593.
                  
                     61
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3597.
                  
                     62 Senator John T. Morgan thus spoke of the bill: "It
                            originated in a caucus of the Republican party. It was handled, shaped, and treated
                            exclusively by a Republican caucus. It has never lost its tone." Ibid., p. 8397.
                  
                     63 Roosevelt in writing to Senator Lodge on Sept. 27, 1906, stated:
                            "I do not like Foraker's action at all. He is a powerful and vindictive
                            man. It is possible that he has grown to feel so angry over my course, that is, over my
                            helping to rescue the Republican party and therefore the country from the ruin into which,
                            if he had his way, it would have been thrown by the party being made to appear as simply an
                            appanage to Wall Street—that he intends hereafter to fight me on every point,
                            good or bad." Roosevelt to Lodge, Oyster Bay, September 27, 1906, Correspondence, II, p. 235.
                  
                     64
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4128.
                  
                     65
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3155.
               
                     Representative John A. Moon dissented.68
                    According to the report, the provision for the admission of New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                     as a single State had been reinserted in the bill. It was discovered that the report as
                    presented would not be accepted by the Senate, and, on June 12, it was withdrawn. A second report,
                    unanimously agreed to by the conferees of both houses, embodying a provision for a referendum in 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     on single statehood,67 was presented and accepted by the Senate.68 By this act, signed by the President on June 19, 1906, 
                        Oklahoma
                     was enabled to enter the Union and the residents of 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     were given a chance to express their opinion on whether or not they should be admitted
                    as one or two States.
            Four years passed before Congress took action again. House Resolution no. 18,160, enabling 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     to enter the Union as separate States came up for consideration in the Senate on June
                    16, 1910.69 After Beveridge had summarized and explained the reasons for the
                    amendments made thereto, a vote was taken. The resolution was passed 65-0.70 The
                    House concurred in the Senate amendments on June 18.71 The President signed the
                    bill on June 21.72 Thus the forty-seventh and forty-eighth States were enabled
                    to form constitutions and apply for admission into the Union.
            Although territorial affairs consumed most of the time of the committee on Territories, conditions in
                    the District of 
                        Alaska
                     were not entirely disregarded. During the summer of 1903 a sub-committee on
                    Territories, with Senator Kunte Nelson in charge, spent two months in 
                        Alaska
                     investigating the situation there.73 On March 10, 1904, the Senate
                    considered five bills, introduced by Nelson and defended by Beveridge, which were designed to
                    perfect the administrative system as well as to promote the general welfare of the inhabitants. Only
                    one of these bills was agreed to by both houses and signed by the President (Senate bill no. 3338).
                    This was an act to 
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., pp. 7736-7740.
                  
                     67 Foraker had ardently advocated this provision when the bill was in
                            the Senate. Other Republicans were in favor of this provision as well as the Democrats.
                  
                     68
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8403. 
                                Oklahoma
                             finally entered the Union on November 16, 1907.
                  
                     69
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess.; p. 8227.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., p. 8335.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., p. 8486.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., p. 8698. 
                                Arizona
                             was formally admitted on February 14, 1912, while New 
                                Mexico
                             entered January 6, 1912, World Almanac, 1923, p. 447.
                  
                     73
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 3091.
               
                     amend and codify all laws relating to the municipal
                    corporations of 
                        Alaska
                    .74 It provided that communities of three hundred or more permanent
                    inhabitants might become a municipal corporation and be termed a town; that a city council composed
                    of seven members elected annually on the first Tuesday in April, having all legislative and
                    executive power might be established; that this council might elect as president one of its members
                    who shall also be the ex-officio mayor. This act signed by the President on April 28, 1904,
                    superceded all other acts inconsistent with the provisions thereof.75
            
            A bill providing for an Alaskan legislative council, to govern and legislate for the district was
                    submitted by Beveridge on January 24, 1910.76 In explanation, he stated that
                    President Taft had recommended a change in the form of government for 
                        Alaska
                     and that this bill was drafted in accordance with his recommendations.77 A change was necessary because of the inefficiency of the present scheme of government
                    which permitted all kinds of special legislation about which Congress actually knew very little;
                    some of the laws that had been passed were applicable and very good while many others were very
                    incongruous. It was therefore expedient to create a council, the members of which were to be
                    appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Senate, to legislate for this territory, as the bill called it.78 The representatives from
                    the several districts in 
                        Alaska
                     would necessarily have first hand knowledge of conditions which would enable them to
                    pass laws more in accordance with their needs.79
            
            The bill was bitterly opposed by Senators Clarence D. Clarke of 
                        Wyoming
                     and William E. Borah of 
                        Idaho
                    , because it provided for an appointive rather than an elective body. In their opinion
                    this was too undemocratic. They also objected because Beveridge did not submit a formal, printed
                    report to substantiate the proposed bill but in lieu thereof simply made an extensive statement of
                    conditions. They would not accept this as a true, accurate account nor as conclusive evidence.80
                    
                  
                     74
                            Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 3082-3083. For a text of this bill see
                                ibid., p.5533-5534.
                  
                     75
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 912.
                  
                     76
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 912.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., p. 1823.
                  
                     78 The raising of the status of 
                                Alaska
                             from a District to a Territory would lay the foundation for its admission as a
                            State.
                  
                     79
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 912 ff and 1025 ff.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., p. 1021.
               
                     However, the real question was: "Could 
                        Alaska
                    's development, the safe-guarding of the natural resources, and the welfare of
                    the people be better taken care of in 
                        Washington
                     than by a local legislative council?" The opinion of the Senate had not
                    crystallized on the subject, and it appears that the above stated arguments were used to prevent
                    hasty action rather than as reasons for opposing the bill. After the bill had been called up in the
                    Senate for consideration each day for nearly a month, it was moved that the bill "go
                    over" not to be called up each morning as unfinished business. The motion was agreed to,
                    because it was seemingly impossible to reach an agreement on the bill at this time.81
            
            To recapituate, Beveridge went to the Senate willing and ready to work and lost no time in getting
                    started. He at first had an imperfect idea of the rights of seniority in the Senate, while his
                    evaluation of the probable influence of oratory was rather erroneous. He had no doubt evolved this
                    idea of oratory by reading the famous speeches made by noted Senators of a former day; but procedure
                    in the Senate had changed; and he soon became aware of the fact that legislation was now
                    accomplished, for the most part, in the committee rooms while the Senate chamber was more of a
                    personal advertising device. His knowledge of constitutional law was very valuable to him in dealing
                    with matters relating to the forming of governments for the newly acquired insular possessions, as
                    well as when the constitutionality of proposed legislation was in question. He was no blind
                    worshipper of the Constitution, believing in the theory that there was no constitutional restriction
                    on acts which would be beneficial to all concerned. To him the Constitution was not a mere
                    compilation of words—a dead letter— but it was full of life and vitality,
                    applicable to any and all conditions which might arise. He was a bold imperialist, a firm beliver in
                    his country and its work; and since he believed the 
                        United States
                     to be in the right, there was no need for any quibbling nor for an apologetic attitude.
                    He was ever concerned as States was defeated by a filibuster; and the third by was eager, perhaps
                    even unduly anxious at times, to extend her power and influence.
            He hardly appreciated the honor of being made chairman of the Committee on Territories, but, as later
                    events proved, he 
                  
                     81
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 2203.
               
                     was called upon to deal with important questions relating to,
                    the admission of States. He readily detected the capitalistic influences behind the early movements
                    for statehood. To offset these and to prevent State government from being a financial burden on the
                    population because of undeveloped natural resources, as well as to give more time for the
                    Americanization of the people, Beveridge first recommended postponement of statehood. The next
                    attempt to bring in the territories concerned as States was defeated by a filibuster; and the third
                    by a conference disagreement. In 1906, 
                        Oklahoma
                     and the Indian Territory were combined and given permission to enter, and a referendum
                    was provided for in the territories of New 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                    . As a result they were enabled to from constitutions and to apply for entrance to the
                    Union as separate States in 1910. In the latter case, it was best that statehood was denied for so
                    long a period, but 
                        Oklahoma
                     had been qualified to enter before 1906 and was prevented on account of having been
                    linked up with 
                        Arizona
                     and New 
                        Mexico
                     in the matter of statehood.
            [This paper will be concluded in the December number.]
         
         
         
            Ephraim Samuel Frazee, 1824-1896
            By Mrs. LUCIUS O. (FANNIE FRAZEE) HAMILTON
            
            Ephraim Samuel Frazee, son of Dr. Ephraim Frazee and Susan Mountjoy Doniphan Frazee, was born at
                    Mayslick, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Oct. 4, 1824, and died at 
                  Orange, Indiana
               , June 14, 1896. The father died when Ephraim Samuel
                    was but three days old, leaving the young wife, only twenty eight years of age, with four little
                    sons to rear, the eldest, Joseph Samuel, then by his years of age. For several years after the
                    father's death, the widowed mother made her home at 
                  Germantown, Kentucky
               .
                    Here, in partnership with his youngest brother, Joseph Frazee, her husband had owned a general
                    store. Joseph was appointed guardian for his four little nephews and executor of their
                    father's estate, which, beside the interest in the store at 
                        Germantown
                    , consisted of lands in Indiana located in Rush, 
                        Fayette
                     and 
                        Marion Counties
                    .
            Several years after the death of Dr. Frazee, the widow and her two older sons, Joseph Samuel and
                    Lewis Jacob, came to the farm in 
                  Rush County, Indiana
               , which the widow adopted as a permanent home. The
                    older boys often returned and spent much time in 
                        Kentucky
                    , until they became real southerners at heart. Lewis, returning there for his education,
                    never lived for any long period in Indiana.
            The two younger sons, William Doniphan and Ephraim Samuel, remained for several years after their
                    mother came to Indiana, with their guardian, Uncle Joseph Frazee, near 
                  Germantown, Kentucky
               . They atended school and helped in the store.
            It was a delight to me, when a young married woman, living in Brooksville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , to visit my cousin Susan, the only daughter of Uncle Joseph Frazee. She married John
                    Harvey Walton, and with her husband was living on the Walton farm  north of the old Frazee farm which was situated north and east of 
                        Germantown
                    . It was pleasant to have her tell me in most tender and admirable language of the great
                    esteem which Uncle Joseph had for my father, who, she said, was always "so dutiful, so
                    respectful, so apperciative, and so clean of mind, and a real brother" to her.
            At the age of fourteen years my father left his uncle's home to live with his mother in
                    Indiana. He made the long trip from Germantowns to his mother's home alone and on
                    horseback. When he reached 
                  Laurel, Indiana
               , upon inquiry he was told the way to the home of the
                    Widow Frazee in 
                        Rush County
                    . Late in the evening, having gone too far on the road before turning, and realizing
                    that he must have missed his way, he stopped at the home of a family named Grey and asked for a
                    night's lodging. It was not convenient for the Greys to accommodate the strange young
                    traveler. He was told that if he would go a little farther on to the home of "Deacon
                    Austen" he could probably find lodging. Darkness had fallen but the weary boy started on
                    once more, and reached the Austen home. Here he did not ask in vain, and when the family learned
                    that he was the son of the "rich Widow Frazee" a friend of the Austens, he was
                    most warmly welcomed, given a good supper, allowed to "toast" his feet by the
                    blazing fireside and given a night's rest in a good clean bed. Incidentally he made the
                    acquaintance of little Frances Austen, a miss of twelve years, destined eight years later to become
                    his bride.
            On their 
                        Rush County
                     farm of 640 acres of black fertile soil, this blue-eyed, fair-skinned, tow-headed,
                    slender lad grew to young manhood among all the vicissitudes, adventures, hardships, and pleasures
                    of Indiana's pioneer life. At this time there were only trails and mud roads for the
                    traveler. The land was covered with heavy forests, many of the large poplar, oak and walnut trees
                    having trunks from ten to fifteen feet in circumference. The land was full of swamps that were
                    dangerous to the health of the inhabitants. It was many years before the country was well drained.
                    This improvement was still in process during my childhood days. As late as when my brother, Austen,
                    was in his 'teens', I can remember him being ill with ague, or as many called it,
                    "chills and fever." I can still see him wrapped in a big bed comfort, sitting in
                    an arm chair, chilling until it seemed to me he shook the house.
            
            My father's mother, a woman who belonged to a family, that for many generations had been
                    accustomed to education, did not neglect the schooling of her four sons. She saw to it that they all
                    became college-trained men. I have in my possession the diploma of my father who was graduated from
                    Bethany College, 
                        Virginia
                    . It is dated July 4, 1846, and signed by that noted American divine, Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    . Another signature is that of R. Richardson, Professor of Chemistry.
            My father, having been left without a father in infancy, and, having had the example of his Uncle
                    Joseph Frazee as his guardian, was always considerate and solicitious for widows and orphans. Many
                    estates did he settle as executor, never once charging for his services. During his active life, the
                    Circuit Court of Rush and 
                        Fayette Counties
                     never convened without his having some report to make or some cause to plead. Naturally
                    fitted intellectually for the law, with a judicial mind, he was a success in court and knew more law
                    than some who made law their profession. Twice he was honored by Rush and 
                        Decatur Counties
                    , being sent as their joint-representative to the State legislature. He was urgently
                    requested to accept a third term, but since he never approved of the acceptance of a third term by
                    anyone, he declined. He had many disappointments, many heartaches, was more than once treacherously
                    betrayed by men whom he thought friends, but he never wavered. He never lost heart and always kept
                    his wonderful faith in the Heavenly Father, believing beyond any doubt that "whom the Lord
                    loveth he chasteneth," and that eventually all things work together for good for those who
                    love, serve, and trust in God.
            My father was in his thirty-seventh year when the Civil War began. At this age, besides being a
                    preacher with ten children, he was not expected to go to war. His duty was rather to care for the
                    country-side during this great national upheaval. His brothers, all older than he, had passed the
                    age of enlistment. The family burden in this respect fell upon the younger generation, on his
                    nephews, the sons of his oldest brother, Joseph Samuel. Father and his next older brother, William
                    Doniphan, were for the Union. Their two older brothers were in sympathy with the Confederacy. His
                    mother, a southener, was very bitter against the Government for waging war  on the South. Father's older children were girls. He had no
                    son old enough to enter the service. The two nephews who volunteered were sons of Joseph Samuel. The
                    eldest, John Paul, fought for the Union, while Louis, the next son, fought for the Confederacy. My
                    cousin, John Paul, told me in later years that he and his brother met once during the war. The two
                    armies were encamped within close range and the brothers were able to meet at a dividing fence and
                    talk together.
            When the four years of horror had passed and the wonderful news came that General Lee had
                    surrendered, joy was un-confined through the North. Often have I heard my mother relate that when
                    the glad tidings came the word was passed from mouth to mouth. Heralds hurried on their fastest
                    horses to shout the news to all who were within hearing distance. Every farmer had a dinner bell,
                    and, when the news was shouted out, each bell was set to ringing. My father stood for three hours
                    and rang our bell, pealing out the tidings as far as the tones would carry, when joy and peace were
                    heralded to the countryside.
            Father was one of the patrons and founders of 
                        Butler
                     College. As long as he was physically able, he attended the Board meetings. He took
                    great pride in the College, as a school of the Christian Church, and raised a large portion of the
                    funds to establish it. He gave liberally of his own means, expecting the new institution to become a
                    second Bethany. For my part, I am thankful that he did not live to see an agnostic fill a chair of
                    instruction nor to see the school pass from its original paramount purpose, that of educating young
                    men and young women in the simple gospel of the New Testament, an object so dear to his heart. In
                    other things he needs would have submitted to the inevitable changes of progress.
            My father lived the life of a pioneer leader in Indiana, and was one of the builders of civilization
                    in the new State. He was a born leader and many-sided in his vision of life. As our forefathers
                    would have said, "He was a man of parts." He led his community in its educational,
                    religious and social development. In moral courage, in civic pride, in the cultivation of farms and
                    in the raising of live stock he was at the front.
            In addition to being a preacher, teacher, politician and executor of estates, he was a successful
                    breeder of registered cattle and of Percheron 
                        Norman
                     and Clydesdale horses. His reputation  as such
                    reached far beyond the borders of our own State. Men from all sections of Indiana and elsewhere
                    purchased from him valuable and beautiful registered stock. He was a real benefactor to the State in
                    this capacity. Coming to Indiana when the State was comparatively new, when it needed men of force,
                    wisdom, and discretion, he became a responsible and most valuable citizen.
            About the year 1875, he possessed his first show-herd of short-horn cattle, which was the forerunner
                    of the show-herds extending over all the remaining years of his active life. During the last few
                    years of his activities in this line, he owned two marvelous show-herds of short-horn cattle which
                    he exhibited far and wide at the County and State fairs, not only in Indiana but in adjoining
                    States. He brought home many "ribbons," but the number cannot be estimated at this
                    late day.
            He was the force and guiding influence in organizing the first Live Stock Association of America. He
                    assisted in publishing the Short-Horn-Herd-Book, in which all his own and all
                    other blooded-stock were registered. Many volumes of this Herd-Book accumulated,
                    until they completely filled one of his bookcases.
            The breeding of fine Percheron and Clydesdale horses was as much a hobby with him as the production
                    of blooded cattle. The great draft horses that he owned were very like those that one sees to-day on
                    the streets of the cities of 
                  England, France, Belgium
                and 
                        Switzerland
                    —large, powerful, beautiful, gentle, just such as are portrayed in that
                    famous picture by Rosa Bonheur, "The Horse Fair," which hangs in the Metropolitan
                    Museum of 
                        New York City
                    .
            When a little more than twenty-two years of age, on March 9, 1847, he was married to Frances Austen
                    who was two years his junior. To this union were born twelve children, eight of whom, four sons and
                    four daughters, lived to maturity. Seven of the eight married and reared families.
            The Reverand Ephraim Samuel Frazee was a remarkable father. His demeanor, his conversation and
                    influence in the home were always ennobling and of the highest order. His conversation was cheerful,
                    clean, wholesome and witty. Our home was in no sense a "common" one. Neighborhood
                    gossip and the meddling in the affairs of others were things not tolerated, nor was immodesty or
                    vulgarity of either word or action.  He gave his children a
                    college education, and was always liberal and generous with them in the things necessary to their
                    development and welfare. He desired to lead them into lives of usefulness and responsibility. His
                    children have lived to appreciate their heritage and honor his memory.
            In all his struggles and joys he had a sympathetic partner in his loyal wife. A woman of rare
                    intellect and education, she was a help to him in his literary pursuits as much as in his every day
                    walk of life. She was an ever present and necessary help to him as a critic of his sermons and other
                    public addresses. She could, with a quick discernment, see the strong points and errors in his
                    composition. He relied much on her judgment as to the proper language through which to express
                    himself clearly and to the point. Few people knew this of our mother; she was so modest, so timid
                    and so retiring in her disposition. Nevertheless, her mind was of a high order and her mental
                    perception was keen. She thoroughly understood her husband's mentality, his work, and his
                    usefullnes. She was a true and helpful companion, who never failed him in sickness, nor in health.
            He was the power that caused the gravel road to be built from Fayetteville [
                        Orange
                    ] to Falmouth, a distance of seven miles, a big undertaking in the period of
                    father's active life. He also had built the gravel road leading from Fayetteville to 
                        Rushville
                    , intercepting the 
                        Rushville
                     and Glenwood (then 
                        Vienna
                    ) gravel road at the old 
                        Rush County
                     Fair-grounds. This pike was also seven miles in length. After six miles of this road
                    had been completed, reaching within one mile of Fayetteville, and to the west boundary of our home
                    farm, the funds were exhausted. The neighbors had donated to the extent of their means and despair
                    almost possessed them. My father would not give up. He, with the assistance of James Davis, a
                    neighbor and brother in our church, strained their own resources and paid for the last mile out of
                    their own funds, dividing the expense between them, each paying the sum of $1,000. These
                    were large gifts for those days, especially after each had originally given liberally of both labor
                    and money.
            Years went by and the country advanced. Public sentiment resented the toll-gates on the pikes. People
                    began to imagine that my father was financially benefited by the toll receipts,  though he seldom received sufficient funds for the annual repair for
                    years.
            A generation grew up who knew little of my father's early struggles, nor of the civic work
                    he had accomplished, nor of the condition of the community before he became the helper and leader.
                    It was this generation that resented the toll-gates. One seldom wins in combating public sentiment
                    when once a wrong notion is in the minds of the people, so my father was a loser in this. It nearly
                    broke his heart to hear his efforts and achievements for the public good spoken of as personal
                    aggrandizment. It caused him much grief and was a bitter disappointment to him to realize that his
                    work was not appreciated. He was grieved to see, a few years later, these roads became free to the
                    public, especially to the teamsters who hauled to nearby sawmills heavy loads of logs. It required
                    from four to six horses to pull these loads and deep ruts were made in the roads. Repair work was
                    neglected, the pikes became full of mud-holes and a part of father's work seemed in vain.
                    Were he living to-day he could see that his efforts were in time followed by greater achievements.
                    Such are the disappointments and trials of progress. Now, though we have no toll-gates in Indiana,
                    the people willingly pay automobile license fees and road taxes. Money for highway construction and
                    upkeep is paid for by every purchaser of gasoline. Now, not only in Rush and 
                        Fayette Counties
                    , but checkering our whole nation are wonderful concrete roads, and the people must pay
                    for them. Such are the inevitable epoch making changes that have come.
            My father little realized in his last years that his period was just closing, and that a new, very
                    different, very much more advanced period was just beginning. He never saw nor heard of an
                    automobile, but my mother, who survived him fourteen years, lived both to see and ride in a
                    "nineteen-ten" Packard car.
            My father manufactured the tile with which to drain his land. He always had the first piece in the
                    community of any new type of farm machinery. He owned the first reaper, the first carriage, the
                    first buggy, the first double-plow, the first harrow, and the first wheat-binder. He bought mother
                    the first sewing machine in the community, the first washing machine and the first clothes wringer.
                    I still remember the first  window screens made of mosquito-bar,
                    which were a marvel to every one who saw them. We had never seen nor heard of window screens until
                    one day a visitor in our home, President Otis A. Burgess of 
                        Butler
                     College, told my mother about having seen them in use. He described them to her and she
                    at once resolved to install them. No sooner said than done—the next day we had a
                    carpenter, Mr. John George, making frames for screens. Not long after we had the real thing. This
                    was in the summer of 1875.
            From boyhood my father was deeply religious and ever took an active part in the church. When yet a
                    young man, he gave land from his inheritance for a church lot and a cemetery for the Little Flat
                    Rock Church in 
                        Rush County
                     where he and his mother held their membership. In this cemetery, he and mother, both,
                    lie buried.
            In our home my father always conducted daily family worship, after the manner and example of the man
                    who was his model in many things, Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    . Before breakfast the family was assembled. Father led in the reading of the
                    Scriptures, while we read alternately a verse each through the chapter. No child who could spell out
                    the words was ever excused, and father never lost his patience with the slow efforts of the child
                    just learning to read. After a chapter in the New Testament was read, we all knelt in front of our
                    chairs and father offered prayer, in which he never failed to express a desire that each of his
                    children should be led into lives of usefulness, in whatever community fate might place them. After
                    prayer, a chapter was read in the Old Testament, then we had our breakfast. It seems fair to mention
                    that mother would place the newly made biscuits in the oven just before worship began, and, with a
                    well-regulated wood fire, they would be ready for the table by the time the service was over.
            I do not know how many times the Bible was read through by the family in this manner. I do know that
                    all the children learned how to pronounce all biblical names and seemed to know more about the Bible
                    than any of their associates in the neighborhood.
            Father was not especially educated for the ministry, but at Bethany College, under the teaching of
                    Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , he had good religious training and liberal instruction in the Bible.  When a student at Bethany he followed the bent of his family for
                    medicine and graduated in the school of Chemistry.
            Religiously inclined and having the family intuition for public speaking, he made such an impression
                    as an exhorter, that he was early called upon to lead the prayer-meeting, to serve at the
                    "Lord's Table" and to fill the pulpit at times of vacancies. In the
                    Christian Church, the communion is observed every "Lord's Day." His
                    assistance eventually led to regular preaching, which resulted in forty years of continuous
                    activity. During these forty years, besides filling the pulpiit at Fayetteville, he was often called
                    upon to preach at neighboring churches. He frequently supplied at 
                  Columbia, Laurel
               ,
                    Andersonville, Fairview, 
                        Connersville
                    , Ben Davis Creek, 
                  Clarksburg,
                            Greensburg, Shelbyville, Rushville
               , and other
                    places. He preached somewhere every Sunday, or "Lord's Day" as he called
                    it. When a member of the State Legislature he performed the duties of Chaplain.
            He was popular and gifted as the deliverer of funeral discourses, and was called far and wide for
                    that purpose. He performed many marriage ceremonies. Divorces then were rare, but he never consented
                    to perform the marriage ceremony for a divorced person. Only once was he not given a fee for
                    officiating at a wedding. According to the early custom in the Christian Church, he never required
                    nor accepted a fee for preaching a sermon or delivering a funeral discourse, but he accepted fees
                    for performing marriage ceremonies, two dollars being by custom the minimum fee. Always fond of fun
                    and clean jokes he used to tell of an experience where he performed the ceremony for a rather
                    penurious man who was being married a second time. After the ceremony the groom asked my father what
                    fee he charged. His reply was: "Well, it depends upon the kind of woman a man marries. If
                    he marries a very fine lady he usually pays a pretty good fee but if he marries an ordinary woman
                    the fee is not so large." The happy groom handed him fifty cents.
            For forty years my father preached for the village church in 
                        Orange
                    , or Fayetteville as it was formerly called. Usually, he preached three
                    "Lord's Days" each month. The other Sunday, the pulpit was filled by some
                    one of our preachers from a distance. My own memory goes back to the days of Daniel 
                        Franklin
                    , Brother Houshour and Samuel Matthews, who sometimes  preached for us. Later we had paid ministers for one Sunday each month. President Otis A. Burgess
                    of 
                        Butler
                     College served us two years at $300 a year for the one
                    "Lord's Day" out of each month. My father paid most of the salary. Love
                    Jameson, Allen R. Benton, a later President of 
                        Butler
                    , James W. Connor, D. R. VanBuskirk, Walter S. Campbell and David Matthews, were others
                    from the outside who were employed at intervals. Henry R. Pritchard, James P. Orr, and Harvey W.
                    Everest preached for us. On those Sundays when the local pulpit was filled by a visiting minister,
                    my father was free to preach at one of the other churches. He usually had several appointments
                    ahead. He had many more requests from the outlaying congregations than he could fill.
            As a preacher, my father was a near-bishop for our section of the State. While the Christian Church
                    has no bishops, his functions were much the same as those of a Bishop in other church organizations.
                    He was a natural peace-maker. Living as he did during the days of denominational antogonisms and
                    hatred, he was kept busy pouring oil on troubled waters. Many times he was called in to arbitrate
                    ugly disputes, and I remember no occasion when his advice was heeded that affairs were not settled
                    amicably. He could discern with unerring judgment the good and the bad on both sides of a dispute.
                    He always said that the good was never all on one side, nor all the bad on the other. He knew how to
                    show such things up without giving offense. He could generally succeed in making the members of each
                    party feel their own shortcomings and errors and could then obtain forgiveness from one group for
                    the other. Much good did he do in his part of the State in this capacity.
            He lived a clean, moral, religious, sympathetic and generous life. His example was surely seldom
                    equalled in any community of this State or any other. My father died at this home near 
                        Orange
                     in 
                  Rush County, Indiana
               , on June 4, 1896, from cancer of the eye. His funeral discourse
                    was preached by Allen R. Benton, then President of 
                        Butler
                     College, a life long friend, and an old classmate at Bethany. When a young man
                    struggling to get a start as a teacher, President Benton lived at my father's house. The
                    text of the funeral discouse was: "Know ye not that a great man and Prince in 
                        Israel
                     is fallen this day?" President Benton put his whole heart and soul into the
                    full meaning of his text and with trembling voice and deep sincerity  pronounced a touching eulogy, showing how keenly he felt the loss of
                    his old classmate, who had befrended him at the time when as a young man he had needed a
                    friend—when it meant so much to him to be befriended.
            Attending father's funeral there was the greatest concourse of people ever gathered together
                    in that community for such a purpose. Laborers who had served him on his farm drove with horse and
                    buggy as far as twenty miles to pay him tribute and to recount tales of his goodness to them while
                    in his service.
            One of my sisters, Catharine, married Vachel Thomas Lindsay and became the mother of Vachel Lindsay.
                    My father did not live to know the fame of this grandson. It would have been to him a source of
                    pride to have known of the enthusiastic welcome accorded to Mr. Lindsay in 1919, when lecturing and
                    reciting at 
                        Oxford
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                     Universities. He would have been delighted to have read and to have heard the poet
                    recite "The Proud Farmer." This poem was written in honor of my father, Ephraim
                    Samuel Frazee. It presents a clearer idea of his life and work than this sketch and will serve as a
                    fitting close to my effort.
            
                    THE PROUD FARMER
                    Into the acres of the new-born state He poured his strength and plowed his ancient name And when
                        the traders followed him he stood Towering above their furtive souls and tame.
                    That brow without a stain, that fearless eye Oft left the passing stranger wondering To find such
                        knight-hood in the sprawling land To see a democrat well nigh a king.
                    He lived with liberal hand, with guests from far With talk, and joke and fellowship to spare
                        Watching the wide world's life from sun to sun Lining his walls with books from
                        everywhere.
                    He read by night. He built his world by day The farm and house of God to him were one, For forty
                        years he preached, and plowed and wrought A statesman in the field who bent to none.
                    His plowman neighbors were as lords to him, His was an ironside, democratic pride. He served a
                        rigid Christ but served him well, And for a life time saved the country-side.
                    
                    Here lie the dead who gave the church their best Under his fiery preaching of the World. They
                        sleep with him beneath the rugged grass. The village withers, by his voice unstirred.
                    And though his tribe be scattered to the wind, From the Atlantic to the China Sea, Yet do they
                        think of that bright light he burned Of family worth and proud integrity.
                    And many a sturdy grandchild hears his name In reverence spoken, till he feels akin To all the
                        lion-eyed who built the world And lion dreams begin to burn within.
                    —VACHEL LINDSAY.
                
         
         
         
            The Passing of Jesse Birch
            By ELMORE BARCE
            
            In the purple and gold of the summer—with the cone-flower and the helianthus in full
                    bloom, Jesse Birch passes— passes forever from the great prairies, the pleasant groves,
                    the places made sacred by the memories of the past. He loved them all—the vast
                    perspective of sky and plain—the fields of corn rustling in the sunshine—the
                    songs of the birds and the beauty of the flowers.
            To live wholly in the past—to search out every nook and cranny for some fact of historic
                    interest—to walk in the footsteps and record the experiences of men and women long since
                    dust—may not arouse the enthusiasm or engage the attention of the present age, but the
                    day will come in this community when future generations will have cause to revere the memory of a
                    man who for a quarter of a centry assidiously scrutinized every tradition, unraveled every tale,
                    pored over every ancient document and dusty tome, to preserve to the people of this locality and of
                    the whole State, the story of their pioneer forbears. There was not a single ancient landmark, a
                    cluster of oak trees, an old rock by the wayside, that did not hold for him an absorbing interest.
                    To a mind such as his, the one element of life above all others was loyalty—loyalty to
                    all the sorrows and struggles of the past—loyalty to tradition, tribe and clan
                    —loyalty above all to one's own hearthstone and family fireside. To him the
                    little village that sprang up on the edge of the grand prairie—that became and was the
                    parent and mother of all the civilization that followed—was a hallowed place. The old
                    paths that reached out into the plains beyond—the places where the children played about
                    the old academy—the quiet cemeteries with their flat slabs of stone—were all
                    sacrosanct. To wander too far away from these old associations and  scenes—to cast aside as worthless all the lessons of the
                    past—were, perhaps, fraught with danger.
            A nation of people being made up of its component parts, the foremost workman in the temple is the
                    town or country chronicler—the man who takes us into the homes, and teaches us the
                    manners and customs of the every day folk—the common men and women who have always made
                    up the great preponderating body of America's citizenship. To understand these people the
                    faithful annalist records their sacrifices. Did they seek out new lands? It was but to build up a
                    home in the wilderness for their coming children. Did they erect rude frontier churches and log
                    schools? It was but to enlighten and educate those children. Did they establish the court house and
                    the seat of justice? It was but to bring about the rule or right in the affairs of men.
                    Enlightenment, intelligence, decorum—these are always the marks of true greatness. It was
                    given to Birch to vividly portray all the struggles, the pains, the adversities and the heroic
                    sacrifices of the early settlers of this county. He did it faithfully and well, without any possible
                    hope of reward, and the children of the future who read his narratives will have a loftier
                    conception of those stalwart souls who blazed the trail. To work, to strive, to arduously endeavor
                    for the good of others, is the highest conception yet attained of man's duty to his Creator
                    and to his fellow beings.
            Birch commenced his investigations at the time when he first began to edit the old 
                  
                            Oxford
                         Tribune. A few still survived who had been young men at the time of the
                    establishment of the town in 1843. Many remembered distinctly the stirring scenes of ante-bellum
                    days—the call for volunteers—the going forth of the Tenth and Fifteenth
                    Indiana Regiments. From these original characters, from old family letters and papers, from the
                    records in the public archives and other sources, he began the construction of a series of short
                    tales and accounts, which, as time passed, and the correlation of facts and events became apparent,
                    gradually evolved into a connected whole. Never was a tale more interesting or dramatic! The
                    migration of the Potawatomi Tribes, the coming of the prairie schooner that boldly struck out from
                    the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     into the great prairies—the building of the cabin and the breaking up of the
                    sod— the fight with fevers and malaria—the struggles with prairie fires in the
                    autumn and with the terrible blizzards  of the
                    winter—the opening of the Civil War—the bugle call to arms and the marching
                    away of the hosts—are all in the picture. Out of these gradually emerges the gigantic
                    form of the Republic.
            The days of reconstruction that followed the War—the herds that roamed through the
                    bull-grass and the blue-stem—the yokes of oxen that plowed up the plains and furrowed out
                    the first drains—the laying out of the primitive roads and highways, and eventually the
                    construction of the long lines of iron rails that connected the fields of corn and droves of cattle
                    with the marts of the great cities, are all accurately and sedulously set forth, and all at once you
                    percieve that he whom you had rated as the village annalist, is in truth and in fact one of the
                    historians of the Nation, setting forth in detail and for the permanent advantage of the people the
                    story of one of those typical communities which go to make up the body of the empire.
            Nor has Mr. Birch neglected those finer things of life—the eager reaching out of the
                    people for art and story, for song and poesy, for the higher and nobler sentiments and emotions,
                    that make the weary toil for existence lighter and happier. One of the proud moments of his life was
                    the occasion when he was able to present the charming tale of the Carey Sisters, of their long
                    residence in 
                        Oxford
                    , and of their first efforts in that field of literature and song in which they
                    afterwards became so justly famous. For years he was a contributor to historical
                    magazines—took pleasure and delight in preparing articles on family history and church
                    affairs, and closed up a long and useful career by preparing and compiling for the American Legion a
                    painstaking list of all the soldiers living and dead who had entered the World War from 
                        Benton County
                    .
            His was an unostentatious life. For years he was a sufferer from physical ills that gave him endless
                    distress and misery. That he was a true lover of his fellow men is evidenced by his long and patient
                    toil in their behalf, and in and about the preservation of the traditions which have made their
                    history illustrious. The only fitting monument to his endeavors would be the publication of his many
                    and interesting writings for the edification of that public which he so faithfully served.
         
         
         
            Documents
            The letters printed below were written to the Hon. John G. Davis of 
                  Rockville, Indiana
               . They
                    were written by Democrats who were loyal to Stephen A. Douglas in the period of his contest with
                    President Buchanan. They reveal something of what was going on in the minds of local Democratic
                    leaders of Indiana, in regard to the Lecompton controversy. In the warfare between the anti-Douglas
                    forces of the State, who were led by Senator Jesse Bright, and the champions of Douglas, the victory
                    went almost entirely to the latter. Senator Graham N. Fitch, like Bright, was hostile to Douglas.
                    John G. Davis, member of the House from a western Indiana congressional district from 1851 to 1855
                    and again from 1857-1861, was devoted to Douglas. He was a friend and adviser of local Democrats who
                    were enlisted in the cause of the Little Giant. Letters that Davis received were preserved by him,
                    but he seems not to have retained copies of the letters written by himself.
            [JAMES M. LUCAS TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              CLOVER LAND,1 IND.
                           
                                    Dec. 28, 1857.
                        HONORED & ESTEEMED SIR,
                        I hope you are in good health. I rec'd Hon. S. A. Douglass speech upon the 
                                        Kansas
                                     question from you the last mail. I had previously received it from Mr.
                                    Douglass….I read the President's Message with much satisfaction!
                                    His views upon state paper money does not go as far as I am prepared to go. He seems
                                    to rely upon them yet as a safe currency. In the past 50 years the American people
                                    has lost by state paper money enough, to wind up the rotton dishonest concerns. I do
                                    not say all Banks are managed badly, some are managed wisely. The constitutional
                                    currency, gold & silver, I am in favor of and no more Banks of issue. His
                                    views upon the Interference 
                              
                                 1 Cloverland, 
                                                Clay County
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     of Am. citizens in crusades to change Foreign
                                    governments is good— And most of his views upon the 
                                        Kansas
                                     question I am in favor of. I am In favor of the 
                                        Kansas
                                     and 
                                        Nebraska
                                     Act— I believe the people are the sovereign power not only
                                    in a State but in a Territory, The voice of a majority fairly expressed must be
                                    supreme. This is the very essence of our Democracy—vox
                                        populi, vox Dei, is the true watchword of the Power of the people in this
                                    Country. To force a Constitution over the protest and Will of a majority of the
                                    People is not Democratic—once assume that a minority can control and
                                    shape government for a majority and the main Pillar of Republican government is
                                    gone. If a minority of 3,000 men, can control 9,000 men in 
                                        Kansas
                                    , then carry this principal to its full extent one man
                                    (Emperor Dictator or Autocrat) can control and make Laws and Govern millions of men.
                                    But we know our people cherish this principle as the main principle of our politcial
                                    system. I am opposed to both Constitutions for 
                                        Kansas
                                    —gotten up as they have been. Neither party in 
                                        Kansas
                                     has been anything but factions. Neither part was Democratic, there was
                                    many Democrats in both, according as they were in favor of a Free or Slave State.
                                    Although we here at Clover Land, are 700 miles from 
                                        Kansas
                                    , we are well posted in regard to 
                                        Kansas
                                     parties. Several of our citizens have been been there—one I
                                    [?] B. Yocum, was there and through a good part of the Territory in
                                    1856—another man, a good Democrat moved there last year and moved back to 
                                        Clay
                                     Co. this fall. He told me he did not like either Party in 
                                        Kansas
                                    , and on account of their bad principles and bad conduct he would not
                                    stay in 
                                        Kansas
                                    . He said he could not act with the Free State party, and was opposed to
                                    Slavery. I have not seen a Democrat here in facor of admitting 
                                        Kansas
                                     with the Lecompton Constitution. There is 5 subscribers to the Union at 
                                        Washington
                                     here and 1 subscriber to Pennsylvanian at 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     here, everyone of which is opposed to it. you know Peter Eppert who is
                                    and has been always a Democrat. He said he read the L [ecompton] Consititntion and
                                    is opposed to it. The Know Nothing Party had a controling influence in the
                                    convention at Lecompton. As the Abolitionists controled the 
                                        Topeka
                                     Constitntion, neigther has the Democratic ring in it. And we hope the
                                    Peoples House of Rep. in Congress will stand up for the right and
                                    Democracy—Let justice be done—If the Republicans come over to
                                    our Platform, so be it—We should not leave it, when they change front.
                                    Democracy is the people rule. Please send more Documents.
                        
                                    Your steady friend.
                                    JAMES M. LUCAS.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [H. K. WILSON TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              SULLIVAN, INDIANA
                           
                                    February 26th 1858.
                                
                        HON JOHN G. DAVIS
                        DEAR SIR
                        Before this reaches you, you will have received the news of the doings of our
                                    "Mass Meeting" at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on the 23. Owing to the condition of my family affairs, I could not
                                    leave home on that day. Murray Briggs attended he reports that it was all the
                                    friends of the move anticipated, it has made some of the Bright2
                                        Lecomptonites3 tremble, we will bing them to their senses,
                                    that they may feel their "awful situation" I hope before it be too
                                    late—The people here are determined to act and think for themselves, and
                                    not follow dictators any longer. Our Circuit Court is now in session. Judge Franklin
                                    was here Came direct from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . He received cold comfort, professes to be Buchanan, and anti
                                    Lecompton. Claypool feels uneasy, he is now presiding as Judge, but the outside
                                    manifestations don't suit him. Old Doc. Dain stayed with me last night he
                                    is Administration, his ambition is not yet satisfied. he can control nobody here, he
                                    thinks we are all going to the Devil and begs us not to commit ourselves on the
                                    Douglas platform.4 says we will have to take all back. We had a
                                    most glorious time last night. Gen. Linder5 at the request of
                                    some of our Douglas friends addressed the people at the Court House and altho a big
                                    Campbellite meeting was at the same time, he had a House full. He spoke for an hour
                                    and a half, and except when he was applauded you could have heard a pin fall, so
                                    deep and intense was the interest they took in the subject & speaker.
                        You know Linder. The audience were not only convinced, but they were thrilled, and I
                                    might say when he dwelt on the wrongs done to 
                                        Kansas
                                    , and the course pursued towards Douglas they were maddened and enraged.
                                    He handled Bright without Gloves and showed him up as a tool of the South &
                                    of Buchanan. He told the people that Douglas was entitled to the nomination at the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Convention,6 and if the Indiana delegation had been
                                    true to their pledges he would have been President. He treated with scorn the idea
                                    of reading Douglas and his friends, out of the party. He said they would have to
                                    read the whole North West out of the party and when that was done they would be read
                                    into a most contemptible minority, that the party could not live a moment without
                                    Douglas. It was just the speech for the time and occasion. Linder
                                    is well posted on the whole 
                                        Kansas
                                     question, it is a great pity he has not 
                              
                                 2 Jesse D. Bright, 
                                                United States
                                             Senator from Indiana from 1845 to 1862. He was for a number of
                                            years a power in the Democratic party of the State. After 1857, he was an
                                            enemy of Douglas.
                              
                                 3 Those who favored the admission of 
                                                Kansas
                                             under the Lecompton Constitution.
                              
                                 4 Douglas broke with Buchanan during the session of
                                            1857-1858 over the President's recommendation that 
                                                Kansas
                                             be admitted under the Lecompton Constitution.
                              
                                 5 General Usher F. Linder of 
                                                Illinois
                                            . He had been a Whig, but, refusing to join the Republican
                                            party, became an ardent supporter of Douglas. After 1858, he was known as
                                            "For-God's-Sake" Linder, because Douglas had
                                            wired him the following message during the 
                                                Illinois
                                             campaign of that year: "The hell-hounds are on my
                                            track. For God's sake Linder, come and help me fight
                                            them."
                              
                                 6 The Democratic national convention of 1856 was held
                                            at 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            .
                           
                                     the time to go about through Indiana and the N.
                                    West and address the people. Everything is right here for Douglas you may rest
                                    assured. After Linder had finished his speech, he took the vote on Mr. Douglas and
                                    his course on the 
                                        Kansas
                                     question & upon the Democracy running him as their candidate in
                                    1860, the vote was taken by rising, and nearly every person (Hamil excepted) in the
                                    House rose to their feet, their was not over 6 left sitting and they half women.
                                    After they had taken their seats, he put the other side of the question Not one
                                    arose. He tells me as he told the audience last night that 
                                        Illinois
                                     is as one man for the "Little Giant" The few Bright
                                    men here are down in the mouth. Linder has promised me to go to 
                                        Bloomfield
                                     and speak. Andy was here last night, he would not stay to hear the
                                    speech, he was en route for 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . The mass meeting will require the Clique to be called together. I want
                                    you to write to me as I have no doubt of your being in the confidence of Mr.
                                    Douglas, giving me some idea of what course we are to pursue, it is useless to
                                    expect the Democracy here to support a Lecomptonite. I do not think we can do it
                                    altho he may be endorsed by the 
                                        Charleston
                                     Convention. What will Mr. Douglas do, will he be read out of the party
                                    or will he suffer his name to go before the 
                                        Charleston
                                     Convention. I suppose not however, Or will he permit his name to be
                                    used by his friends in the North, please to give me some items on the subject and
                                    rely on my discretion and confidence, and silence.
                        The anti Lecompton fever here grows hotter every day, the more discussion, the
                                    hotter, But mark one thing we will never consent that Mr. Douglas shall occupy any
                                    but the first place in any Combination of parties, that may take place—I
                                    have written this letter too long. You can say to Mr. Douglas that "Old
                                    Sullivan" is almost unanimous for him. No matter who may be on the other
                                    side, we are actuated by the principles of 1856 and there we will stand upright and
                                    unpurchasable.
                        I must say to you that your course meets the approbation of all, if any think to the
                                    contrary, they are ashamed or afraid to own it. I fear for our ticket, the
                                    Candidates will have to take the field on the platfrom as interpreted by them,
                                    won't it be rich! Bright and Fitch7 repudiating and the
                                    candidates at home advocating the doctrine of popular sovereignty as heln by Mr.
                                    Douglas. No more. I beg pardon for writing this long letter You will grow tired of
                                    reading it
                        
                                    Yours
                                    H. K. WILSON
                                
                        We had a fine son born on the 22nd which prevented me from going to the
                                    Convention, if our County was not overrun with the names, I would call him
                                    "Davis" or "Douglas"
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  7 Dr. Graham N. Fitch of 
                     Logansport, United States
                   Senator
                        from Indiana from 1857 to 1861. For the time being, he was acting with Senator Bright, and was
                        hostile to Douglas.
            
            
            [SMITH JONES TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              JONESVILLE,8
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 22, 1859
                                
                        HON JOHN G. DAVIS
                        DEAR SIR
                        I have no doubt, but that your time is fully occupied, without being troubled with
                                    suggestions from me Yet feeling confident, as I do, that you and I concur in
                                    political sentiment, I feel at liberty to address you a few lines. Our County
                                    Convention has not yet been held Brother Charles, and I, with other Douglass men
                                    intend to make an effort to control our convention We want to make a last effort to
                                    place the democratic party in Indiana on a platform that will enable us to secure a
                                    triumph in 1860 In order to accomplish that purpose, we must declare unequivocally
                                    in our State platform, that. If a majority of the people of a Territory are opposed
                                    to slavery they have a right to make laws to exclude it and if in favor of slavery
                                    they have a right to make laws for its protection and that it is no part of the duty
                                    of Congress to Legislate neither for the protection nor the exclusion of Slavery in
                                    the Territories; without this declaration in our platform we may as well quit and
                                    save our credit; and let the election go by default; and appropriate the time and
                                    expense usually devoted to electioneering to a more improved and perfect system of
                                    farming.
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    SMITH JONES
                                
                         do me the favor to write George E. Tingle a very liberal and clever
                                    Republican of our County will be in 
                                        Washington City
                                     seeking a clerkship in the House if you can favor his claims and not do
                                    injustice to good democrats you will confer a favor that will be properly
                                    appreciated by SMITH JONES
                     
                  
               
                
            [WM. M. DAILY TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Private
                                
                        
                                    
                              MADISON, INDIANA
                           
                                    Dec. 16th 1859
                                
                        HON JOHN G. DAVIS, M. C. Washington, D.C.
                        MY DEAR SIR:
                        The regular Democratic Convention was held in this (Jefferson) County on Tuesday,
                                    which resulted in a complete overthrow of the Bright faction. We endorsed S. A.
                                    Douglas by nearly an unanimous vote, appointed delegates to the State Convention all
                                    out and out enthusiastic Douglas men, and instructed them to vote for no man as
                                    delegate to the 
                                        Charleston
                                     Convention who was not in favor of Douglas as first choice for the
                                    Presidency. The organization in this County is now completely under 
                              
                                 8 Jonesville, 
                                                Bartholomew County
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     our control. The victory is complete and no
                                    mistake— Before it was over the Administration men entirely abondoned the
                                    fight, and retreated in silence before the overwhelming popular will of the masses
                                    of the Democracy—
                        The Telegraph informs us now that there is a strong probability that John G. Davis of
                                    Indiana will be elected Speaker by a combination of all the anti Republican elements. I sincerely hope this may be the
                                    case—and that the next time I see you I may address you as "Mr.
                                    Speaker". And I will add, "Remember me when thou comest in thy
                                    kingdom".
                        Address me at this place
                        
                           
                              Madison, Indiana
                           . In haste
                        God bless you—
                        
                                    Most Respectfully
                                    Your obedient Servant
                                    WM M. DAILY
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [JAMES M. LUCAS TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              CLOVER LAND, IND.
                           
                                    Dec. 18, 1859
                                
                        ESTEEMED SIR,
                        I received your line from 
                                        Rockville
                                     Ind. Saturday afternoon after 3 o'clock. Train had passed or
                                    else I would have seen you at 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    . I see no Speaker had been elected up to Friday evening, th 17th If the
                                    Democracy, I mean the Southern wing of the party are going to return to the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Platform of 1856, and stand by the rights of the People, then I advise
                                    you to act with your old Party. But if the main feature of the 
                                        Kansas
                                     and 
                                        Nebraska
                                     Bill is to be repudiated, and Judge Douglas with it, then never affiliate with the new Democracy, and act with that party [against]
                                    your principles. Remember Jefferson said "Measures not men". Names
                                    are nothing, Principles are eternal and the Democratic party must turn over a new
                                    leaf, in favor of economy, honesty in public affairs, and vindicate the right of the
                                    People, and not legalize slavery as national, with Supreme Court decisions, or
                                    defeat is certain and deserved. I think the South, after Gov. Wm Keist [?],
                                    Barksdale, Burnett11 and some others have discharged their
                                    braggat and disunion sentiments, will return to common sense and sober reason and
                                    stand by the Union, and its equal liberties to white men. Gov. 
                                        Wise
                                    
                           12 has made entirely too much "fuss and
                                    feathers" in regard to Harpers Ferry revolutionists. 
                              
                                 9 The omitted paragraph is one in which Mr. Daily asks
                                            the aid of Davis and Douglas in obtaining an appointive office.
                              
                                 10 In this omitted paragraph, the writer deals further
                                            with his desire to secure a place in 
                                                Washington
                                            .
                              
                                 11 The first name is difficult to decipher. The Editor
                                            is unable to determine what governor was meant, probably, the writer had in
                                            mind William Gist of 
                                                South Carolina
                                            . William Barksdale, member of the national House from 
                                                Mississippi
                                            , 1853-1861, Henry C. Burnett, member of the House from 
                                                Virginia
                                            , 1855-1861.
                              
                                 12 Henry A. Wise, Governor of 
                                                Virginia
                                            .
                           
                                     He has acted like the whole North sanctioned
                                    and knew of it when perhaps not 500 men in all the Free States knew of Browns
                                    designs and not one man in 5,000 sanctions his bold but wicked
                                    designs—the great mass of the People in the Free States are on this very
                                    question of slavery, perfect non-Interventionists—they neither want to
                                    steal the Negroes, or catch them that has run away, their sentiment is
                                    "hands off with the nasty thing".
                        Please send me Documents and Books and seeds—You have hosts of Friends
                                    about here—I regret I did not see you in 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    —I wanted to have a conversation upon this question so
                                    exciting now, but I have no doubt of good judgment and wisdom upon this and all
                                    other questions. Do you want a new list of names for this office. Please write how
                                    Judge Douglas's chances are for the 
                                        Charleston
                                     nomination? And write when House is organized.
                        
                                    Your devoted Friend
                                    JAMES M. LUCAS
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [A. M. PUETT TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              GREENCASTLE,
                           
                                    Janr. 3rd 1860
                                
                        HON J. G. DAVIS
                        DR SIR
                        Yours has been reed I should have wrote you before this but have been delayed to hear
                                    from Virmillion I now learn it has instructed for D 
                                        Putnam
                                     went off well instructed for Douglass and Hendrix13
                                    If you are right in your conclusions and it turns out that the South refuses to go
                                    with us for Judge Douglass then the end has come with the only power that is
                                    competant to manage this gov. I for one will wait with hope that they may recover
                                    from such madness I do not however blame them so much as I do Bright, Bigler,14 Fitch As to the President his last message on the 
                                        Kansas
                                     question and the manner in which he belies the Supreme Court decision
                                    has with all right minded men rendered him ridickolious not only so but leaves no
                                    chance to us to excuse him he is not honest he is doted he is rotan Only thing for us to do is to stand by the principal & on that
                                    we will come up or this government is gone
                                    & and so help me God if the South is big fools enough to follow Old Buchanan
                                    in his dodges & will persist & refuse to suport Douglas I and
                                    thousands more will stand off & let the hell hounds in the shape of
                                    Ossowattomie 
                                        Brown
                                     pitch into them & let them see the kind of passengers they have
                                    wakend up.
                        Ours is a living principal, a right equal founded on a just form of Government and my
                                    advice is to support no man who is not at heart for 
                              
                                 13 Thomas A. Hendricks, whom the Douglas Democrats
                                            expected to nominate as a candidate for the Governorship of Indiana.
                              
                                 14 William Bigler, Democratic Senator from 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , 1855-1861.
                           
                                     it, for it body and Soul Then I love him
                                    otherwise I hate him for his degradation or dishonesty for one or the other does
                                    exist.
                        If you will allow me to command I will say Stand by the old ship with the flags
                                    waving & have on the helmet & bid defiance to North or South who are
                                    of [f] the Track So help me I will be there. Nerve with good horse sense is what we
                                    want now we can make the nerve & God will give us the other.
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    A. M. PUETT
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [JOSIAS H. ROBINSON TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              NICHOLSONVILLE, PUTNAM Co. IND.
                           
                                    Jan. 9th/60
                                
                        HON JNO. G. DAVIS:
                        Dear Sir—
                        I will take it as a great favor if you will furnish me with such political documents,
                                    as you may deem of interest to a politician; that may be for
                                    distribution.—I would like Judge Douglas' reply to Attorney
                                    General Black.—Also that of Reverdy Johnson—anything of
                                    sufficient interest to deserve a reading.
                        The Doctrines of Old Buck's15 late message, touching the
                                    slavery question, will certainly injure the Democratic party if adhered to. He has
                                    done more in my estimation, to injure and destroy the peace and influence of the
                                    party than any other man has had the power to do. Is he not now bidding for Southern
                                    influence in the 
                                        Charleston
                                     Convention?
                        What do you think of Judge Douglas' chance in the great Convention? 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Indiana have spoken for him in tones of thunder, &
                                    such will be the case in other conservative states. With Judge Douglas as a leader
                                    we can succeed—without him I have grave doubts. Be this
                                    as it may, I trust that God, in his infinite wisdom will guide this great,
                                    prosperous & happy Nation, to a harbor of safety. The virtue &
                                    intelligence of our numerous political leaders, who know how to estimate peace
                                    & happiness ought to insure such a result.
                        I do not regard 
                                        South Carolina
                                     as a suitable State to hold a National Democratic Convention in.
                        I think of appearing at the State Convention tomorrow.
                        I close with assurances to you of my highest regards.
                        
                                    JOSIAS H. ROBINSON
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [DR. W. S. PIERCE TO JOHN W. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Jany 14th 1806
                                
                        DEAR SIR
                        Yours is reed. Binghem16 has treated you well & I have
                                    made known to him your appreciation of his kindness. He will continue
                                        to so treat
                                    
                              
                                 15 The President, James Buchanan.
                              
                                 16 Joseph J. Bingham, a newspaper man who moved from 
                                                Lafayette
                                             to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in 1856 where he became one of the proprietors of the Indiana State Sentinel.
                              
                           
                                    
                                    you. You will have reed before this reaches you the proceedings of
                                    our convention Glory enough is it not. Our friends are wild with exultant
                                    enthusiasm. Pray let me know how the news fell upon the ears of friends as well as
                                        foes. How does Douglas take it. What did our ancient allies in
                                    the south say? What response from the President & his administration? Did
                                    they anticipate it. Hendricks17 nomination was one of the most
                                    flattering things I ever witnessed & when given him without a dissenting voice & when he went forward, the tumult was
                                    overpowering— Shouts waving of handkerchiefs hats & rising from
                                    the seats to do it told the intense satisfaction, which was enhanced by the fact
                                    that, everything else had been finished & this was the crowning
                                        act. The truth is we are all too happy. Now. Will Douglas keep his
                                    temper?—If he will we've got them.
                        Let me know how these things were reed soon & call on me to protect, your
                                    name, fame & standing here at any time.
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    W. S. P.18
                           
                                
                        Is the ninth & tenth Vol. of Rail Road reports out? I have up to the
                                    ninth and want the balance. Yrs. Truly
                     
                  
               
                
            [A. M. PUETT TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              GREENCASTLE,
                           
                                    Janr. 15th 1860.
                                
                        HON J. G. DAVIS
                        
                                    
                                        WASHINGTON CITY
                                    
                                
                        DEAR SIR
                        Your last leter came too late for me to answer you in time to reach before the
                                    convention you was right in your conclusion about coming it depended on the
                                    organization I encline to the opinion that he Jons19
                            is your friend but did not look from the same standpoint Now to
                                    the convention John we had a noble band of good men of course I
                                    omit a few who were very imprudent & they were so few that the wheels roll
                                    on; everything was done that could be done by the Administration that same old coon
                                        Jessee20 come here on Mony nyte & one F. Bigger the
                                    Syrene [siren] cry then commenced, "Harmony" Harmony was all they
                                    cared for & they said that could be had they insisted on us taking all
                                    candidates all the deligates But—But—not instruct this we
                                    could not obey & on Tuesday evening some one discovered the State of Indiana
                                    entirely out of Jessee's20 Breaches Pocket and in the
                                    Masonic Hall declaring its Indip. the particulars I can not attempt to give you but
                                    I will 
                              
                                 17 The Democratic State Convention nominated Hendricks
                                            for Governor.
                              
                                 18 Only the initials, "W. S. P.",
                                            were signed to this letter, but Davis indorsed on the back of the
                                            communication: "Letter of Dr. W. S. Pierce of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            ".
                              
                                 19 Aquilla Jones of 
                                                Greencastle
                                            . In the letter of Mr. Jones printed below, there is mention of
                                            the misunderstanding of himself by Davis.
                              
                                 20 Senator Jesse Bright. The F. Bigger who is here
                                            referred to was probably Finley Bigger, brother of Samuel Bigger who was
                                            Governor of Indiana 1841-1844.
                           
                                     say this much: there was very little to regret
                                    and you being absent you may think some men were put in Nomanation that should not
                                    have been but if you had been here as I was & know all the reasons you in my
                                    judgment would have exulted over all You know that it is
                                    impossible [to] have all men behave themselves & when that is so they need a
                                    little dis-opointment it helps to bring them to their real senses The particulars I
                                    will give you There were some funy things done and said I will say we had Beet Slack
                                    with Turpy21 & I say to you I incline to think it would
                                    be well considered for you to write a leter to him congratulating him on his success
                                    the papers has reached you before this the vote in convention on the resolution to
                                    instruc for Douglass was 268 to 127—Douglass should be proud of his
                                    friends his real ones such as you & I who stood as you
                                    know at the Mouth of the Cannon's it, I find is easy to pretend to be a
                                    mans friend but a very diferant thing when you make bare your arm to receve the
                                    shafts all loafers in their private sick rooms such divies [devices]
                        Now Davis you have had, I seen some spar[r]ing with a Bottle or gug [jug] of Poter22 & a Dunn23 You was right upon the
                                    main point & I suppose you receve the Sentimal Bingham has done you justice
                                    I wish you had been a little more particular in giving your vote you should have
                                    said you received a very large Democratic vote the entire American vote &
                                    that the Republicans professing to have taken the Democratic ground then voted for
                                    you on the ground [of] having no candidate of their own I saw Dan Vorees24 who heard you & he says boldly that you are right in
                                    your speech replying to Poter and Dunn he told me he would make if necessary an
                                    afidavt to it indeed all good Democrats who oppose you say so The Republicans are
                                    very biter, they had been biter some time before the foray came up in Congress
                                    & I suppose they had written from this district to P & D &
                                    Brought the thing about You should be very careful and go with the Democratic party
                                    when you possibly can—where the principal is preserved we will have to
                                    fight inside & our State has got back on 56 grounds.
                        Should you need some leters to back you in what you said about your position on the
                                    question relating to the discussion of Court you can get all you want in every part
                                    of our district Give my respects to the Champion of Democratic principals the only
                                    man in my judgment we can elect president at the next election
                        
                                    Yours Very Truly
                                    A. M. PUETT
                                
                        P. S. if I can get mony to spare I will come down and see you about the last of
                                    March & go the rounds to 
                                        Charlestown
                                    A. M. P.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  21 David Turpie was nominated for Lieutenant Governor on the ticket with
                        Hendricks.
               
                  22 Albert G. Porter, Republican member of the national House of
                        Representatives from the 
                            Indianapolis
                         District of Indiana from 1869 to 1863.
               
                  23 William McKee Dunn of 
                     Madison, Indiana
                  , Republican member
                        of the national House from 1859-1863.
               
                  24 Daniel W. Voorhees, another of the younger Democratic leaders of
                        Indiana who became prominent just before the Civil War.
            
            
            [AQUILLA JONES TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    20 Jan. 1860
                                
                        JOHN G. DAVIS
                        has Bright turned up—I hope he has not run into the river—the
                                    last I heard of his he was crosing the river at 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    . I guess old Buck begins to think there is other men
                                    in Indiana—new men now will come up I would like to see you and talk
                                    about 4 hours. I was right in my advise to you about the Convention. I know you did
                                    not properly appreciate me but I hope it is all right now Mr. Douglas will have
                                    plenty of admirers now but I would reckon he knows who his real friends are. you
                                    ought to organize if possible It strikes me that Sickels proposition is a fair
                                    one— Write often
                        
                                    Respectfully
                                    AQUILLA JONES
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [AUSTIN H. BROWN TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    May 24th, 1860
                                
                        DEAR FRIEND:
                        I have not heard from you for a long while.
                        I have opinions in reference to the Presidential issue differing somewhat from our
                                    friends They ar these:
                        I presume there can be no doubt but that there will be 4 tickets in the field: the
                                    Bell; 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , Douglas and the Disunion tickets. 
                                        Lincoln
                                     in such an event will carry every Northern State except 
                                        California
                                    , and be elected. Douglas will not cause [carry] a state uless it be 
                                        California
                                    . Davis (if he be the Disunion candidate) will carry 
                              Mississippi, Alabama, South Carolina,
                                            Louisiana, Arkansas
                           , and 
                                        Florida
                                    . Bell the remaining Southern States. 
                                        Lincoln
                                     will be elected by the people. In this State 
                                        Lincoln
                                     will get the whole Republican vote, two thirds of the
                                        American25 vote, and three thousand German democratic votes.
                                    The secessionists, will have a separate electoral ticket and it will get some 7,000
                                    or 8,000 votes. The Bell ticket will get about 5,000 or 7,000 votes, and a large
                                    portion of them will be the votes of the old line Whigs who joined the Democratic
                                    party in 1854.
                        Knowing as I do that seccessionists truly represent the feelings of a large majority
                                    of the Southern democrats I rather hope that 
                                        Lincoln
                                     may be elected. It may have the effect to learn them some sense.
                        I presume if Douglas be nominated at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     that it will be done in such a way as not to giive satisfaction or as
                                    to impress the public mind in his favor.
                        If I were Douglas I should not hesitate to withdraw as his defeat by the people would
                                    do him no good. The man who might be nominated instead would be disgracefully beaten
                                    as he ought, and the consequences of 
                              
                                 25 Members of the American party, better known as Know
                                            Nothings.
                           
                                     it would be laid at the door of Bright
                                    & Co., and Douglas stand higher than ever before the people.
                        If it be determined however that he ought to be a candidate we should all work for
                                    him zealously, and convince the world that if defeat come, that the South are alone
                                    to blame.
                        Efforts are now being made to change Indiana and 
                                        New York
                                    . The thing cannot be done here and I hope not with N.
                                    Y.
                        Write me fully your views.
                        
                                    Yours Truly,
                                    AUSTIN H. BROWN28
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [JAMES M. LUCAS TO JOHN G. DAVIS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              CLOVER LAND IND
                           
                                    June 9, 1860
                                
                        HONORED AND ESTEEMED SIR
                        I received your last letter and read it with pleasure. I hope you and Judge Douglas
                                    friends in the convention will not compromise on my new man and if two thirds can
                                    not be obtained adopt the majority rule. The Democrats here are in favor of the rule
                                    being changed. A few papers in this State, in the Interests of the Administration
                                    are in favor of a Diversion of the Democratic convention at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     upon a new man—and they name Gov. Wright27 of this State. The 
                                        Greencastle
                                     Press, 
                                        Clay
                                     Co. Democrat and 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Sun have expressed such opinions. In fact our 
                                        Clay
                                     Co. Democrat said that Gov. Wright could get 5,000 more votes than any
                                    Democrat in Indiana What a false Idea! A leading Democrat told me the other day that
                                    he never would vote for Joe Wright, for he let his wife influence him to sign the
                                    prohibitory Temperance Bill. Tis after [over] strong Temperance opinions would loose
                                    him Indiana, Also in 
                                        Ohio
                                     some papers and Politicians name Wm Allen. He has not been engaged in 
                                        Ohio
                                     for the Democracy in 10 years. He has been in a Rip 
                                        Van
                                     Winkle sleep for nearly 15 years Gov. Seymour" has been named
                                    I am glad to see the [that he] postively declines Gen. Pearce29
                                    is named as the man who would be very popular with the South. He will
                                        not do in the North. He left the Presidency very unpopular. He is a very
                                    moderate man in Talents The whole great west is all on fire for
                                    Douglass! No other name is seriously thought of by 9/10 of the Democracy. The
                                    universal shout is Douglass and nobody else. With him we can certainly carry Indiana
                                    & 
                                        Illinois
                                    ! The people are for Douglass. look at the vote on the cars of May 28
                                    between 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on the Central Road—Douglas 78
                                    
                                        Lincoln
                                     18—Bell 17 Jeff Davis 1 Yancey 1 
                                        Houston
                                     4! Some person sent me a 
                                        Boston
                                     Campaign 
                              
                                 26 Austin H. Brown was the son of William J. Brown
                                            ("Done" 
                                                Brown
                                            ). The elder 
                                                Brown
                                             was owner and editor of the Indiana State
                                            Sentinel for several years. Later the son became the owner, while the
                                            father was the editor. The paper was sold by Austin H. Brown in 1855.
                              
                                 27 Joseph G. Wright, Democratic Governor of Indiana,
                                            1849-1857. Appointed 
                                                United States
                                             Senator by Governor Morton in 1862.
                              
                                 28 Horatio Seymour, Democratic leader of 
                                                New York
                                            . Elected Governor in 1862. Candidate for the presidency against
                                            Grant in 1868.
                              
                                 29 General 
                                                Franklin
                                             Pierce of 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            , President, 1853-1857.
                           
                                     Post It is opposed to Judge Douglas! There is
                                    some mean Papers and Politicians in the north against him look out for Gen. 
                                        Butler
                                    
                           30 of Mass. and Gen. Cushing!31
                                    They are servile slaves of the Administration and the South. This 
                                        Butler
                                    , Bigler, Bright faction will do anything to prevent Douglas from being
                                    the candidate. Any other man will suit them—But the Democracy largely
                                    want Douglass and we hope 
                                        Montgomery
                                    ,32 Richardson33 and yourself,
                                    and others, will meet them at every point and defeat them. Buchanan would be
                                    miserably beaten and so would Hunter,34 Guthrie35 or any other endorser of his 
                                        Kansas
                                     policy! We hope for a glorious nomination of Douglas! Also a number of
                                    them in Vigo. One of the American Assessors in Vigo Co., says he is for Douglas and
                                    if he is not nominated he will support Bell. I know enough of southern Indiana to
                                    know that Douglas can beat L[incoln] badly south of the National Road. We hope you
                                    and Judge Douglas friends will be wide awake, and not let Bright & Co. set
                                    traps that will injure Douglas Do any thing fair and honorable to conciliate the
                                    South. If the seceders return and new delegates come vote in the new
                                    ones—the only reason the batling delegate come back is to slay
                                    Douglas—It is a bitter personal hate without reason or principle. We hope
                                    they will not succeed. Let us have the great Democratic Leader, the defender of
                                    Jackson and such a tumult will be got up all over the land, that has not been
                                    excelled since Harrison campaign. Send along the documents. Write as soon as you get
                                    this.
                        
                                    In haste
                                    JAMES M. LUCAS
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  30 Benjamine F. Butler, Democratic leader of 
                            Massachusetts
                         before the Civil War. A supporter of John C. Breckinridge in 1860.
               
                  31 Caleb Cushing, Democratic leader of 
                            Massachusetts
                        . He was opposed to Douglas. Acted as chairman of the 
                            Charleston
                         Convention of 1860.
               
                  32 Probably William Montgomery, Democratic Representative from 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1857-1861.
               
                  33 William A. Richardson, of 
                            Illinois
                        , a stalwart champion of Douglas. Member of the national House, 1847-1857. Governor
                        of 
                            Nebraska
                         Territory, 1856-1858. Succeeded Douglas in the Senate in 1861.
               
                  34 R. M. T. Hunter of 
                     Virginia, United States
                   Senator,
                        1847-1861.
               
                  35 Probably James Guthrie of 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  .
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        , 1809-1858. By ALBERT J. BEVERIDGE. 
                        Boston
                    , Houghton Mifflin Company, 1928. Two volumes, XXVIII 607, VII 741 pp. Illustrated,
                    $12.50.
            When the late Senator Beveridge began his work as a historian, his notable experience as public man,
                    his splendid powers of expression, and his willingness to search long and patiently were valuable
                    assets. During his period as a writer of history, he added the passion to deal impartially with men
                    and events. When preparing his life of Marshall, he was unwearied in his labors to find and study
                    the sources for himself. He employed his rare literary skill in the production of the four
                    fascinating volumes dealing with the life and times of the great jurist, but he had not then
                    attained that spirit of detachment so essential to the very best results. The volumes under review
                    reveal a splendid success in dealing fairly with the contemporaries of 
                        Lincoln
                    . Readers familiar with volumes on the great War President will hardly recognize James
                    Shields, Roger B. Taney, James Buchanan and Stephen A. Douglas as portrayed by the impartial pen of
                    Senator Beveridge.
            In every instance, 
                        Lincoln
                     is set forth as a leader slowly evolving his gifts, his powers, and his convictions in
                    regard to public questions. His rivals are not pictured as the villains of the drama—mere
                    demagogues and weaklings used to show up the virtues of the hero. There is a recognition of the fact
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                     required time for development; that he could and did make mistakes; that men who
                    disagreed with him could be, and often were, right. It is especially true that the greatness of
                    Douglas stands out. In every chapter after the two leaders came into contact, there is evidence of
                    the strength of the man who was 
                        Lincoln
                    's great political rival.
            The biography, which ends abruptly at the close of the debates 
                    of 1858, just where the gifted author received his summons, is a fresh and appealing narrative.
                    Senator Beveridge sought aid from a number of persons. He asked and received much counsel, which he
                    readily and generously considered, but he went directly to the sources and made his own
                    interpretations. No previous author has written adequately of 
                        Lincoln
                    's career in the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislature, nor with his two years in the National House of Representatives. These two
                    phases of his life are here treated fully and truthfully.
            In regard to the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Douglas Debates, which are covered in the last chapter of the second volume, there is a
                    wide departure from the accounts in standard works. The author is not the first to challenge the
                    tradition regarding the purpose of the third question which 
                        Lincoln
                     propounded to Douglas at 
                        Freeport
                    , as well as, other traditional views concerning the debates. It is to his credit,
                    however, that, without the slightest wavering, he ignores long established views and analyzes the
                    situation from beginning to end simply and sanely.
            When dealing briefly with the 
                        South Carolina
                     "Ordinance of Nullification" of 1832, the author refers to it once
                    (p. 129) as "
                        South Carolina
                    's Ordinance of Secession". He writes also that newspapers read by 
                        Lincoln
                     "had printed news of the secession movement before the convention
                    met." This is unfortunate. The terms "nullification" and
                    "secession" should not be used as if interchangeable. There was no secession
                    movement in 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1832-1833. This is a matter in regard to which public men are especially prone to
                    hold erroneous notions.
            The writer of this review hopes that this new life of 
                        Lincoln
                     to 1858 will be widely read. He especially commends it to all who have not understood
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                     became a great man only through a long and slow process of development. He hopes and
                    expects that this biography will go far toward exploding standardized but false notions about the
                    passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act and the rivalry between 
                        Lincoln
                     and Douglas. He believes with the late Senator Beveridge that Lincoln did not demolish
                    the arguments of Douglas but rather that he eventually accepted as his own the fundamental principle
                    of Douglas—that the primary object was the saving of the Union. The truth about the great
                    rivals is not that they were poles apart but that their paths converged from 1854 to 1861.
            
            Undoubtedly there will be admirers of 
                        Lincoln
                     who will be disappointed in the new work by Senator Beveridge, at first. All lovers of
                    truth and fair play, however, will be later, if not at once, struck with the rare impartiality of
                    the volumes. It required unusual independence, an uncommon passion to set forth the unbiased facts,
                    and real courage, to write the story as presented. It is a great work, though but half completed,
                    and it will live.
            WILLAM O. LYNCH
            
         
         
            
               The Northern Boundary of Indiana. By Mrs. FRANK J. SHEEHAN. Indiana Historical
                    Society Publications. Volume VIII, Number 6, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1928. Pp. 32.
            "A Labor of Love" would be a well deserved description of the brochure entitled The Northern Boundary of Indiana recently made available by the interesting pen of
                    Mrs. Frank J. Sheehan.
            Even though she gives credit for the painstaking, diligent searches and friendly cooperation, it was
                    her sense of "news value", her appreciation of the dramatic and challenging, that
                    gave direction to these searches and later, out of their fruits, made possible this interesting
                    review of the events that moved so quickly and with such startling potentiality upon the stage of
                    early Indiana history.
            Perhaps the fact that she almost as much, if not more than any other individual, by her enthusiasm
                    and indomitable courage, marshalled friends and resources which finally resulted in that generous
                    investment by the public and the state of Indiana, now known as the Dunes State Park of Indiana,
                    gives her an unique background out of which to know these values and to portray the figures that
                    hurry with such long range influences across that early State.
            "54'40 or Fight" while nationally of tremendous potentiality was not more
                    so than this ten mile strip of Indiana, as we discover easily in the pages so carefully limned for
                    our review of the changing scenes.
            The interplay of adventure, of greed, of stragetic moves for personal advantage or political
                    prestige, are brought out in bold relief as the author's intimate knowledge of our state,
                    her institutions, her people and her industries, the work, the 
                    schools and the play of the people enable the striking scenes of the narrative to be presented with
                    bold strokes.
            An appreciation of the importance of original sources, of the proper relation of contemporaneous
                    events and characters with sources indicated, the citing of authorities and the arrangement of these
                    in orderly fashion, all serve to give the "feel" of skill and an air of inherent
                    capacity that add to our appreciation of this delightful contribution.
            C. OLIVER HOLMES.
         
         
            
               One Hundred Years Ago. By H. W. CHADWICK. The 
                            Brownstown
                         Banner, 
                  Brownstown, Indiana
               , 1928. Pp. 45.
            This pamphlet narrates some of the experiences of the pioneers of Southern Indiana with Indians in
                    the period from 1810 to 1815. It is a reprint of a series of letters written for The 
                            Brownstown
                         Banner in 1877. The writer of the letters obtained most of his material from
                    David Sturgeon who participated in the events and scenes of the years before and during the War of
                    1812 and described them to Mr. Chadwick.
            When a young man Mr. Sturgeon made flat-boat trips to 
                        New Orleans
                    . This was prior to the War of 1812. It was on one of these trips that he had his first
                    encounter with hostile Indians, in which he narrowly escaped death. A short time afterward, he
                    joined a company of rangers, recruited to patrol the district in which he lived. As a member of this
                    organization, he had many hazardous contacts with red men, and saw much destruction of property and
                    considerable loss of life.
            In the latter part of the story, the writer takes up various phases of life during and after the War
                    of 1812. He gives an account of the wedding of David Sturgeon and Nancy Hutchinson and describes a
                    log-rolling along with other incidents of the pioneer life of the time. He discusses the beginnings
                    of civilization in 
                        Jackson County
                     where he lived. The booklet is interesting. It reveals the strong conviction of the
                    early settlers that the Indians should be exterminated. The accounts of fights and massacres are
                    particularly vivid. The descriptions of customs and habits are valuable to students of the history
                    of the frontier period. The chronological sequence of events cannot be depended upon. Some of the
                    statements in this connection are clearly inaccurate.
            HENRY L. MCHARGUE.
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            With the present number, the Indiana Magazine of History passes into the hands of a
                    new Editor, who fully understands that he assumes a task which has been well performed for many
                    years by Dr. Logan Esarey. The present Editor undertakes his new responsibility in a proper spirit
                    of humility. He indulges a hope that the standard of the Magazine may not be lowered. If he shall
                    succeed in maintaining the level of the past, it must be through the cooperation and generous aid of
                    all who are interested in the study of the sources of Indiana history, and in the writing of papers
                    in that field.
            The work of an editor is neither a simple nor an easy task. He must read critically such papers as
                    are submitted for publication, in order to discover as far as possible errors of fact, of
                    composition, and of form. He must assume the responsibility of deciding whether the quality of
                    articles submitted is such as to justify publication. He must reject papers that are not up to a
                    fair level of merit, or that are not adapted to the purpose of the Magazine. He should, at times,
                    advise those willing to prepare articles, and point out to them ways in which their work may be
                    improved. He must somehow discover unpublished documents of value, and persons who have the capacity
                    to write. At the best, he may, occasionally, find his barrel as barren of matter suitable for
                    publication, as Mother Hubbard found her cupboard of bones for her dog. The Magazine will be due,
                    nevertheless, in March, June, September and December of each year.
            
            The following from the "Introduction" of the ably edited first volume of the John Askin Papers (see review in this Magazine for June, 1928), is from the pen of
                    Dr. M. M. Quaife, and it should prove suggestive to those who may prepare documents for publication
                    and to those who may quote from sources when preparing historical papers: 
                        To some extent every piece of historical editing presents problems peculiar to itself, to
                            whose solution the editor devotes whatever measure of scholarly skill and judgment he may
                            command. A statement of certain problems encountered in the editing of the Askin Papers, together with the solution hit upon, may prove advantageous to the
                            reader who shall have occasion to consult the volumes. In general the printed document aims
                            to present a scrupulously accurate copy of the original manuscript. But since it is
                            impossible to represent in print numerous idiosyncracies of longhand manuscripts, the Editor
                            has steadily endevored to reproduce the evident intent of the writer, but to escape a
                            slavish adherence to mere pedanticism. In the matter of punctuation, for example, it becomes
                            frequently a matter for editorial interpretation whether a given mark of the penman shall be
                            printed as a comma or as a period. Such interpretation we have not hesitated to supply. Of
                            similar import, the penman of a century ago often distributed dashes in liberal measure
                            across his page in a fashion which finds no precise equivalent in modern typography. We have
                            made no prtense of reproducing these except in cases where their representation has some
                            discoverable significance; and where the penman's dash has seemed to signify the
                            equivalent of the comma or period as employed in modern printing, we have reproduced it as
                            such. So to with words underscored in the manuscripts. The equivalent in print of this usage
                            is the employment of italics, and all publishing houses have established rules governing the
                            resort to such usage. But the underscoring of the penman, like his employment of dashes,
                            commonly prossesses no discoverable significance, and when such significance has seemed
                            lacking we have not transferred the underscoring into print.
                    
            
            Documents that are printed and passages that are quoted from the sources often refer to individuals
                    about whom most readers can not be expected to have a knowledge. Doctor Quaife believes in a policy
                    of footnote annotation that furnishes biographical information concerning the personages who figure
                    in the documents. In regard to this practice, he writes: 
                        Probably few readers will ever realize how greatly this conception of the editorial task has
                            served to increase its arduousness. A footnote that may be read in the fraction of a minute
                            may have cost (and frequently has) many hours of toil to prepare. Frequently too, with the
                            acquirement of additional pertinent information, it has been resived again and again before
                            reaching the form it finally assumes in print.
                    
            
            
            The Indiana Magazine of History has had a loyal group of supporters in the past.
                    Many of these have contributed to its columns a number of times, and may be counted on for articles
                    in the future. Undobutedly, there are many others who have ability to prepare historical papers, who
                    have as yet submitted nothing. Some of these possible contributors have lived through important
                    experiences, witnessed important events, or have access to valuable documents. It is hoped that such
                    persons will acquire an interest in the work of the Magazine, and that they will become contributors
                    of reminiscences, articles based on research, or documents, in order that the history of Indiana may
                    be enriched and preserved.
            The doctoral dissertation of Miss Floy Ruth Painter, associate professor of history at the Ball
                    Teachers College, will be published by Indiana University as one of the series of Historical Studies. The subject of the thesis is Eugene V. Debs.
            
            Prof. Glen A. Blackburn of Indiana Central College is preparing the Papers of John
                        Tipton for publication by the Indiana Historical Society. A biographical sketch of 
                        Tipton
                     will accompany the documents.
            Wendell Holmes Stephenson, associate professor of history at the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, has completed a study of the Political Career of General
                        James H. Lane, of Indiana and 
                        Kansas
                    , which will be published by the State Historical Society of 
                        Kansas
                     in the near future.
            The Trustees of the Public Library at 
                  Oxford,
                            Indiana
               , are planning to publish a volume of
                    stories and sketches of pioneer life pertaining to 
                        Oxford
                     and vicinity which were written by the late Jesse Birch. The material for the volume
                    was collected by Mr. Birch during his long period as editor of the 
                  
                            Oxford
                         Tribune.
            
            The American Historical Association will meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 28-31 of this year. The Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association will meet in the spring of 1929 at 
                        Vincennes
                    . These two meetings will bring to persons of Indiana  who are vitally interested in historical scholarship a fine opportunity to attend the sessions.
                    The State is highly honored in the opportunity to entertain both of these associations within the
                    space of a few months. Membership in either Association is open to any individual who may be
                    recommended by one who is already a member. The fee in each association is five dollars a year. The
                    membership from Indiana in both of these Associations should show a decided increase during the next
                    half-year.
         
         
            Correction
            Mrs. A. V. Danner, author of the paper, "Mary Wright, Pioneer Musician of 
                        Switzerland County
                    ," which was published in the March, 1928, number of this magazine, has sent in
                    the following correction: 
                        The footnote on p. 29 of Volume XXIV (March, 1928) locates incorrectly the parcels of land
                            described. In the first line, "Pleasant tp." should read "Craig
                            tp." In the second line, "Jefferson co." should be followed by
                            "Craig tp." All the land described is located in 
                                Jefferson county
                            , Craig township, according to present boundaries.
                    
            
         
         
            Wanted
            Dr. R. Carlyle Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazine of History, desires
                    to obtain several copies of certain numbers of the Magazine. Any subscriber who
                    will mail or express to him copies of the following numbers will receive promptly the prices
                    indicated: The double-number for June-September, 1925, each copy, $1.00. The number for
                    March, 1926, each copy, 50 cents.
         
      
      
         
      
   
