
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 15, Issue 2, pages 89-200. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:15+issue:2+year:1919&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Coming of the English to Indiana in 1817 and Their Hoosier Neighbors
            JOHN E. IGLEHART, 
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.
            INTRODUCTION
            
            (Copyright 1919, by John E. Iglehart)
            In 1916, at the request of the mayor of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    , the writer undertook the organization and direction of the work of
                    a Historical Commission of the 
                        Evansville
                     Centennial for 1917. With a view to qualify himself better for the
                    work he sought the literature of the early western travelers, as well as other
                    writers, and began a search in the early records of the city and county of 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , as well as of 
                        Warrick
                     and 
                        Knox
                     counties, out of which 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     had been created.
            The travels of William Faux in the west in the fall and winter of 1819 resulted
                    from his intimacy with the Ingle family in 
                  Somersham, Huntingdonshire,
                            England
               , where both families
                    lived, and a promise made by Faux to Rev. John Ingle, a Baptist minister, that
                    the former would visit the son of the latter at Saundersville in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    . The diary of Faux during five weeks he spent in John
                    Ingle's cabin is the only record in existence of the first British
                    settlement in Indiana. While local histories have recorded the  lives of many mmebers of that settlement and their
                    descendants, including many of the leading men of the community, and in
                    southwestern Indiana for one hundred years, no mention is made in any of them of
                    the colony as Faux describes it.
            When the war came on in 1917 the Historical Commission ceased its labors. The
                    writer, as a descendant of John Ingle of 
                        Somersham
                     and as a representative of three pioneer families of that
                    settlement, felt a call to restore the fading picture, and to trace the work and
                    lives of the emigrants and their descendants as town builders and commonwealth
                    builders, which seemed to him worthy to be recorded.
            The chief qualifications of the writer for the work lay in the fact that he had
                    personally known some of the original emigrants of the first generation and many
                    of their children, who had been born in 
                        England
                    , among whom was his mother. He had more or less a knowledge of the
                    history of the leaders of the settlement, as well as a large number of the one
                    hundred or more families who came into the settlement in the first decade. In a
                    law practice of about fifty years in 
                        Evansville
                    , where he has lived a still longer time, he was in a manner
                    familiar with the early history of the people of the city and county. So that in
                    handling the records and files of the city and county from the beginning as late
                    as 1830, the writer was able, so to speak, to become acquainted with the people
                    of the town and county, their character and their work in the first decade, and
                    to interpret many of the old records more fully than could have been done by a
                    stranger. In tracing the history of the beginnings of the early British
                    settlement, the personal knowledge of Mr. Edward Maidlow, still living in
                    excellent health, and James Erskine, recently deceased, who were born in it in
                    1831, were of great assistance, as has been Mrs. Samuel G. Evans, a
                    granddaughter of Sauriders Hornbrook, Sr., who has permitted the writer to
                    examine the family correspondence of the early time.
            As will appear in this sketch, the movement represented in the Indiana colony was
                    part of a greater one and a clear presentation of the whole was necessary to a
                    history of the part. No attempt has been made to repeat the history of the
                    Birkbeck-Flower movement, so fully presented in the writings  of those two men. The correctness of Prof. Edwin
                    Erle Sparks' statement as to the final outcome of the 
                        Illinois
                     colony, was challenged by Mr. Walter Colyer, and the writer was
                    glad to avail himself of the opportunity to invite Mr. Colyer to state the facts
                    upon the other side of the matter, which are presented by him probably as well
                    and as fully as can be done, and they will probably be the last word on that
                    subject.
            The final success of each of these colonies is not to be sought at this time, in
                    outward evidence of distinguishing British life, manners, or customs in any
                    form, as Professor Sparks seems to imply. The emigrants, though of English,
                    Irish and Scotch birth, became immediately American and their descendants are as
                    distinctly such today in every respect, as any portion of the American people.
            The Hoosier neighbors of the colonists in southern Indiana are traced with some
                    care, both the native leaders and the body of the people with whom they lived as
                    citizens and neighbors. Morris Birkbeck's descriptions in his Notes and Letters will always remain a valuable contribution
                    to the history of the time. His description of the people of 
                        Princeton
                    , quoted in the Edinburgh Review, is truthful, as
                    the writer has every reason to believe, and he has practiced law in 
                        Princeton
                     and on the circuit for almost fifty years and has a fair general
                    knowledge of the people of 
                        Gibson county
                    . While the influence of the early English and other foreigners and
                    the native eastern people has been felt in southern Indiana, there is no doubt
                    that the great body of the people of the southern portion of the State are of
                    southern descent.
            In dealing with the status of those people in the early history of the State, any
                    fair critic must realize that altogether undue emphasis has to this time been
                    placed in public opinion east of Indiana upon descriptions by early writers, who
                    have not fairly interpreted the people, but who have taken the bottom layer to
                    represent the whole people, or have been, correctly or not, so interpreted. In
                    presenting Birkbeck's picture of these people, as a fair type of the
                    plain people, who were much similar to the body of the people in all of the
                    counties of southern Indiana, the writer may seem to have dealt with the subject
                    as an advocate and a partisan. He  has
                    eliminated as irrelevant to a truthful picture of the better class of Hoosiers,
                        The Hoosier School Master entire, and much of the New Purchase, and has presented his facts and reasons.
            Both the chapter on the Men of the Western Waters by Roosevelt and the new and
                    splendid interpretation of frontier life in the Old North West by Frederick G,
                    Turner, relate to the people, the location and the time of which we are writing
                    and are germane to the description of the Hoosier neighbors of the British
                    colonists, who included the family of Abraham Lincoln.
            The references to Abraham Lincoln are intended chiefly to call attention to him
                    as a Hoosier neighbor of the British colony during its first decade and longer,
                    and the influence Upon his character of a life among the pioneer farmers of
                    southwestern Indiana, and to point out avenues of opportunity and information
                    which existed within his reach, during his residence in Indiana, up to the time
                    he was twenty-one years of age and which furnish facts relevant in the history
                    of the main theme. That he had more opportunities and read more books than his
                    historians are able to trace is conceded by them.
            The writer had prepared biographical data, with illustrations, of a number of the
                    original settlers and their descendants, among the latter a number of the
                    representative men and women in this section of the State, as well as elsewhere,
                    as a most complete verification of his statements, but the limitations of a
                    magazine article properly exclude them.
            THE FIRST ENGLISH SETTLERS
            
            In the summer of 1817, Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., of Tavistock, 
                  Devonshire, England
               , perfected arrangements for his son, Saunders
                    Hornbrook, Jr., to come to America with his two sisters, and furnished him money
                    to purchase land, build temporary improvements and prepare accommodations for
                    the rest of the family, in the wilderness of the far west. He intended to follow
                    when the accommodations were ready. His wife, a woman of unusual ability, was to
                    remain behind a  couple of years with the two
                    smaller children and settle up the business. The senior Hornbrook operated large
                    manufactories (for the time), woolen mills and an iron foundry. He was an
                    educated man, as were his ancestors for several generations before him, and came
                    of good stock.
            The first week in October, 1817, the junior Hornbrook, with his sisters, arrived
                    at Pigeon creek, "a place merely for loading and discharging vessels
                    for the western part of Indiana State." 
                        Evansville
                    , located half a mile above the mouth of Pigeon creek, then
                    consisted of thirteen log houses. A road ran out to the river through the bluff
                    bank at a point now the foot of Main street. He proceeded without delay to 
                        Princeton
                    , twenty-seven miles due north, where Birkbeck and Flower had
                    established temporary quarters, while arrangements for the accommodations of the 
                        Prairie
                     settlement across the Wabash river were in
                    progress. Both Flower and Birkbeck were well known in 
                        England
                    , and Hornbrook, Sr., had planned to join their settlement and
                    purchase about 1,000 acres of land on which to settle with his family. Their
                    scheme of land speculation, however, limited the amount of the purchase of one
                    farmer to one-half section of land, 320 acres, required the purchaser to take it
                    where it was assigned him, and the nearest to the proposed village centre where
                    Horn-brook could buy was about twenty miles distant. He was required to pay a
                    price per acre greater than that for which equally good or better land, much
                    nearer in the government domain, could be bought.
            These terms young Hornbrook indignantly refused. He returned to 
                        Princeton
                    , "and after fourteen days constant fag, sometimes one and
                    sometimes two meals a day, sleeping in a barn or cabin at night, he fixed on a
                    spot of one and one-half sections," nine hundred and sixty acres, about
                    ten miles from the Ohio river, and seventeen miles from 
                        Princeton
                    , which he immediately entered at the land office at 
                        Vincennes
                    .1
            
            Hornbrook came by the Red Banks trail from 
                        Princeton
                    , and located just east of it. This trail was one of the earliest
                    routes located by the Indians and extended from the river 
                  
                     1 Private letter of Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., dated
                            Jan. 7, 1818, at Tavistock.
               
                     north to 
                  Princeton, Vincennes
                and 
                        Terre Haute
                     and beyond to the Indian villages at a very early day.2 The survey of this line by Jacob Fowler in 1806 shows it
                    terminates at the Ohio river about five miles below the
                    mouth of Pigeon creek in section 3, town 7, S. R. 11 W. about seven miles north
                    of Henderson (Red Banks). Here local history says the channel was very narrow on
                    account of sand bars on both sides of the river and in low water was crossed by
                    whites and Indians without boats.3 (Wilson's map
                    places the ford at Red Banks about seven miles lower down the river.) This
                    testimony is corroborated, by descriptions in deeds, referring to this trail,
                    which are not found south of this ford.4
                    
                        "
                                Evansville
                             right side. Above the mouth of Pigeon creek. This is a very
                            thriving town, situated in the bend of the river, fifty-four miles south
                            of 
                                Vincennes
                            . It is the seat of justice for 
                                Vanderburgh county
                            , Indiana; channel nearest right shore, round a high bar at
                            the left hand point, opposite Pigeon creek. Two miles below Pigeon creek
                            there is a hard bar on the right; channel near the left shore, and when
                            you approach the left hand point below, keep over in the bend on the
                            right, to avoid a large bar on the left, round the point; when past the
                            latter, keep well over to the left again, to avoid the large bar on the
                            right."
                    
            
            This location by Hornbrook was in October or November, 1817. When the senior
                    Hornbrook came over in the following summer, 1818, he met Edward Maidlow, with
                    his family, at Wheeling, bound for the 
                        Prairie
                     settlement. They bought and fitted up an ark and came by water to 
                        Evansville
                     together, and Maidlow located adjoining Hornbrook, entering about
                    the same quantity of land as Hornbrook.
            In April, the same year, George Flower, on his second trip to America, sailed
                    from 
                        England
                     in the ship Anna Maria, chartered by him, with a band of emigrants
                    for his colony, with the deck of the ship covered with a selection of fine
                    stock, preceded by a ship similarly loaded.5 Among the
                    passengers who came with them, named by Flower in his history of the settlement,
                    was John Ingle, his wife, five young children 
                  
                     2 George R. Wilson, Early Indian
                                Trails and Surveys, Map 394, 360, 361.
                  
                     3 Sebastian Henrich, the veteran Abstractor,
                            procured this testimony a generation ago from reliable sources.
                  
                     4 The following extract from The
                                Western Pilot, by Samuel Cummings, published in 1825, which
                            furnishes also in 20 maps the course of the Ohio
                            river from 
                                Pittsburgh
                             to the Mississippi river, shows the
                            sand bars mentioned at the terminus of the Red Banks trail as located in
                            Fowler's survey:
                  
                     5 George Flowers, History of the
                                English Settlement in 
                                    Edwards County
                                , III. 100.
               
                     and maid, who came to 
                        Princeton
                     and remained a short time with Ingle's friend, Judge
                    William Prince, after whom 
                        Princeton
                    , then four years old, was named. There can be no doubt that it was
                    the arrival of George Flower's ship, which sailed in April, 1818, thus
                        mentioned:6
                    
                        A 
                                New York
                             paper says: We learn that a gentleman has lately arrived in
                            this city from 
                                England
                             whose object is to settle in the 
                                Illinois
                             territory—that his family and settlers, brought
                            over with him, amount to fifty-one persons—that he has
                            furnished himself with agricultural implements, seeds of various kinds,
                            some cows, sheep and pigs for breeding, and about 100,000 pounds
                            sterling in money.
                        This is doing business to a great national as well as Individual profit;
                            and if gentlemen of fortune and enterprise will emigrate in the same
                            manner, our Western States will shortly be the most flourishing part of
                            the world.
                    
            
            The amount of cash in the party was probably over-stated, although there were a
                    number of well-to-do individuals in the party.
            After a survey of the situation, Ingle, instead of going as he had intended to
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement, bought a section of land near Hornbrook, about the time
                    that Maidlow purchased. Hornbrook and Maidlow were men of middle age with good
                    sized families of grown children, a number of whom later intermarried. Maidlow
                    was "a most intelligent and respectable Hampshire farmer, who brought
                    considerable capital and English habits and feelings the best in the
                        world."7 He preferred to remain a farmer and
                    hold his land for its increase. Ingle outlived Hornbrook and Maidlow. He was for
                    many years an active leader in public matters and, like Hornbrook and Maidlow,
                    remained on his farm all his life. All of them were strong men and natural
                    leaders, who became and remained during their lives the center of a large circle
                    in the Saundersville community, exercising wide and permanent influence.
            The McJohnstons and Hillyards, Irish, who came in 1818, and the Wheelers,
                    English, and the Erskines, Scotch-Irish emigrants, who came in 1819, all located
                    a few miles east of Saundersville. They were people of the same type, all men
                        
                  
                     6
                            Niles' Weekly Register, June 6, 1818, XIV,
                            256.
                  
                     7 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 234.
               
                     of high purposes and character. With, or
                    following soon after all of these men, came followers, relatives or friends.
                    This was the beginning of the British settlement in Indiana which, in November,
                    1819, Faux describes as containing fifty-three families in possession of 12,800
                    acres of land entered, having capital to the amount of eighty thousand
                        dollars.8 Within two years after that date there were in
                    the settlement over one hundred families, represening probably from five hundred
                    to seven hundred and fifty people.
            The panic then existing in America, perhaps with improved conditions of the
                    people in 
                        England
                    , possibly bettered as the effect of wholesale expatriation in this
                    general movement, checked the rapid growth of the Indiana colony for some years.
                    But emigration never wholly ceased. Later in the forties and early fifties
                    renewed emigration in large numbers set in from Great Britain. These later
                    emigrants were attracted largely by relatives, friends or acquaintances of the
                    British settlers and their descendants, who by that time were among the foremost
                    leaders and town builders in the rapidly growing town of 
                        Evansville
                    . That town was platted in 1817, was chartered a year later, and was
                    now located near the southern boundary of the settlement, which had extended
                    toward 
                        Evansville
                    .
            To the writer it seemed a matter of more than local interest to trace the
                    influence of these pioneers and their associates of the first decade of the
                    settlement, to trace their struggles with adverse elements peculiar to the
                    locality, in their stand for law, order, morality and high Christian
                    civilization in southwestern Indiana, at the beginning of society itself, and
                    when the influences of organized government were first authoritatively felt
                    here.
            The relation of the settlement to the new town of 
                        Evansville
                     was most intimate. A few miles distance between them in that day
                    was counted slight obstacle to such intimacy. They grew from beginnings at the
                    same time and were soon 
                  
                     8 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 240. Aaron Woods, Sketches, 13,
                            mentions English settlements in 
                                Dearborn
                             and 
                                Franklin
                             counties as well as in 
                                Vanderburgh county
                            . We find a short reference to the settlement in 
                                Dearborn county
                            , Archibald Shaw, Hist, of 
                                    Dearborn
                                
                     , 212–214, but no reference to the one
                            in 
                                Franklin county
                            .
               
                     almost united by the Mechanicsville (or
                    Stringtown) ridge, which was from the beginning settled by the better class of
                    pioneers and on which were scattered early a few of the British colony. The
                    British settlement became an integral part of the foundation, growth and
                    expansion of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    , which was destined to become a large city, in which members of the
                    settlement had an opportunity not offered to the other purely agricultural
                    British settlements of the time.
            Some of the descendants of these British pioneers, including some of the younger
                    generation born in 
                        England
                    , such as John Ingle, Jr., and Philip Hornbrook, were among the
                    leading citizens of 
                        Evansville
                     in its early growth and formative period. The influence generally
                    of the whole settlement on the agricultural community, its intelligence,
                    morality and society was also marked. More than any other single element, the
                    influence from the source mentioned aided in the establishment of high standards
                    of social and political life and institutions.
            Before the days of railroads and the telegraph, representatives of the British
                    settlement were leaders in the town of 
                        Evansville
                    . They were leaders in the building of the first canal, the first
                    railroad and the first telegraph line in southwestern Indiana, and in the
                    promoting of the first coal mine, and river craft attachment to furnish fuel to
                    steamboats on the river and the people of 
                        Evansville
                     at its wharf. They were leaders, in the beginning, of the
                    educational institutions of the city of 
                        Evansville
                     at the time of the creation of the public school system of Indiana.
                    They were leaders in the organization and support of the first agricultural
                    society in the county10, and the early agricultural reports
                    of the State contain the names of one of the younger leaders in the settlement
                    as among the first contributors to the literature of scientific agriculture.11 In pioneer work in the religious institutions 
                  
                     10 Philip Hornbrook was secretary of the first
                            agricultural society in Vander-burgh county and so continued during his
                            life. When he died the society abandoned its meetings,
                  
                     11 Interesting articles on scientific agriculture
                            by Andrew Erskine, Indiana Agricultural Reports, 1856,
                            387, 392; 1859, 60, 119.
               
                     of the entire county they were first, as the
                    records show.
            From 1819, when the Wheeler brothers and Robert Parrett came into the settlement,
                    and for twelve or fifteen years afterwards, while the community was too poor to
                    build a church or support a preacher, the town of 
                        Evansville
                     itself, as well as the rural districts, relied almost entirely upon
                    them—excepting an occasional visit of a Presbyterian missionary, or
                    the Methodist circuit rider—for an educated ministry.
            The names of Hornbrook, Ingle, Maidlow, Parrett, Hillyard, Wheeler, Erskine and
                    others were early well known in 
                  Vincennes, New
                    Harmony
               , Albion, 
                  Princeton, Evansville
               , and surrounding country, and for one
                    hundred years, through several generations, those names have stood for truth,
                    honesty, and justice in dealing with others. The large representation of those
                    families among the prominent citizens of 
                        Evansville
                    , as well as some well known in wider fields, is due in no small
                    degree to this fact. Among the latter, now living, will appear names known
                    throughout the country in literature and great moral reform and when the 
                        United States
                    , in November, 1918, assumed government control of all telegraph as
                    well as telephone lines in the country, a grandson of Robert Parrett, Union
                    Bethell, was placed in charge of them all.
            Before entering more fully into these details, it will be appropriate to give an
                    outline of the wider movement recognized at the time by leading authority in
                    Great Britain and America, as of world-wide importance, and of which the Indiana
                    colony was a part.
            Usually the significance of local history is that it is part of a greater whole.
                    The right and vital sort of local history is the sort which may be written with
                    lifted eyes—the sort which has a horizon and an outlook upon the
                        world.12
            
            ENGLISH EMIGRATION
                    TO AMERICA AFTER 1815
            The four British colonies in America were parts of a single movement, resulting
                    from the same causes. Professor Sparks, in an excellent short summary of the
                    movement, says: 
                  
                     12 Woodrow Wilson, The Course of
                                American History, 216.
               
                    
                    
                        English colonies were planted in eastern 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , along the Susquehana river; in Long
                            Island, 
                                New York
                            ; in the southern portion of the State of Indiana, and in
                            southeastern 
                                Illinois
                            . ∗ ∗ ∗ The movement
                            developed at the time of the reconstruction period of European history,
                            when the nations were attempting to resume their normal economic
                            relations, after twenty years of almost continuous war. ∗
                            ∗ ∗ The people blamed all their miseries upon the
                                government.13
                  
                    
            
            William Cobbet, in his dedication to Thomas Hulme's Journal of a tour of the far west in 1818, ascribes the activity of the
                    latter to his zeal against the twin monsters, tyranny and priestcraft, and a
                    desire to assist in providing a retreat for the oppressed. He speaks of the
                    great numbers of immigrants flocking to the western countries, the newest of the
                    New World, toward which the writings of Morris Birkbeck had called their pointed
                    attention. Especially, were so attracted those Englishmen, "who having
                    something left to be robbed of, and wishing to preserve it, were looking towards
                    America as a place of refuge from the boroughmongers and the Holy
                        Alliance."14
            
            Hulme says he saw that the incomes of his children were all pawned to pay the
                    debts of the borough or seat owners. That of whatever he might be able to give
                    his children, which was a very substantial sum, as well as of what they might be
                    able to earn, more than one-half would be taken away to feed pensioned lords and
                    ladies, "soldiers to shoot at us, parsons to persecute us, and
                    fundholders, who had lent their money to be applied to purposes of enslaving
                        us.15
            
            Richard Flower said in his letter of August 20, 1821, that the grand reason for
                    emigration was to escape that overwhelming system of taxation, which had
                    diminished the property of the emigrants, and threatened, if they staid much
                    longer, to swallow up the whole. He adds:
                  
                     
                        How many of my brother farmers have lost their all? How many have
                                    been added to the list of paupers, since we left our beloved
                                    country, newspapers and private letters, agricultural meetings
                                    and parliamentary proceedings reports sufficiently declare.16
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  13 Erle Sparks, English Settlement in the 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , introduction.
               
                  14 Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                        X 19–21.
               
                  15 Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                        X 23.
               
                  16
                        Id. 146.
            
            
            Rev. John Ingle, of 
                        Somersham
                    , so often mentioned by Faux in his Travels, thus
                    writes to his son, John Ingle, of Saundersville, eighteen months after the
                    emigration of the latter to the Indiana colony:
                  
                     
                        I most sincerely congratulate you on your choice and successful
                                    removing from your native country; you have privations, you have
                                    calculated upon, and from your accounts, fewer than you
                                    expected. Had you stopped here, you would have lived somehow,
                                    but you could not have continued in the society you have been,
                                    used to. Here the smaller stations of property appear gradually
                                    wearing to pauperism and the prospect before us is unpromising
                                    indeed; agriculture dark, commercial and manufacturing stations
                                    no less so. Prices are low, markets are falling, corn traders
                                    stopping, laborers out of employ, and money so scarce as in a
                                    great measure, what can be omitted, possibly, is omitted. Poor
                                    rates are enormous and appearances seem to tell us they will
                                    still increase.
                     
                  
               
            
            Faux gives as the reason of James Maidlow for emigrating, that after a fair
                    trial, with a large farm, he found it impossible to farm, without losing money.
            Payton Wheeler, a tradesman from Chelsea, told Faux that having a wife and eight
                    children, he was determined on emigration by soberly looking into his affairs
                    and finding that he had an increasing family, and decreasing property, having
                    lost during his last year, among his tradsemen, 1,500 pounds. Birkbeck, in his
                        Notes, is thus quoted in the Edinburgh Review: 
                        A Nation, with half its population supported by alms, or poor-rates, and
                            one-fourth of its income derived from taxes, many of which are dried up
                            in their sources, or speedily becoming so, must teem with emigrants from
                            one end to the other, and, for such as myself, who have had
                            "nothing to do with the laws but obey them," it is
                            quite reasonable and just to secure a timely retreat from the
                            approaching crisis—either of anarchy or despotism.
                        An English farmer, to which class I had the honor to belong, is in
                            possession of the same rights and privileges with the villeins of old
                            time, and exhibits for the most part, a suitable political character. He
                            has no voice in the appointment of the legislature, unless he happen to
                            possess a freehold of forty shillings a year, and he is then expected to
                            vote in the interest of his landlord. He has no concern with public
                            affairs, excepting as a tax-payer, a parish officer, or a militiaman. He
                            has no right to appear at a county meeting, unless the word inhabitant
                            should find its way into the sheriff's invitation; in this case
                            he may show his face among the nobility, clergy, and freeholders; a
                            felicity which once occurred to myself, when the  inhabitants of Surrey were invited to
                            assist the gentry in crying down the Income Tax.
                        Thus, having no elective franchise, an English farmer can scarcely be
                            said to have a political existence; and political duties he has none,
                            except such as, under existing circumstances, would inevitably consign
                            him to the special guardianship of the Secretary of State for the home
                            department.
                    
            
            Following this, the Review concedes that "whoever
                    prefers his own to any other country, as a place of residence, must be content
                    to pay an enormous price for the gratification of his wish."17 The Review reproves the writers of
                    works of travel and the magazines which manifested hatred of America, and things
                    American, and it shows an appreciation of American growth and coming greatness,
                    prophetic of what the world concedes today.
            Confirming the experience of Hulme and others, as to religious persecution,
                    Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., the father of the British settlement in Indiana, whose
                    mother, Barbara, was the daughter of Rev S. Richards, of Calstock, in 
                        Devonshire
                    , a Unitarian minister, gave as his reason for emigration, in
                    addition to business depression, the fact that he was fined a shilling for
                    attendance at the Unitarian chapel of each member of his family and household.
            As early as the end of 1816 the problem of emigration from Great Britain to
                    America had become a serious one, both to the British government, and to the
                    people of America. In 
                        New York
                     alone nearly 2,000 such emigrants who, according to John Bradbury,
                    foolishly remained about the cities till their money gave out, were stranded and
                    appealed to their home government for aid. Competition among laborers was great,
                    as emigrants were arriving from all of the nations of Europe. In February, 1817,
                    the British consul in 
                        New York
                    , by newspaper advertisement, announced "the important
                    privilege to such English emigrants, to settle in upper 
                        Canada
                     or 
                        Nova Scotia
                    ." This indicated the scheme of a British colony, charged
                    in the American press to be the result of the work of a British spy. Colonies
                    west of the mountains were then urged on account of a temperate climate better
                    adapted to 
                  
                     17 Edinburgh Review, 1818, Vol.
                            XXX, 123.
               
                     settlers, than the rigorous weather of
                    upper 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Nova Scotia
                    .
            An ambitious plan of western colonization on a large scale to provide for such
                    emigrants as preferred to remain in the 
                        United States
                    , was outlined in detail in an American magazine in July, 1817.18 Bradbury's Travels in 1809,
                    1810 and 1811 published in August, 1817, gave a most favorable description of
                    the scattered people of the west and recommended colonies for mutual protection
                    of emigrants, which practice, he says, was not confined to newcomers only, but
                    was frequently adopted among old settlers. Referring to the latter, he says:
                        
                        With whom it is a continual bond of amity and social intercourse, and in
                            no part of the world is good neighborship found in greater perfection
                            than in the western territory or in America generally.
                    
            
            Morris Birkbeck's Notes came out in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in the fall of 1817, before they were published in 
                        England
                    . William Darby's Emigrants'
                    Guide, giving full directions to emigrants, was published in America about
                    the same time. In the May number, 1818, of the Analectic
                    Review, appeared a review of both of these works, in which the writer
                    refers approvingly to Birkbeck's scheme and says that his
                    "plans in the State of Indiana, bid fair to bring about the realization
                    of our more flattering hopes." Birkbeck's colony was in 
                        Illinois
                    , on the edge of the prairie beyond the heavy timber belt in
                    Indiana, which extended to the Wabash river. His temporary
                    headquarters were, however, in Indiana and he refers to the people of the latter
                    State in his work.
            When the movement among the better class of British emigrants followed that of
                    the more shiftless or unfortunate class mentioned, the former sent out agents to
                    western America to look at the country and make recommendations. Such an agent
                    was William Bradshaw Fearon, a 
                        London
                     physician, who was unfairly denounced as untruthful by Cobbett, of
                    the Long Island colony, and as an agent of the British
                    government by George Flower. Referring to the character of men and women, who
                    were a correct type of the leaders of the 
                  
                     18
                            Analectic Review, Phila. X, 62.
               
                     first English settlement in Indiana, as
                    well as, we have reason to believe, the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement, Mr. Fearon says, in substance.19
            
            At the time of his appointment as the agent of thirty-nine English families to
                    investigate and report upon the subject of a location in the west, emigration
                    had assumed a new character. It was no longer merely the poor, the idle, the
                    profligate or the wildly speculative, who were proposing to quit their native
                    country, but men also of capital, of industry, of sober and regular pursuits;
                    men of reflection, who apprehended approaching evils; men of upright and
                    conscientious minds, to whose happiness civil and religious liberty were
                    essential. And men of domestic feeling, who wished to provide for the future
                    support and prosperity of their offspring.
            The design of emigrating by colony to 
                        Illinois
                     was formed by Morris Birkbeck, who in 1817, in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and in 1818 in 
                        London
                    , published his Notes of his journey and described
                    his plans, his location, in the small prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     adjoining timber land, and its advantages. His appeal to the
                    British people met with a response of approval so general as to alarm the
                    partisans of the government, and to provoke from them attacks upon America and
                    things American; travelers like Fearon and Faux were biased with this spirit. It
                    was said of him by Faux that "no man since 
                        Columbus
                    , had done so much toward peopling America, as Morris
                    Birbeck."
            To Birkbeck more than all others, was due the first leadership of the colony, in
                    the prairie of 
                        Illinois
                    , as well as of other emigrants in the far west, at this time, who
                    did not join his colony. He was a highly educated man, a large and successful
                    tenant farmer, of 1,500 acres, called Wanborough, near Guilford, in the county
                    of Surrey. He had accumulated property which he converted into about 55,000
                    dollars cash, which he invested in his scheme of emigration. A large number of
                    his employees and former tenants joined him and became tenants or small
                    purchasers of land from him. Some returned to 
                        England
                    . Eleven editions in English of Birkbeck's Notes
                    
                  
                     19 Fearon's Sketches of
                                America, introduction. "Almost every vessel from 
                                England
                             brings more or less passengers—the current of
                            immigration is steady, and of very respectable character." Niles' Register, May 17, 1817, V. XII, p.
                            185.
               
                     were published during 1817, 1818 and 1819,
                    in 
                  Philadelphia, London, Dublin
                and Cork, and a German translation was
                    published in Jena in 1818.20 His Letters from 
                            Illinois
                        
                were published in seven editions in English in 1818, and
                    in 1819 were translated into French and German.
            George Flower was the son of Richard Flower, who was a large brewer at Hertford,
                    the county town of Hertfordshire, who had retired from business after acquiring
                    a competence, and lived upon a beautiful estate called Marden. He was the head
                    of a prominent family, still influential in 
                        England
                    . He placed a large sum at the disposal of his son, George, then 29
                    years of age, and personally joined him in promoting the success of the colony
                    where he lived the remainder of his life.
            Birkbeck and Flower sought to buy an entire township of about 40,000 acres, but
                    this required an act of congress to make an exception to the government method
                    of selling land, and that plan failed. The scheme outlined in
                    Birkbeck's Notes was therefore modified and Birkbeck
                    and Flower bought 16,000 acres in one body and other tracts were from time to
                    time added by them and by individual purchases. It is not unlikely that Birkbeck
                    and Flower might have obtained the privilege of buying one or more townships of
                    land in a body without its offer at public sale, if the Hibernian societies of
                            
                  New York, Philadelphia
                and 
                        Baltimore
                     had not at the same time petitioned congress for large concessions
                    to the Irish emigrants for colonization in bodies in the west. The House of
                    Representatives, by a decisive vote, adopted a committee report adverse to these
                    petitions, and which called attention to others without naming them, doubtless
                    including that of Birkbeck and Flower.21 An unfortunate
                    breach between the two men at the very beginning of their plans prevented them
                    ever meeting or acting together and the two men organized rival towns, Birkbeck
                    at Wanboro and Flower at Albion, only a few miles apart. Birkbeck died in 1825
                    and Wanboro later disappeared. Albion became the county seat and absorbed the
                    business of the former town. Birkbeck was the practical farmer. Before his
                    emigration, he enjoyed a 
                  
                     20 Solon Justus Buck. 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 in 1818, 112.
                  
                     21
                            Niles' Weekly Register, 1818, XIV, 256 and
                            280.
               
                     widespread celebrity as being one of the
                    first practical as well as theoretical farmers of the kingdom. His premature and
                    early death by drowning in 1825 cut short his plans, and the loss of Flower in
                    Birkbeck's alienation and death, just at the time of an expected
                    reconciliation, was very great, equally to their original scheme and to George
                    Flower personally.
            Flower was not raised a farmer and when he built Park House in the winter of
                    1818–19 for his father, later occupied by himself, it was for years
                    maintained much as a great county estate in 
                        England
                    . It was said when built to be the finest house west of the
                    Allegheny mountains.
            To Morris Birkbeck belongs the credit of the conception of the English colony in
                    the prairie of 
                        Illinois
                    , a publication of the description of the country, and a
                    presentation of statesmanlike view of the advantages of the far west to the
                    inhabitants of the old world, then considering emigration. This exerted an
                    extraordinary influence upon the British people. While in America, his son in 
                        England
                     fitted out a ship, chartered by him, which brought a ship load of
                    emigrants and supplies in April, 1818. He was nominated secretary of state ad interim of the new State of 
                        Illinois
                     and on political grounds, only, the senate refused to confirm his
                    appointment. His intimacy with Governor Edward Coles, while the latter was on a
                    diplomatic mission abroad, before he became governor, is believed to have
                    influenced his selection of 
                        Illinois
                    , as a field for his emigration scheme. He is recognized by the best
                    authority as among the first men of the State, in defeating the attempt to
                    impose slavery on the State by a new constitution.22 Richard
                    Flower was so recognized by Governor Coles, who appealed to him personally for
                    aid in that crisis.23. Birkbeck's descendants in
                    America and 
                        Australia
                    , have been and are highly respectable and successful people, some
                    of them of much prominence.
            To George Flower belongs the credit of co-operation with Birkbeck, the
                    publication of Birkbeck's Notes, one copy of which he
                    carried to 
                        Philadelphia
                     and one to 
                        London
                    , the 
                  
                     22 Washburn, Sketch of Edward
                            Coles, 188; Dwight Harris, Negro Servituds in 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 44.
                  
                     23 Washburn's Sketches of
                                Edward Coles, 145.
               
                     chartering of ships, the creation of Albion
                    as a going concern and the devotion of his life to the work in which Richard
                    Flower, his father, joined and invested a large fortune for that time.
            Richard Flower, in 1824, was commissioned by George Rapp, the head of the 
                        New Harmony
                     settlement, to sell out the property of the Rappite colony and
                    Flower visited 
                        Scotland
                     and interested Robert Owen, who made the purchase In that year. It
                    appears that Flower found Owen as the purchaser.24
            
            George Flower was a man of commanding presence, and of large natural ability. His
                    descendants have almost, without exception, been remarkable people
                    intellectually. His grandson, Rev. George F. Pentecost, D. D., still living in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in the active ministry in a great church at 75, has been and
                    remains one of the most eloquent, able and remarkable men in the American
                    pulpit.
            Enormous sums of money were spent in many ways very early by the Flowers for the
                    betterment and improvement of the colony and its inhabitants and to attract
                    emigrants. They, with Birkbeck, were broad, liberal and philanthropic. Their
                    money so lavishly spent, was not a wise financial investment in the primitive
                    state of society and economic development of the country, then just commencing.
                    The final success of the prairie agricultural colony was to be from the labor of
                    the individual farmer and his family, acting independently. Large sums invested
                    so far in advance of the times in the wilderness, were never returned and George
                    Flower and his wife lived to endure "pinching penury" in the
                    neighborhood of his former grandeur. He and his wife died the same day at
                    Grayville, 
                        Illinois
                    , January 15, 1862.
            THE ILLINOIS SETTLEMENT
            
            It is not our purpose to repeat the story of the founding of the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement and its gradual evolution into an intelligent and
                    successful agricultural community with the 
                  
                     24 George Flower, History of the
                                English Settlement in 
                                    Edwards County
                                
                     , 61, note.
               
                     attractive and cultured county seat of
                    Albion. Birkbeck's and Flower's works contain a full account
                    of the details. Professor Sparks' English Settlement in 
                            Illinois
                        
                is merely a reprint of interesting letters of Richard
                    Flower, and Morris Birkbeck, descriptive of the times and country in their
                    relationship to this emigration. He did not claim to have before him all the
                    facts in relation to the progress of that settlement, nor any acquaintance with
                    the community necessary for a determination of the question of the success of
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     colony of which he speaks in unfavorable terms. His statement that
                    a very few descendants of the English settlers are yet to be found in 
                        Edwards county
                     would seem to be a misapprehension.
            The purpose of all of these English emigrants in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana was not to form English colonies in America, with
                    English customs or laws, or with a separate or independent existence. This was
                    the opposite of Birkbeck's scheme outlined in his Notes. It was rather their movement together into a new country for the
                    betterment of men and women of common hopes and aims. It was to become pioneers
                    and citizens of a democratic republic, where the oppressive burden of rents,
                    tithes, poor rates and taxes from which they fled, practically had no existence.
                    They came, too, like the Pilgrims of old, to seek freedom from oppression,
                    including freedom to worship God. All of the Americans were emigrants or
                    descendants of emigrants. The English settlers ceased to be foreigners, they
                    became Americans, with all others.
            The success, in a sense, of an English settlement in the beginning of a community
                    like this, lay in its perfect union with all the better elements of population
                    as then came into the country, and they came rapidly. Its highest success lay in
                    the extent of its contributions to the building of character among the people,
                    to the elevation of ideals, to the establishment of public opinion, based on
                    correct standards of right and wrong, leadership in establishing public
                    improvements, churches, school houses, introducing good stock, in creating
                    improved farms, early roads, bridges and mills, and later, canals, railroads,
                    telegraph and a system of public education, 
                    as well as everything entering into the make-up of good society.
            Many of these things were introduced by Birkbeck and Flower in the very beginning
                    at enormous expense never returned to them, and with the aid of the influence of
                    the English settlers most of them came sooner than they would have come without
                    that aid. Such was distinctly the result in southwestern Indiana of the
                    permanent location of the English settlers in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .
            Mr. Walter Colyer, of Albion, himself a descendant of one of the English
                    settlers, was for nearly twenty years editor of the Albion Journal, during which period he gathered much material relating to the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement, with a view to utilizing it in various ways. During the
                    past fifteen years, since quitting the newspaper field, his stock of material
                    has increased. He has written and published a number of articles upon the
                    subject, a number for the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Society, of which for many years he has been a director.
                    He has an invaluable collection of books and pamphlets on the subject which have
                    been of much value to the writer in extending his investigation to the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement. He is best qualified of any person living to answer the
                    inquiry as to what impress the English settlement in 
                        Edwards county
                     has left today upon the community in which it was located.
                    Answering that question put to him, he gives, in a letter, the following
                    relevant facts:
                  
                     
                        As many as seven hundred English people found a permanent
                                    settlement and home in 
                                        Edwards county
                                     in the early years of the colony, to say nothing of
                                    the hundreds of others who continued to migrate from 
                                        England
                                     to the English settlement, for fifty years
                                    afterwards.
                        The great majority of those people died here in 
                                        Edwards county
                                    , and the day you were in Albion many hundreds of
                                    their descendants were on the fairgrounds to attend the
                                    Centennial Celebration. I have no means of knowing how many of
                                    those descendants were present, but it is quite likely that they
                                    comprised from one-third to one-half of the total attendance.
                        Edwards is a county in which approximately nineteen-twentieths of
                                    the farmers reside on their own farms, and farm mortgages are
                                    the exception and not the rule. The delinquent tax list,
                                    published once a year, has numerous times been printed in less
                                    than one column of space in a local newspaper. There has not
                                    been a saloon in Albion, the county seat, for more than
                                    forty-five years, and none in the entire county for that period
                                         with the exception of
                                    one for a brief time at Browns some fifteen years ago. There are
                                    but two terms of circuit court in the county a year, and it has
                                    sometimes happened court has adjourned without a jury trial or
                                    the return of an indictment. In a hundred years there have been
                                    but fourteen homicides and in but three instances was the
                                    killing done for any cause but self defense.
                        Edwards is a county in which practically every farmer owns a
                                    telephone, subscribes for a local newspaper and reads the
                                            
                              Chicago,
                                            St.
                                    Louis
                            or 
                                        Evansville
                                     dailies. It has been computed that 
                                        Edwards county
                                     has a greater number of automobiles in proportion
                                    to population than any other county, save one, in 
                                        Illinois
                                    . The per capita of wealth is greater and the
                                    standard of intelligence higher than in most of the counties of
                                    southern 
                                        Illinois
                                    . Two-thirds of the farmers have a substantial
                                    balance to their credit in a local bank.
                        The county is famous for the fact that its county jail, as well
                                    as the county almshouse, is often unoccupied for months at a
                                    time, and the jailer makes his living by other means. It can
                                    also be said with truth that Edwards is a county in which high
                                    school, college or university graduates, can be found sprinkled
                                    about on almost every section of land.
                        Those who were born, reared and trained in 
                                        Edwards county
                                    , have carried the indelible impress of their early
                                    environment to other States or countries, have in the great
                                    majority of instances prospered and done honor to the place of
                                    their birth. Many of them have become famed as editors, lawyers,
                                    statesmen, doctors, missionaries, preachers, lecturers,
                                    educators, engineers, scientists, travellers, and successful men
                                    in various lines of Industry. One became the owner of a large
                                        Fiji island and amassed a great
                                    fortune.
                        Of Albion, the county seat of 
                                        Edwards county
                                    , the town founded by George Flower a hundred years
                                    ago, it may be interesting to note that it contains practically
                                    twice as many pianos as dogs, and that it has more miles of
                                    brick paved streets than any other city of its population in
                                    southern 
                                        Illinois
                                    . It may be worth observing that the city calaboose
                                    is occupied scarcely once a year.
                     
                  
               
            
            It appears that the settlements of the English and Irish, with a few Scotch, in
                    the west, were destined, both in 
                        Illinois
                     and in Indiana, to give color and tone to the society, manners and
                    customs of the people with whom they mingled.
            THE INDIANA SETTLEMENT
            
            The facts which led Hornbrook to refuse the terms offered him by the promoters of
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     colony and to select a location in the southern Indiana wilderness,
                    which immediately became a nucleus for a British colony in Indiana, do  not all lie upon the surface, or fully
                    appear in the reasons already given for that step.
            There was something in the headship of one or two persons over others, especially
                    strong men, in the direction and domination of the most important step, in the
                    change of home and country, that was tolerated in 
                        England
                    , but wholly foreign to American soil and life. It appears that
                    Birkbeck and Flower could not agree and organized rival towns. Whatever the
                    cause assigned for the quarrel, it was true, then as now, that there could be
                    but one leader to a single movement.
            The natives called Birkbeck the Czar of the prairies. Flower, as stated, lived in
                    the finest house west of the Allegheny mountains, and in an unusual degree
                    brought into the far west English life and comforts at a great expense. Both
                    these men saw the future of the country and that empires were to be established
                    in the new western States.
            The power of organization, leadership and money had its limits, and the success
                    of the farmer lay in the products of the soil, only to be obtained by a life of
                    hard labor. Hired labor could not be obtained to accomplish that result. Men
                    would not work for others when their work for themselves would pay for their
                    farm.
            There was another circumstance which exerted some influence upon the members of
                    the Indiana colony. A number of the leaders of the emigrants in the Indiana
                    colony were men of 
                        Puritan
                     faith and principles, which moulded their lives and characters.
                    They believed implicitly in God's providence in the affairs of men, and
                    that moral forces rule the world. The moral and religious supremacy of the
                    Indiana settlement was early one of its distinguishing features. Its ministers
                    and many of its leaders believed in positive and demonstrative Christianity as
                    opposed to mere forms. They were not, however, subject to the criticism made
                    against the backwoodsmen, where public worship was very often directed and
                    controlled by ignorant and uncouth native ministers.
            George Flower says:26
                    
                        Rivals of the settlement, east of the mountains set on foot every
                            disparaging report as to health, success, provisions, morals and
                            religion.
                    
                    
                  
                     26 Sparks, History of English
                                Settlement in 
                                    Edwards County
                                
                     , 165.
               
                     Upon an emigrant refusing to land at 
                        Shawneetown
                     on one occasion, on account of the absence of church services in
                    the prairie settlement, arrangements were made for a shoemaker, Mr. Brown, to
                    read printed sermons at Wanboro, in a little cabin, and another layman read the
                    Episcopal service in the public library at Albion. On the arrival of Richard
                    Flower in 1819, he "preached" regularly every Sunday, the
                    dissenters service without church organization.
            The slaveholders who attacked Birkbeck, denounced him unfairly, as an infidel. He
                    had, in one of his letters (No. 20), admitted writing a preacher who offered to
                    come to his colony to fight infidelity and bigotry saying he had not a word to
                    say to that offer "dissuasive or encouraging" and that bigotry
                    "is a disease for which I think no remedy is so effective as letting
                    alone." The preacher did not come. The press attacked him for his
                    alleged irreligion in other utterances.
            The Eclectic Review of 1818 denounced as a profane jest his
                    motto on the title page of his letters, "Vox clamantis e
                    deserto." The same motto is used in a similar manner in the New Purchase, Chap. X, by a prominent Presbyterian divine in a
                    description of pioneer life in Indiana, with seeming propriety.
            No doubt there was unfair criticism of the "theology" of these
                    promoters, but the absence of ministers, with a practical rebuff to one who
                    desired to come to the Wanboro settlement, had its effect upon some of the
                    deeply spiritual and religious men among the emigrants. Father Parrett and
                    Father Wheeler, who settled in the Indiana colony in 1819, were educated
                    Wesleyan ministers and for a generation exercised great influence among the
                    people with whom religion was a matter of the first importance.
            How far the personal equation figured in the creation of two colonies instead of
                    one, one in 
                        Illinois
                     and one in Indiana, cannot now be determined. Flower's
                    book was written at the end of a long life, after he had ceased to be a part of
                    it, giving many interesting details of the founding of the 
                        Illinois
                     colony. He outlines fully the world-wide importance of the step. He
                    omits to give credit to many others for the 
                    work of establishing the colony on a practical basis, claiming, it is said,
                    undue credit for himself and Birkbeck.27
            
            Elias P. Fordham is described by Colyer as "the main stay of the English
                    settlement," who was the leader in many practical affairs of vital
                    importance. The records of 
                        Edwards county
                     show he collected his surveyor's fees for surveying Albion
                    by a judgment in court against Richard Flower. Not long afterwards Fordham left
                    the settlement and returned to 
                        England
                    .
            In Hartt's Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
               28 there is a strong implication that
                    James Lawrence, an English tailor, a picturesque character, had been overlooked
                    by the historians of the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement.
            Nowhere in Flower's book is any reference made to the British settlement
                    in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , nor to the publication of Dr. C. B. Johnson in
                    1819–1820, containing a prospectus of that settlement as a preface to
                    his Letters from the British Settlement in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . In this book, Johnson followed the line of
                    Birkbeck's letters and attracted much attention in 
                        England
                     and America. Dr. Johnson, besides attacking the promoters of the
                    prairie colony, when in 
                        New York
                    , later became an active promoter of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     colony, urged as containing greater advantages than a colony so far
                    west, either in "
                        Illinois
                     or Indiana." The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     colony was organized in 1819 at a meeting of a number of Englishmen
                    who had been attracted by Birkbeck's Notes and had
                    come to America intending to join his colony. Its short history is interesting
                    and sheds light on the present inquiry.
            On reaching 
                        New York
                    , Dr. C. B. Johnson, on his way to 
                        Illinois
                    , met Cobbett, who placed before him the advantages of settling east
                    of the mountains, and the hardships, ill health and suffering in the far west,
                    and poisoned his mind both against Birkbeck and George Flower personally, upon
                    which Johnson attacked the western settlement and personally attacked George
                    Flower and Birkbeck.29 Similar attacks were made in 
                        England
                     about the same time.
            
               
                  27 Address of Walter Colyer on the Fordhams and La
                        Serres of the English settlement in 
                            Edwards County
                        ; Ill. State His. Soc. Proc. 1911, p. 43.
               
                  28
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Sunday Tribune, Dec. 1, 1918.
               
                  29 George Flower, History of the English
                            Settlement in 
                                Edwards County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , 195.
            
            
            As one of a committee of five he made a contract with Dr. Robert H. Rose for an
                    option to buy a maximum amount of forty thousand acres in 
                        Susquehanna county
                    , or any smaller amount, for an English colony. Rose held one
                    hundred thousand acres in a body extending into eight townships. He had, several
                    years previously, advertised substantially the same scheme of a colony and had
                    established a settlement of 
                        New England
                     farmers on the tract. Although his terms were easy, between April,
                    1813, and September, 1815, over one hundred suits had been brought against 
                        New England
                     settlers unable to pay the price of three dollars per acre.
            In 1818 Rose advertised still easier terms to settlers, bought out the small
                    improvements of the 
                        New England
                     settlers who had made small clearings and sold them to the English,
                    who undertook to carry on the scheme which had been abandoned by the New
                    Englanders. The English remained only three or four years and the settlement
                        failed.30
            
            A third colony, of negroes, was established by Rose and proved a still greater
                    failure. Finally the location was settled by Irish laborers, who were stranded
                    in the country on the failure in the construction of a canal.
            To Dr. Johnson's volume as a preface was prefixed a prospectus by the 
                        Philadelphia
                     committee, stating with detail the scheme of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     colony, and showing that the amount of additional cost of an
                    emigrant going to the far west would buy 120 acres of land in the new
                    settlement. The book urged the unhealthy conditions in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , danger from Indians in case of war, the absence of markets, the
                    privations and extreme hardships from which a number of disappointed emigrants
                    had turned back, and presented the many advantages of markets and location so
                    near to 
                  New York, Philadelphia
                and 
                        Baltimore
                    .31 It showed that success by the individual
                    emigrant could be had in northeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     easier and with less privations than in 
                  
                     30 Emily C. Blackman, History of 
                                    Susquehanna County
                                , Penn., 453. Stocker, Susquehanna
                                County Centennial History, 502
                  
                     31 C. B. Johnson, Letters from the
                                British Settlement in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                     , 1819, Phila. & 
                                London
                            .
               
                     the west, which was probably true, with
                    land equally productive. But it was a settlement in the wilderness where success
                    demanded a life of sacrifice and hard labor which the settlers were unwilling to
                    devote and from which escape was very easy.
            Dr. Johnson was an educated man who seemed honest in his account, which is a
                    valuable record and description of details of American backwoods life of that
                    time, both east and west of the mountains.
            Birkbeck's Notes and Letters give an
                    optimistic, yet substantially truthful account of the prospects of an English
                    settler in the far west.
            Dr. Johnson's Letters present all of the facts against
                    them by a competitor. After three or four years he moved to
                            
                  Binghamton, New York
               , where he died in
                    1845 at the age of 65. Of him, the historian of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     settlement says: 
                        More than one English emigrant bemoaned the day he read Johnson's Letters, and heaped upon the author
                            accusations born of disappointment. "Too rose
                            colored," his descriptions may have been; but so, also, were
                            the notions of town-bred people respecting their own capacity to endure
                            the inevitable ills attendant upon pioneer life.32
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     settlement had underlying it the element of speculation by the
                    original proprietor of the land, not dissimilar to that of Birkbeck's
                    and Flower's schemes, and the land was hilly and it seems not very
                    productive. Hornbrook, Ingle, Maidlow and other leaders of the Indiana colony
                    were men of strong character who preferred entire independence of promoters.
                    They issued no prospectus, published no advertisements. All settlers and land
                    owners bought from the government and were on perfect equality. They realized
                    the necessities of their position and devoted their lives to their work.
            The reflected light from the literature and history of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     settlement shows in a measure the obstacles which deterred the more
                    timid and less resolute. These obstacles were far greater in the wilderness
                        
                  
                     32 Blackman, History of
                                        
                           Susquehanna
                                    County, Penn.
                        
                     , 545.
               
                     of the far west than those east of the
                    mountains to which the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     colony succumbed.
            Of the English settlement in Indiana and its relative importance in 1820, John
                    Woods, who lived two years in the 
                        Illinois
                     prairie settlement, and was not biased against the Indiana colony,
                        says:33
                    
                        There is an English settlement in Indiana about ten miles back of 
                                Evansville
                            , I have heard, better watered, and nearer markets than we;
                            but it is in the woods and the land is inferior to ours. This is the
                            account I have received of it, but I know nothing only from the report
                            of those who have no interest in either settlement.
                        I have no personal knowledge of Mr. Hornbrook or Mr. Maidlow, the heads
                            of that settlement; and should any person see my account of this part of
                            the country and cone to America, I would advise him to see both
                            settlements before he fixed in either.
                    
            
            Faux's travels west of the Alleghenies, a round trip of over 1,600
                    miles, were made to visit an old friend, John Ingle, of Saundersville, upon a
                    compact made between him and John Ingle, of 
                        Somersham
                    , who agreed to look after Faux's affairs during his
                    absence, if the latter would visit his son in America. Faux spent five weeks in
                    John Ingle's cabin, the picture of which is the frontispiece of his
                    book.
            With John Ingle, he visited 
                        New Harmony
                     and Albion and Wanboro and was by Ingle introduced to George Flower
                    and Birkbeck. Faux talked with both these men, as well as the third party
                    connected with their quarrel, and his apparently confidential conversations with
                    all of them are published by him, though of no public interest.
            Faux's descriptions are without any literary merit, and so described in
                    the English reviews of the time, and are only valuable as a record of facts
                    which he saw, as he was doubtless honest. His sensibilities were so shocked by
                    the simplicity, sacrifices and hardships of a life in the wilderness, of men and
                    women raised in the old country, with its conveniences and comforts, that he was
                    unable to describe them in anything but terms of impatience and coarse abuse.
            It should be said that when he visited the settlement in 
                  
                     33 Woods, English 
                                    Prairie
                                
                     , 251; Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, X, 321.
               
                     November, 1819, it was in its infancy, so
                    to speak, in the agonies of birth, and things were at their worst. In a short
                    time many of the conditions Faux describes improved and most of his dire
                    predictions were never verified. His narration deals with events of trifling
                    importance in the daily life of the people without sense of propriety or
                    proportions of most of them. The privacy of the lives of the people was no
                    shield from his attacks. The Saundersville settlement, with its people and its
                    surroundings, occupies a greater portion of the diary of which his volume is
                    composed than any other single subject in the book. It is particularly valuable,
                    however, as it is the only published record of the early time, other than
                    Woods' reference above set out, in which any information whatever is
                    given of the settlement in Indiana.
            George Flower, who wrote his book forty years later, mentions Hornbrook, Ingle
                    and Maidlow. He knew them all well, and knew that they all had intended to join
                    his settlement, that Ingle came over in his ship with him, and that Hornbrook
                    was the father of the Indiana settlement, so called by Woods and Faux, and he
                    had ground to believe that Hornbrook did not like him. He goes out of his way,
                    and of the facts, to avoid mentioning the Indiana colony, nowhere mentioned in
                    his book, when in speaking only once of Hornbrook, he says:34
                    
                        It was in 1818 or 1819 that Mr. Hornbrook of Devizes, 
                                Devonshire
                            , called on me, as he came to see the settlement; but having
                            made previous decision to remain at Pigeon Creek, Indiana, where 
                                Evansville
                             now stands.
                    
            
            For the latter statement no foundation existed. Horn-brook located at once where
                    he remained, as already stated.
            The British view of the importance of the emigration movement so vividly
                    described in Birkbeck's Notes is thus given in the
                    Edinburgh Review:35
                    
                        The spectacle presented by America during the last thirty or forty
                            years—ever since her emancipation began to produce its full
                            effect, and since she fairly entered the lists as an independent nation
                            with a completely popular government, has been, beyond everything
                            formerly known 
                        
                           34
                                    History of the English Settlement in Edwards
                                    County, 162.
                        
                           35 Edinburgh Review,
                                    June, 1818, XXX 121.
                     
                             in the history of mankind, imposing
                            and instructive. In order to contemplate its wonders with complete
                            advantage, an observer ought to have visited the New World twice in the
                            course of a few years. A single view is insufficient to exhibit this
                            progress in the States already settled; for there, quickly as the
                            changes are going on, the process of creation is not actually seen at
                            once, or disclosed, as it were, to the eye; some interval of time must
                            be allowed, and the comparison then shows the extent of the wonderful
                            change. But the extraordinary state of things in the western part of the
                            Union, developed by Mr. Birkbeck, shows us the process both of
                            colonization and increase at one glance. We see exposed to the naked
                            eye, the whole mystery of the generation as well as the growth of
                            nations; we at once behold in what manner the settled parts of America
                            are increasing with unparalleled rapidity; and how new and extensive
                            communities are daily created in the plains and the forests of the west,
                            by the superfluous population of the eastern settlements. Those
                            settlements assume a novel and a striking aspect.
                    
            
            Predicting the future of the settlements in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana, the Review adds: 
                        A frugal and industrious people here established is morally certain of
                            rising to the rank of a great state in the course of a few
                        generations.
                    
            
            In closing the article, the Review adds:36
                    
                        It is impossible to close this interesting volume, without casting our
                            eyes upon the marvelous empire of which Mr. Birkbeck paints the growth
                            in colours far more striking than any heretofore used in portraying it.
                            Where is this prodigious increase of numbers, this vast extension of
                            dominion to end? What bounds has nature set to the progress of this
                            mighty nation? Let our jealousy burn as it may, let our intolerance of
                            America be as unreasonably violent as we please; still it is plain, that
                            she is a power in spite of us, rapidly rising to supremacy; or, at
                            least, that each year so mightily augments her strength, as to overtake,
                            by a most sensible distance, even the most formidable of her
                            competitors.
                    
            
            George Flower, who had been the guest of Thomas Jefferson the previous winter,
                    wrote the latter, asking his aid in the effort to get an act of congress for the
                    purchase of 40,000 acres in one body. Mr. Jefferson answered the letter,
                    promising his aid.37
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Not on the selfish principle of increasing our population at the
                                    expense of other nations, for the additions are but as a drop in
                                    a bucket to those 
                              
                                 36 Edinburgh Review, XXX, 137.
                              
                                 37 George Flower, English Settlement in 
                                                  Edwards County
                                                
                                 , 178.
                           
                                     by natural procreation, but
                                    to consecrate a sanctuary for those whom the misrule of Europe
                                    may compel to seek happiness in other climes, this refuge, once
                                    known, will produce reaction, even to those there, by warning
                                    their task-masters that when the evils of Egyptian oppression
                                    become heavier than those of abandonment of country, another
                                    Canaan is opened, where their subjects will be received as
                                    brothers and secured from like oppression by a participation in
                                    the rights of self-government.
                     
                  
               
                
            After eloquently setting forth the advantages and blessings of good government, a
                    motive, he continues in his letter: 
                  
                     
                        You have set your country a good example, by showing them a
                                    practicable mode of reducing their rulers to the necessity of
                                    becoming more wise, more moderate, and more honest, and I
                                    sincerely pray that the example may work for the benefit of
                                    those who cannot follow it, as it will for your own.
                     
                  
               
            
            ORGANIZATION
                    OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
            
            The organization of county and township government in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     began in 1818, contemporaneously with the coming of the British
                    emigrants. These were not treated as foreigners and regarded themselves a part
                    of the body of the county, owners of the soil and ready to take an active part
                    in all civic duties. While members of the settlement in the beginning were
                    located very closely together, with Saundersville as the village center, it was
                    never a separate communtiy, so far as sympathies with American ideals and
                    surroundings were concerned.
            Treating the members of the British settlement as a separate source of influence,
                    with ideals and culture transplanted from the old world into the wilderness of
                    the new, there may be said to have been at the beginning two other classes of
                    people in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , the influence of which may be for the time separately traced.
                    These were best represented by the southern backwoodsmen and their leaders, men
                    of strong personality, and a few men from 
                  New
                        England, New
                    York
                and other Atlantic coast States.
            At this period in the union of all these elements, was the beginning of a new and
                    composite social and political order in this locality, less homogeneous in some
                    respects than its surroundings, including the population south of the river, but
                    more cosmopolitan as the result of such a union.
            
            
               
                        Warrick county
                     had been the parent county, which from 1814 to 1818 had furnished
                    local government in a most primitive manner, over large territory, mostly a
                    wilderness. Previous to that time, 
                        Vincennes
                    , the territorial county seat of 
                        Knox county
                    , had been the nearest seat of justice, too far distant to be of
                    much service to the few scattered settlers. By an unwritten law, the right of
                    self-defense and the doctrine of immediate personal responsibility for a
                    violation of individual rights, among the natives, maintained order, sufficient
                    for the time.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     was the capital of the territory and the mother city of the
                    northwest during this period. 
                        Princeton
                     was incorporated in 1814 and was a thriving village described by
                    Faux in 181938 as containing 105 houses, 19 streets, one
                    prison and one meeting house. Henderson, Kentucky, then known as Red Banks, was
                    near the western boundary of immigration in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1803 and earlier, and was early an organized community of
                    commercial influence, with a church and school, including an excellent Female
                    Seminary. In this town the first 
                        Evansville
                     merchants bought much of their stocks. The route of travel across
                    the river from 
                        Kentucky
                     into Indiana through 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , was over the ferry at the mouth of Green
                    river, the ferry opposite 
                        Evansville
                    , and the ferry at Red Banks, between which point and 
                        Vincennes
                     there was considerable travel. In low water the Indian trail
                    crossed the Ohio river at a ford already described.
            In the first decade of the last century, the immigrants from 
                        Kentucky
                    , who were practical woodsmen and familiar with the nature of the
                    soil, passed by the high land of central and north 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , which was not so productive as the lands in Gibson and Posey
                    counties. A majority of these immigrants from 
                        Kentucky
                     settled in what later became 
                        Gibson county
                     on the north, in preference to the locality of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .
            Before the English came, there were already upon the ground several leading men
                    born in 
                        England
                    , who had emigrated 
                  
                     38
                            Thwaite's Early Western Travels, XI,
                        224.
               
                     to the Atlantic coast States, and who had
                    come westward with the tide of emigration through 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     into Indiana. Samuel Scott, Everton Kennerly, Richard Carlisle, the
                    Prichetts and some of the Fairchilds though of English birth, were as distinctly
                    American as were any of the natives among whom they intermingled.
            These men immediately identified themselves with members of the English
                    settlement, and on the other hand, the latter became identified with all matters
                    of public interest equally with the natives. The act of the legislature creating 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     named the house of Samuel Scott—the center of the
                    settlement to be—as the place of meeting of the commissioners named
                    in the act, to select the county seat, and 
                        Evansville
                     was thus chosen.
            Richard Carlisle had been a justice of peace in 
                        Warrick
                    , before 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     was formed. He was a blacksmith, and the only man, shown by the
                    records, who held his own in personal encounter with the turbulent Hugh McGary,
                    the younger.
            Everton Kennerly, like 
                        Carlisle
                    , of English birth, a brother-in-law of Samuel Scott, was a natudal
                    leader and one of the most active and useful public men in the township, town
                    and county for many years.
            Elisha Harrison, a second cousin of William Henry Harrison, former territorial
                    governor of Indiana, and later President of the 
                        United States
                    , lived, when the county was formed, on a farm west of Samuel Scott,
                    and represented 
                        Warrick county
                     in the legislature when 
                        Vanderburgh
                     was created, when he moved to 
                        Evansville
                    . He was a native, of 
                        Virginia
                     Revolutionary stock, and the first state senator elected from 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    . He was an able man, of many excellent traits, public spirited,
                    well educated and until his death in 1825 or 1826, was in the front of every
                    public movement, and freely invested his fortune in public enterprises, more
                    perhaps than any man of his time. He established and maintained the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Weekly Gazette at a loss for about four and one-half years.39 With a mechanic 
                  
                     39 The 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette had a contract for publishing the laws of
                            congress, and the state department saved about three and one-half years
                            Issue of the paper,
               
                     as a partner, he built the first courthouse
                    in the county. The owner of the ferry on the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Evansville
                     was indicted for neglect of this public duty. Harrison bought his
                    equipment, erected or purchased a tavern on a Water street lot, took out a
                    license for the ferry in his own name and maintained it opposite
                    "Chutes" Tavern. When salt works were the most desirable
                    addition to the town then hoped for, Harrison, at much expense, with his partner
                    in general merchandise, James W. Jones, sank a well on Pigeon creek and found
                    salt water at 463 feet, which event was announced with great expectations, and
                    furnished the occasion for a short but valuable sketch of 
                        Evansville
                     in 1824.40 He was brigadier general in the
                        militia.41
            
            Ratliff Boone, born in 
                        Georgia
                    , a grandson of Israel Boone, brother of Daniel Boone, lived in
                            
                  Boonville, Warrick county
               , was lieutenant
                    governor and governor of Indiana, and for many years congressman of this
                    district.
            Robert M. Evans, a man of much prominence, and James W. Jones, both of 
                        Princeton
                    , came to 
                        Evansville
                     about 1819. Evans came to 
                        Knox county
                     in 1805. When 
                        Gibson county
                     was organized in 1814 he became and remained county clerk for over
                    four years. Col. William M. Cockrum, whose father lived a few miles east of
                    Evans, says he was during that time the leading man in the county and managed
                    its business affairs.42
            
            David Hart, son of one of the Hart brothers, of Richard Henderson & Co.,
                    in pioneer 
                        Kentucky
                    , was first circuit judge of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and lived in 
                        Princeton
                    .
            James R. E. Goodlett, born in 
                        Virginia
                    , was for more than ten years his successor as circuit judge, and
                    lived in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .
            Hugh McGary, the elder, with his family came out of 
                        North Carolina
                     with Daniel Boone in 1775, was an Indian 
                  now in the Congressional Library, the only copy in existence. It has
                            escaped the historian.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, Sept. 9, 1824.
                  
                     41
                            Id., May 7, 1823.
                  
                     42 Ex-Governor Joseph Lane gives to Evans and
                            Ratliff Boone a place of prominence among the men of the State. History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                      (B. & F.), 102.
               
                     fighter of undisputed bravery, and a figure
                    of the heroic age in the west. In his old age, he settled in 
                        Knox county
                     about 1804 and died there in 1806 near where 
                        Princeton
                     was later located. The McGarys lived in that locality when in 1812
                    Hugh McGray, the younger, entered fractional section 30, upon which 
                        Evansville
                     was later located. As such original proprietor he became a local
                    celebrity in 
                        Evansville
                    , concerning whom a number of historical facts exist in the records,
                    some of which have been incorrectly recorded in local history.
            James W. Jones was from 
                        Kentucky
                     and was clerk of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     for many years and was the head of a family of influence. His son,
                    James Gerard Jones, was first mayor of the city of 
                        Evansville
                     and in 1859 was attorney general of Indiana. He was probably
                    related to John G. Jones, the first chairman of the Committee of Safety in the
                    county of 
                        Kentucky
                    , before it became a state. John G. Jones was murdered by Indians
                    December 25, 1776. John G. Jones was succeeded as such chairman by Hugh McGary,
                    the elder, upon whom the women and children in 
                        Kentucky
                     much depended for safety in the Indian wars. Jones, Evans and
                    McGary platted 
                        Evansville
                     as it was permanently located in 1817.
            Joseph Lane,43 born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , became a citizen of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     when his farm on two sides was made the line between that county
                    and 
                        Warrick
                    . 
                        Boone
                     legislated Lane out of his county, as the latter was a man of great
                    popularity. This fact accounts for the irregular eastern line of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .44 He defeated Evans in the race for the
                    legislature in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , of which Evans gives an amusing explanation in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Gazette. Lane became governor of and 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Oregon
                     and was an unsuccessful candidate before the people of the 
                        United States
                     on the Breckenridge and Lane Presidential ticket in 1860.
            General Washington Johnston, the earliest member of the 
                        Vincennes
                     bar, came there from 
                        Virginia
                     in 1792. He was 
                  
                     43 An adequate sketch of General Joseph Lane is
                            found in Woolen's Sketches of Early Indiana
                                Leaders.
                  
                  
                     44
                            
                        
                                    Warrick
                                 and Its Prominent People, Fortune, 73,
                        note.
               
                     before the public in many forms during his
                        life.45 He was a revolutionary soldier.46 In 1819 when the panic affected the country so that the grain rotted in
                    the fields and 
                        Vincennes
                     lost one-half of its population47, Johnston
                    came to 
                        In 1824 half the houses in 
                                Evansville
                             were vacant, said to have been the result of sickness in
                            the locality, but it is probable the panic still existing had much to do
                            with it. Autobiography of Joseph Tarkington, 99.
                    
            
            
               
                        Evansville
                    , where he lived not over a year, but during 1819, the record shows
                    that he was deputy county clerk. He speculated in land in all the neighboring
                    counties, as their deed records show, but he returned to 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            George W. Lindsay, another attorney of the 
                        Vincennes
                     bar, came at the same time with Johnston, was prosecuting attorney
                    of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , one term of court in 1819. He became the first probate judge in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     in 1829, served many years, and died here. His wife and two
                    daughters moved to Posey county.
            Levi Igleheart, Sr., from Tidewater, 
                        Maryland
                    , settled in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1815, where his sons, Asa and Levi, Jr., were born and in 1823
                    he settled in 
                        Warrick county
                    , Indiana, on the eastern boundary of the English settlement, where
                    his son William was born; near this point, then and later, a dozen English
                    families including the Lockyears, settled. Two of his sons married daughters and
                    one a niece of John Ingle, of Saundersville, all granddaughters of John Ingle,
                    of 
                        Somersham
                    . One of his daughters married Mark Wheeler, and one John Erskine.
            These men were all from 
                        Kentucky
                     or came from 
                        Virginia
                     or more southerly states through 
                        Kentucky
                    . They were chief among the native leaders of the earliest settlers
                    with whom the English emigrants mingled upon their arrival or soon afterwards.
                    There were a number of other intelligence, successful and influential people
                    from the south and east, as well as from Great Britain, who lived in and near 
                        Evansville
                     during this period, but it is beyond the scope of this article to
                    write a history of early 
                        Evansville
                    , or even to furnish a 
                  
                     45 Dunn, History of Indiana,
                            355.
                  
                     46
                            Indiana Magazine of History, June, 1914, p. 54.
                  
                     47 Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            Vol. 1, p. 280 and note.
               
                     list of the names of its leading citizens.
                    The scattered settlers in the counties bordering on the north side of the
                        Ohio river were chiefly from the south and brought with
                    them southern ideals. These leaders from the south represented the great body of
                    the scattered backwoodsmen when the English came, who, with those from 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New England
                     and the leaders of the British settlement, 
                        were all stern men with Empires In their brains.
                    
            
            The definite and prompt protection of individual rights, under the enforcement of
                    law, had been uncertain in the backwoods of the west. Public opinion sometimes
                    justified methods in private life, which in the older communities were regarded
                    as lawless, and turbulent spirits, under the influence of liquor, sometimes
                    defied the law.
            Complaint was made by Faux, Fearon and other travelers, as well as by Cobbett and
                    by Dr. Johnson (both of whom were biased in their judgments), in the war of
                    pamphlets between the British colonies east and west of the Alleghenies, that
                    such a condition existed in this section at the time of which we write. In
                    speaking of this subject, Dr. Johnson, who had never been west of the mountains,
                        wrote:48
                    
                        I had formed an erroneous opinion of a woodsman. I expected to find rude
                            manners; but the people here behave with, great civility and propriety.
                            I have not heard a single instance of profane language, or indecent
                            expression, in this settlement. An air of comfort pervades the
                            habitations of the humblest kind; and in general, the demeanour of the
                            wife shows her to have her full share of the family control. These
                            people are almost all from the 
                                New England
                             States; by which name is designated the section of country
                            north and east of 
                                New York
                            , which has always been remarked for the enterprise and good
                            moral conduct of its citizens. To the inhabitants of this section of the 
                                United States
                            , who are also distinguished by their shrewdness, the term
                            Yankee is applied; and not, as it is understood in 
                                England
                            , to all the States. A Yankee, therefore, means a native of 
                                New England
                            . The civility of disposition in which they are educated at
                            home, is taken abroad with them, and they are said to form a class of
                            settlers far superior to those who emigrate from the southern States to
                            the western wilderness.
                    
            
            Flower intimates that Johnson was a land speculator and the history of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     settlement adds color to that 
                  
                     48 C. B. Johnson, M. D., Letters from
                                the British Settlement in Penn., 111.
               
                     suspicion. The latter had not lived among
                    the woodsmen and allowance should be made for a strong bias against the far
                    west.
            If the proper allowance be made for the lapse of time, required in the successive
                    waves of emigration from the Atlantic coast frontier to the frontier in the
                    wilderness along the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Wabash rivers in 1818, it will appear
                    that the men on the frontier first mentioned, in 1750 and later, had much the
                    same "boisterous tastes and dangerous amusements of
                    frontiersmen" as those on the latter "from the
                    south," as Johnson reports, quoting the very guarded admission of a
                    distinguished 
                        New England
                     Historian.49
            
            The North Atlantic coast States had their share of bond servants and
                    redemptioners as well as the southern States.50 As late as
                    1820, the rabid anti-American reviews in 
                        England
                     were quoting Dr. Johnson's remark "that the
                    Americans are a race of convicts, and ought to be thankful for anything we allow
                    them short or hanging."51
            
            The effect and necessities of the institution of slavery had prevented the
                    emigration of independent foreign labor into the south to any considerable
                    extent. The southern people were a homogeneous people and so remained. The
                    English people were hostile to slavery. Those emigrants who preferred slave
                    labor passed on to 
                        Missouri
                    , in large numbers. The institution of slavery and its necessities
                    in molding the law, public opinion, and customs of the people, were
                    objectionable to anti-slavery Englishmen and to anti-slavery people in America.
            In fact, the original location for the English settlement, later made in the 
                        Illinois
                     prairie, by Birkbeck and Flower, of which the Indiana settlement
                    was a part would probably have been in 
                        Virginia
                    , but for the existence of slavery in that State. George Flower
                    spent his first winter with Thomas Jefferson (as a distinguished guest) at his
                    home in 
                  
                     49 Albert Bushnell Hart, Formation of
                                the Union, 18.
                  
                     50 John R. Commons, Industrial
                                History of the U. S., 42. Commons estimates that probably
                            one-half of all the immigrants landed in the colonial period as
                            indentured servants. The 
                                Plymouth
                             settlers brought with them "bond
                            servants." Moore's Industrial History of
                                the American People, 109.
                  
                     51
                            Electic Review, May, 1820, 401.
               
                    
                    
                        Virginia
                    , and seriously considered establishing his colony there. Birkbeck
                    vetoed the plan on account of slavery.52
            
            On the north side of the Ohio river, new conditions existed.
                    A fierce struggle for the control of Indiana by slave owners, from the time of
                    establishment of the territory until the admission of the State in 1816, for a
                    while practically maintained slavery in form in the territory53; but it was forbidden on the admission of the State to the Union.
            It cannot be denied that among the intellectual and leading men in this community
                    of that time, who came from 
                  Kentucky, Virginia
                and 
                        North Carolina
                    , the English and 
                        New England
                    , idea of maintenance of public order by law, without the doctrine
                    of personal responsibility for a personal affront, did not have always the
                    fullest support.
            Faux himself, indulging in one of his inconsistent moods, gave a very plausible
                    reason why fear of instant punishment for an insult was often a preventive more
                    effective than the fear of possible punishment by law in the distant future. He
                    also gave an excuse for carrying side-arms in 
                        Kentucky
                    , as necessary to protection of law-abiding citizens from the
                    gouging and nose-biting rowdies, when in liquor. Judge David Hart resigned as
                    judge soon after his election or appointment, on account of a challenge he had
                        given.54 Judge J. R. E. Goodlett, of the circuit court,
                    was indicted by the grand jury for provoke and assault in drawing a sword cane.
                    His two associate judges, both laymen, quashed the indictment on the ground, as
                    the record shows, that the law on which the indictment was based was unconstitutional. While on the bench he had a newspaper
                    controversy with Robert M. Evans, started by the latter, resulting in
                    recriminations, and Colonel Cockrum is authority for the statement that a duel
                    to the death between them was avoided only by the severest measures of mutual
                    friends. After Goodlett retired from the bench, he assaulted Judge Samuel Hall,
                    his successor, while presiding in court on the bench and was imprisoned 
                  
                     52 Thwaite, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 240.
                  
                     53 Dunn, History of Indiana,
                            Chapters VI and IX.
                  
                     54 Thwaite, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 215.
               
                     for contempt. The members of the bar of the
                    circuit published a statement condemning him.55
            
            Robert M. Evans, Elisha Harrison, Hugh McGary and all of his brothers, State
                    Senator, later Governor Ratliff Boone, and others were indicted and tried for
                    misdemeanors, generally assault and battery. Some well-known persons were
                    indicted for more serious offenses. Doubtless it was true that resort was had to
                    the grand jury in a number of cases then, which to us now seem trivial. Probably
                    the excuses for such very strict and frequent use of the law existed in the fact
                    that there was in the beginning a vicious, lawless and dangerous element in the
                    lower classes, which without the fear of the law, stopped at nothing. It did not
                    hesitate to defy the law at the beginning, and until the supremacy of the law
                    was fully vindicated, which, as will appear, was soon done. It needs no argument
                    to make clear that even the lawless element of that period, as they appear to us
                    now, became such in part at least, as the result of the great sarcifice made by
                    them and their ancestors in performing their work, of conquering and holding the
                    land west of the mountains from the Indians. For several generations they had
                    been sentinels on the border of civilization. But for this work also, in
                    occupying the land conquered by George Rogers Clark, the treaty between Great
                    Britain and the Colonies at the close of the Revolutionary war would have left
                    the territory north of the Ohio river part of 
                        Canada
                    , as 
                        England
                     then regarded it.56
            
            The historian, after describing the rugged frontiersmen and backwoodsmen of the
                    "up country," says: 
                        Had the settlement of 
                                Kentucky
                             depended on the achievement of Tidewater Virginians, it
                            would be at this moment a kingdom of red Indians and a pasture for wild
                            buff aloes.57
                  
                    
            
            But the issue was now to be settled in the new State of Indiana, between law and
                    order on the one hand and lawlessness on the other. John Law, a young lawyer of 
                        Vincennes
                    , a native of 
                        Connecticut
                    , had just begun the practice of law in 
                  
                     55
                            History of 
                                    Posey County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 432.
                  
                     56 George Elliott Howard, Preliminaries of the Revolution, 241. C. H. Van Tyne, The American Revolution, 271–284.
                  
                     57 Cotterill, History of Pioneer 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 25.
               
                    
                    
                        Vincennes
                    , when he was appointed prosecuting attorney for 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    . He served as the first prosecutor, beginning with the March term,
                    1818, and continued for more than two years, when he resigned. He was an
                    efficient prosecutor, as the records which have been preserved show, but the
                    order book records of the circuit court of the county for 1818 and 1819 are not
                        preserved.58 Some years later he moved to 
                        Evansville
                    .
            For many years following John Law as prosecutor, Amos Clark was the prosecuting
                    attorney. He came from 
                        New York
                     State when first 
                        Evansville
                     was made the county seat. He was an educated man and a very able
                    lawyer. He was upon one side or the other of practically all of the cases, and
                    sole attorney in very many cases which did not require adverse representation of
                    counsel in court. He was a man of high moral character, had high ideals, and was
                    fearless in the administration of the law. He prosecuted some of the leading men
                    of the community and their relatives, as already stated. Several men of
                    prominence in the beginning of 
                        Evansville
                     were lawless spirits and attempted to defy the law and public
                    opinion. With these men Amos Clark measured, and within four or five years the
                    records show he had vindicated the law and thoroughly broken up all attempts to
                    defy it. The community owes more to Amos Clark than is known.
            Charles I. Battell, a 
                        Massachusetts
                     lawyer, was for a short time the prosecuting attorney, and later,
                    in the 30's, judge of the circuit court. Alanson Warner was from 
                        Connecticut
                    , was the second man elected to the office of sheriff and was a
                    tactful, useful, and influential man in the community for a generation.59
            
            In this enforcement of the law, the grand juries were the source of power, and
                    much of the time the leading and dominating men upon the grand jury were from
                    the British settlement, 
                  
                     58
                            Life of John Law, by Charles Denby. Indiana Historical Soc. Pub., V. I, No. 7.
                  
                     59 His shrewd character may be seen in an
                            advertisement in the Gazette warning tax payers to
                            pay, but offering to take produce at his tavern from farmers as credit
                            on their taxes—a real accommodation to the people in an
                            almost moneyless age. 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, May 31, 1824.
               
                     and at all times there were representatives
                    of that settlement upon the grand jury. In like manner this element was
                    prominent in the trial of cases on the regular panel of the jury of the court,
                    which tried men indicted for offenses against the law. In matters of public
                    opinion in support of the law, there were a number of men in the settlement who
                    were very influential and of great value in supporting the administration of
                    justice. Particularly among these were Robert Parrett and Joseph Wheeler,
                    ministers of the gospel, whose careers formed a very important part of the
                    development of this community for a period of thirty years.
            THE EARLY HOOSIERS
            
            It may be interesting at this point to speak of the body of Hoosier settlers,
                    with whom the English came in contact, who were not so prominent as the leaders
                    mentioned. For the reason already given, the rich country around where 
                        Princeton
                     is now located had been settled a number of years earlier than, 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    . Upon the coming of the English, 
                        Princeton
                    , then two years old, was chosen as headquarters by Birkbeck, Flower
                    and Fordham, where they lived before the settlement in the prairie in 
                        Illinois
                     was prepared for them. All of these persons frequently mention 
                        Princeton
                     and its people.
            John Ingle, one of the leaders of the Indiana colony, lived one season in 
                        Princeton
                     before coming to the Saundersville settlement. So the travelers of
                    the time, who all visited 
                        New Harmony
                    , usually came or went by 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , on account of good accommodations for travelers in roads and
                    taverns and 
                        Princeton
                     is frequently mentioned in the literature of the time. The
                    subsequent history of 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Gibson county
                     establishes the fact that the body of the people of this town were
                    a fair type of the people in the country, in no substantial degree different,
                    and were of the same origin, already referred to. They were a fair type of
                    Hoosier pioneers, who located in Indiana from 1801 to 1818.60
            
            
               
                  60
                        Autobiography of Rev. Joseph Tarkington. A representative
                        native pioneer, born in 1800 in 
                            Tennessee
                        , of poor but respectable 
                            North Carolina
                         parentage,
            
            
            The fairest description of the common people of southern Indiana in 1817 and
                    1818, which we have seen, was written by Morris Birkbeck, who sought to discover
                    all that was good in them, but who stated both sides in his descriptions. In the
                    article already cited, from the Edinburgh Review of June,
                    1818, so fully reviewing Birkbeck's Notes on America,
                    occurs the following:61
                    
                        The rapidity with which new settlements are formed in this manner, is
                            illustrated by Mr. Birkbeck's whole book; but nothing tends
                            more clearly to show it than the state of society which he found at 
                                Princeton
                            , where he took up his abode while his land was preparing to
                            receive him. This is a small town, placed at the further limit of
                            Indiana, and founded only two years before our author's
                            arrival. It contained fifty houses; was the county town of the district;
                            and contained (says Mr. B) as many "well informed, genteel
                            people, in proportion to the number of inhabitants, as any county town I
                            am acquainted with." "I think," he adds,
                            "there are half as many individuals who are entitled to that
                            distinction as there are houses; and not one decidedly vicious
                            character, nor one that is not able and willing to maintain
                            himself."
                    
            
            His notes and letters contain many other descriptions of the plain people. One of
                    the best descriptions of the country and the people in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     at a period earlier than that described by Birkbeck is found in the
                        Travels of John Bradbury in 1809–1811,
                    published by him in 1819, with comments of that later time, reviewing and
                    discriminating unfriendly criticism of travelers who rapidly passed through the
                    county, similar to those already mentioned. In regard to the manners of the
                    people west of the Alleghenies, he says, on account of the mixture of so many
                    races and elements, it would be absurd to expect that a general character could
                    then be formed, or that it would be for many years to come. After referring to
                    the entire absence of feeling existing between 
                  came with his parents in 1815 to Patoka, in 
                                Gibson county
                            , Indiana, to live in a free territory. Later the family
                            settled in 
                                Monroe county
                            . He was converted in that county, spent a short time in the
                            Indiana Seminary under Hall, principal, was persuaded by the circuit
                            riders to enter the Methodist ministry and later travelled the 
                                Vevay
                             circuit in which Eggleston Jived. He lived over
                            seventy-five years in Indiana. His simple account of pioneer life as
                            real history is worth more than the novels of any writer of fiction,
                            either dialectic, or otherwise. He was the father of the late John S.
                            Tarkington, a prominent citizen of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and grandfather of Booth Tarkington, the author.
                  
                     61 Edinburgh Review, XXX,
                        136.
               
                     classes, as in Europe, and the equality in
                    natural rights asserted by and conceded to the humblest citizen, Bradbury
                        says:62
                    
                        Travelers from Europe, in passing through the western country or indeed
                            any part of the 
                                United States
                            , ought to be previously acquainted with this part of the
                            American character, and more particularly if they have been in the habit
                            of treating with contempt, or irritating with abuse, those whom
                            accidental circumstances may have placed in a situation to administer to
                            their wants. Let no one here indulge himself in abusing the waiter or
                            hostler at the inn; that waiter or hostler is probably a citizen, and
                            does not, nor can he, conceive that a situation in which he discharges a
                            duty to society, not in itself dishonorable, should subject him to
                            insult, but this feeling, so far as I have experienced, is entirely
                            defensive.
                        I have travelled near ten thousand miles in the 
                                United States
                             and never received the least incivility or affront.
                    
            
            There is nothing in Birkbeck's description of the people of 
                        Princeton
                     with whom he and Flower and Fordham, with their families, mingled,
                    when they lived there, inconsistent with the descriptions of Edward
                    Eggleston's novel, The Hoosier School Master, nor
                    those of Baynard Rush Hall in the New Purchase. The difference
                    is in the view point.
            Consistent with all Birkbeck says, had he been searching for material for a
                    dialect story of low Hoosier life, he would probably have found it in 
                        Princeton
                    .
            This was the purpose of Eggleston, who found what he sought.63 As a correct description of Hoosier dialect in low life, the writer can
                    testify that practically all of his dialect phrases and words are true to life
                    and as such a dialect study the work is a classic. But while the author never
                    made any claim that the book contains any description of the better class of
                    Hoosiers who lived in southern Indiana at the beginning of the State, or the
                    time of which he writes, he fails to guard that class against the opinion so
                    generally formed out of the State that he was describing its people.
            Dr. Eggleston knew the interpretation the literary world put upon the Hoosier School Master, as a portrayal of early Hoosier life.
                    He found it necessary to vindicate his own 
                  
                     62 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, V, 292.
                  
                     63 Edward Eggleston, Hoosier
                                Schoolmaster, As to dialect in Southern Indiana, see also The Hoosiers, by Meredith Nicholson, 45.
               
                     origin from the suspicion of common birth
                    and low associations.64 In 1890 he published an
                    autobiographical sketch, a delightful article, the chief purpose of which seems
                    to be to clear his memory and that of his ancestors.65
            
            Among the many of such unfriendly interpretations was one by the Atlantic Monthly, in reviewing one of his novels, which he says in his
                    introduction to his biography, sympathetically remarked on the hardship it must
                    have been to a "highly organized man" to be born in southern
                    Indiana, in an age of hard-cider campaigns. In resenting this, and praising 
                        Vevay
                    , his birthplace, he confines his defense or eulogy to the beauty of
                    its location and of the natural scenery surrounding it—"one
                    of the loveliest villages on the Ohio river," but
                    there is nothing in defense of the much misunderstood Hoosiers who lived there.
                    The following sentence seems significant at this point: 
                        I changed to the larger Indiana towns, along the Ohio
                            river, where there was a semi-urban life of considerable
                            refinement.
                    
            
            Only speaking of his own family he says he was "born in an intellectual
                    atmosphere." While he vindicated himself and his family, he left it to
                    time and to others, to do full justice to the better class of early Hoosier
                    people. It cannot be doubted that this silence on the author's part,
                    upon the interpretation thus widely given to this work, the most popular of all
                    his books, was intentional on his part and that he had a motive in not
                    "meddling" with the subject.
            Two years later in 1892—he published a Library Edition of the book
                    with a long and elaborate preface, which he calls a biography of the book,
                    dealing with the history and character of the work, its wonderful success, and
                    declares it to be the file leader of American dialect novels. His discussion
                    along that line is novel and very interesting. He says: 
                        This initial novel, the favorite of the larger public, has become
                            inseparably associated with my name. I could not write in this vein,
                            now, if I would, and twenty-one years have made so many changes in me
                                that I dare not make any but minor changes in this
                                work. The author of the 
                        
                           64 Introduction to Library Edition Hoosier Schoolmaster, 26.
                        
                           65
                                    The Forum, Nov., 1890, p. 290.
                     
                            
                            Hoosier Schoolmaster is distinctly not I; I am but his
                            heir and executor; and since he is a more popuar writer than I, why should I meddle with his work.
                  
                        No one knows so well as I the faults of immaturity and inexperience that
                            characterize this book, but perhaps the pubic is right in preferring an
                            author's first book, etc.
                    
            
            Here seems to be an explanation why the author had determined to keep
                    "hands off" the book. Without discussing that subject, it
                    seems clear that as a dialect novel of low life only, it is irrelevant, and
                    should be excluded as a history of the better class of Hoosiers of that time.
                    The writer has always regarded Dr. Eggleston as one of the leading American men
                    of letters, of whom the Hoosiers should be justly proud. In his sketch of his
                    life mentioned, he traces his ancestry on one side to the old 
                        Virginia
                     aristocracy, and his short characterization of that people as they
                    appeared to him, is a masterpiece, worthy of reproduction here. After stating
                    that at sixteen, after his father's death, he was sent to live for a
                    year in 
                        Virginia
                    , he says: 
                        The change from a free to a slave state, not yet entirely out of its
                            pioneer crudities, to a society so fixed and conservative as that of the
                            Old Dominion, was as great as the 
                                United States
                             afforded at that time.
                        The old 
                                Virginia
                             country-gentleman life had a fascination not possessed by
                            any other society in the new world.
                        With its unbounded hospitality to all coiners, its enormous family pride,
                            its sharp line of distinction between the well-born and the plebeian,
                            its social refinement, its narrow local prejudices, its chivalrous and
                            romantic sentiment toward ladies, and a certain laxity of morals growing
                            out of the existence of a slave class, it could not fail to excite a
                            profound interest in the mind of one who had been bred in a simpler and
                            less dignified society, in which proprieties were less regarded, and
                            moralities somewhat more rigidly enforced. According to the 
                                Virginia
                             method of reckoning, I was cousin to a large fraction of
                            the population of the State; and I found myself a member of a powerful
                            clan, at once domesticated, and given singular opportunities for knowing
                            a life, which, in the new world and in the middle years of the
                            nineteenth century was a curious anachronism.
                        The Virginians themselves I found a most lovable people, and admirable in
                            their generosity and high sense of honor in public and private affairs.
                            Even if their recklessness of danger and disregard of human life, where
                            family or personal pride was involved, were barbarisms, they were at
                            least barbarisms of the nobler sort. ∗ ∗
                            ∗ Though I saw slavery 
                            in its mildest forms among my relations I could not be blind to the
                            manifold injustice and the unavoidable cruelties of the system.
                    
            
            Between the lines of this charming description may be observed a reserve, as
                    though the author was addressing the American cosmopolitan world, which many
                    believe centers east of the Alleghenies and north of the Potomac. At the same
                    time his description seems to be full of sympathy. It is the conception of a man
                    born in the north, of good southern stock, with northern education, rearing and
                    ideals.
            Had Eggleston remained west, in that deep sympathy with western life found in the
                    character sketches of Judge James Hall,66 of the same class
                    of people described in Eggleston's work generally, it may be questioned
                    whether his method of treatment would have been the same. Or, if so, whether he
                    would not at least have made a reasonable effort to anticipate the unfriendly
                    effect which his work was destined to produce upon the reputation of the early
                    Hoosier pioneers, outside of the State. It is to be regretted that he neglected
                    at this last opportunity to say a word on the subject.
            Had Baynard Hall sought to find the coarse exhibitions of uncultured and ignorant
                    people in 
                        Princeton
                    , such as he described in the New Purchase, no
                    doubt he could have found them. Many counterparts of his caricatures of
                    offensive habits of common people could probably then and later have been found
                    in 
                        New Jersey
                     had he hunted for them there as he did in Indiana. His book is
                    written anonymously and individuals are attacked under assumed names so that a
                    key to the book is required. One future governor of the State, James Whitcomb,
                    was grossly caricatured, if not libeled. Upon the character of Joseph A. Wright,
                    later governor, 
                        United States
                     senator and 
                        United States
                     minister to Prussia, was put a wholly uncalled for imputation.
                    Hall's criticisms against the camp-meetings are severe. They are
                    caricatured in a relentless manner with no expressions of sympathy with the
                    people, nor their religious emotion, to mitigate the bitterness. His style is
                    not unlike that of a theological controversialist 
                  
                     66 See note 70.
               
                     of that age. Roosevelt truthfully describes
                    in a sympathetic manner all of the scenes and conduct caricatured by Hall, but
                    in a kindly spirit: 
                        But though this might seem distasteful to an observer of education and
                            self-restraint, it thrilled the heart of the rude and simple
                            backwoodsman and reached him as he could not possibly have been reached
                            in any other manner. On the whole there was an immense gain for good.
                            The people received a new light and were given a sense of moral
                            responsibility such as they had not previously possessed.67
                  
                    
            
            Against such unfair treatment of irresponsible critics, Roosevelt's
                    virtues: 
                        Plead like angels trumpet-tongued
                     with the descendants of the men of the "Western
                    Waters."
            The descriptions of early life and events in Indiana in the New
                        Purchase are many of them very delightful. The daily life and
                    experiences of men and women in their work, in the woods, their travels, and in
                    their home life, described by Hall as he saw it, will always remain an
                    interesting and truthful picture of the pioneer age of Indiana that has passed.
                    It cannot be denied, however, that his view point of the people is that of a
                    leading actor in the play of Hoosier life, where he failed to succeed, and he
                    makes no effort to disguise his bitterness as a bad loser.
            Strictures in these pages upon the man east of the Alleghenies and north of the
                    Potomac are only intended for that class of people who have shown contempt for
                    western people and western manners. The westerners have been misunderstood by
                        such.68 There were from the beginning tactful and
                    liberal-minded Yankees and New Yorkers who adjusted perfectly to pioneer life
                    and were among the most useful citizens. Some of them are mentioned among the
                    early leaders with whom the English mingled on their arrival in the wilderness.
                    Some of them have furnished the best record now existing of the Hoosier
                    pioneers. Until after the public 
                  
                     67
                            Winning of the West (The Men of the Western Waters),
                            IV, 249.
                  
                     68 Crothers makes this clear in his comments on
                            this class, including no less a person than James Russell Lowell, who
                            calls the westerner "The Western Goth"—The Pardoner's Wallet—Land of the free
                                and charitable air—169.
               
                     school system of Indiana was established,
                    this class was the chief reliance of the city of 
                        Evansville
                     for teachers.
            Hall was wrecked on the shoals which even today confronts every eastern man who
                    for the first time comes west as a minister or teacher among western
                    people—shoals which a tactless and narrowminded man cannot
                    successfully navigate.
            Roosevelt truly says: 
                        The opinion of any mere passer through a country is always less valuable
                            than of an Intelligent man who dwells and works among the people and who
                            possesses both insight and sympathy.69
                  
                    
            
            Such a writer was Judge James Hall, a Philadelphian, educated to the bar, who
                    served in the army, settled at 
                        Shawneetown
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , in 1820. He was circuit judge during which he spent half his time
                    on horseback traveling the circuit across the State and was in close touch with
                    the whole people. Later he was treasurer of the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , edited a magazine and wrote a number of interesting books on
                    western life.70 He was a leading man in the State, of his
                    time. With a knowledge of these people among whom he spent his life and
                    succeeded, he has given a fair, truthful and charming sketch of their character,
                    free from the blemish of caricaturists, who have done so much to prejudice the
                    people east of Indiana against the early Hoosiers. Frequently his description of
                    the rustic class is just as vivid as is that found in the New
                        Purchase or The Hoosier School Master, but it is
                    given in a kindly spirit.
            Isaac Reid, a Presbyterian missionary, was pastor for a year of a 
                        New Albany
                     church in 1818, and for about ten years later lived in southern
                    Indiana and had every opportunity of knowing and knew the people as well as any
                    man of his time. His impartial and manifestly truthful descriptions of the
                    intelligent and cultured class of Hoosiers, places them on an equality with
                    those of any section in the old Northwest.71
            
            Birkbeck and George Flower lived among and studied 
                  
                     69
                            Winning of the West. Pt. 4, Ch. 1, 29.
                  
                     70 His best descriptions of people of this section
                            are found in his Romance of Western History or Sketches of
                                History, Life and Manners of the West.
                  
                  
                     71
                            Indiana as seen by Early Travelers—Lindley,
                            473–497. See also Caleb Atwater Id. 530,
                            and Charles E. Coffin, Id. 533.
               
                     these sturdy pioneers of the wilderness and
                    with other friendly travelers and writers of that time, give many illustrations
                    of the high traits of manhood, intelligence, independence, and good qualities
                    shown by them under circumstances of the severe hardships of their lives. They
                    place them above the common people of Europe and to some extent foretell the
                    character of the coming natives of the west.
            All this was accessible to Eggleston and Baynard Rush Hall. It is not believed
                    that it was intentionally suppressed by them, but it was not to their purpose
                    nor within their viewpoint. Under the guise of fiction or fictitious
                    surroundings, writers without restraint, or any seeming sense of responsibility
                    for consequences, have taken unfair liberties with society, sometimes with an
                    intent inconsistent with fairness and justice, with sarcasm and ridicule without
                    proper and fair discrimination in favor of the best. We refer to moral
                    responsibility. The doctrine of legal responsibility for libel protects
                    individuals from attacks of this kind whether open or covert.
            Very recently a leading western publishing house, which issued a novel, was
                    surprised with a libel suit in 
                        New York
                    , upon the charge that under a fictitious name the author had
                    lampooned a 
                        New York
                     judge against whom he had a grievance, and on a trial the jury gave
                    the plaintiff a verdict of thirty-five thousand dollars damages against the
                    publisher.
            Such material has been misleading and has furnished the man of the east the
                    opportunity of exercising the undue and offensive familiarity of the elder to
                    the younger brother in the west. There should be yet those, while a few of the
                    children of those pioneers live, who have spent their youth among them, and who
                    were in sympathy with them during their lives, who shall describe them, in truth
                    and justice and kindness, without the intrusion of descriptions of a lower and
                    disgusting class of humanity, to unfairly detract from a truthful picture. An
                    excellent foundation for this is found in a recent magazine article, entitled
                    "The Pioneer Aristocracy."72 It is not
                    fiction, it deals with facts. Very many 
                  
                     72 Dr. Logan Esary. Indiana Magazine
                                of History, Sept. 1918.
               
                     of them, furnishing a truthful picture of
                    the life of the Hoosier pioneer. It is a normal and sane-minded description of a
                    society which deserves the fairest and best treatment.
            It is of the greatest importance that among the young people of Indiana there
                    should be fostered a State pride, already existing with many people, not
                    inferior to that to be found in any American commonwealth. They should be taught
                    the beautiful, the true and the good in its history of which there is so much,
                    rather than so great over-emphasis of the husks that are to be found in the
                    history of the pioneers of any of the States.
            Roosevelt's chapters on the Backwoodsmen of the Alleghenies and on the
                    Men of the Western Waters contain a wealth of historical facts and descriptions
                    of the traits of the native pioneer. His appreciative sympathy with the
                    frontiersman has enabled him to furnish this as no other man has done. This has
                    been supplemented by the work of Dr. Frederick Turner, who has been concerned
                    with the reactive influences of the central west upon the east, with the
                    development of institutions, and the later history of events in which he has
                    been the best interpreter of the life of the people of this section of the time
                    of which we write.
            There were also men, a few of whom have been mentioned, living on the north side
                    of the river at that time capable of giving fair, friendly and discriminating
                    sketches of the men and women with whom they lived and who knew the sources of
                    population out of which that composite society was formed, and who have left
                    such a record.
            These, with other writers, with the testimony of people still living who
                    personally knew many of the men and women who were pioneers in the period
                    mentioned, furnish a key to a fair and impartial history of the life and
                    character of the Hoosier aristocracy yet to be written.
            NEIGHBORS
                    OP LINCOLN
            
            It is a coincidence that when Abraham Lincoln came to Indiana in the summer ef
                    1816, a boy of seven years of age, he located in 
                        Perry county
                    , then less than a mile from the line  of 
                        Warrick county
                    , in which was then living Joseph Lane, who came from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1816.73 Fourteen years later, Lincoln, then
                    twenty-one years old, moved to 
                        Illinois
                    . Still later, Joseph Lane moved to 
                        Oregon
                    . In 1860, when the Lincoln and Hamlin Presidential ticket was
                    elected, Joseph Lane was a candidate for Vice-President on the opposing ticket
                    of Breckenridge and Lane.74 It is generally assumed that 
                        Lincoln
                     first came to 
                        Spencer county
                    , a river county, which adjoins 
                        Warrick county
                     on the east, but 
                        Spencer county
                     was not created until the act of the legislature of January 10,
                    1818, was passed.75
                    
                        Warrick county
                    , when created out of 
                        Knox county
                    , March 9, 1813, extended from the Wabash river
                    to 
                        Harrison county
                    .76 Nicolay and Hay77 show
                    an intimacy, with intermarriages, between the Boones and Lincolns of an early
                    time, and that the grandfather of President Lincoln followed Daniel Boone to 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is also true that the Lincolns, uncle and cousins of Abraham
                    Lincoln, followed Squire Boone, brother of Daniel Boone, to 
                        Harrison county
                    , Indiana,78 and Thomas Lincoln, while following
                    his brother to Indiana, settled within twenty miles of Ratliff Boone, of
                    Boonville, 
                        Warrick county
                    , who had lived in Indiana territory since 1809 and who represented 
                        Spencer county
                     in congress, while the Lincolns lived there. Mr. J. Ed. Murr was
                    reared near the Lincolns as neighbors in 
                        Harrison county
                    .
            
               
                  73 Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People, 76.
               
                  74 See note 43.
               
                  75
                        History of 
                        Warrick,
                                    Spencer
                      and
                            Perry Counties, 277.
               
                  76
                        Id., 36.
               
                  77
                        Life of Lincoln, V. I, p. 4.
               
                  78 Squire Boone settled in 
                            Harrison county
                         in 1802 and there Daniel Boone frequently visited and hunted,
                        Wm. H. Roose, Indiana's Birthplace—History
                            of 
                                Harrison County
                            
                  , p. 7. Ratliff Boone, congressman of the Lincolns, as
                        well as of the people of the English settlement, when Abraham Lincoln was
                        twenty and twenty-one years old and earlier, was a man of considerable
                        education, but moved to 
                            Missouri
                         late in the 30's and died there in the 40's.
                        He was undoubtedly very familiar with his constituents, the Wheelers,
                        Hillyards, Hornbrooks, Ingles, Maid-lows and others, who had brought books
                        from 
                            England
                        , as well as the Lincolns and it is probable that Abraham
                        Lincoln learned of the fact; whether he availed himself of the opportunity
                        to read any of such books, history is silent. The Wheelers, Hillyards,
                        Hornbrooks, Maidlows and Ingles were not living when the comparatively
                        limited inquiries at a late date were made among Lincoln's
                        acquaintances in 
                            Spencer county
                        . A few of them, only, lived until Lincoln became President, and
                        if any of the persons mentioned ever referred to his residence in
                        southwestern Indiana so close to the settlement there is no one now living
                        who heard and remembers it.
            
            
            When Saunders Hornbrook, the original pioneer of the English settlement, located
                    upon his choice in the wilderness in October or November, 1817, it was forty
                    miles west of the farm of Thomas Lincoln, the location now occupied by 
                        Lincoln City
                     in 
                        Spencer county
                    .
            In 1825, one of the pioneers elsewhere mentioned, in the eastern border of the
                    settlement in 
                        Campbell
                     township, 
                        Warrick county
                    , about twenty miles west of where Lincoln lived, was a magistrate
                    and later a lay judge and many years county commissioner in 
                        Warrick county
                    .
            Luke Grant, one of the settlement, built a mill at 
                        Millersburgh
                     in 182579 still nearer the Lincoln farm, and it
                    is not unlikely that Lincoln, who was born February 12, 1809, and was then
                    between 16 and 17 years of age, had dealings with or knew some of these
                    settlers. Certain it is that Lincoln acquired the habit of attending court at
                    Boonville, then and now the county seat of 
                        Warrick county
                    .80
            
            The leaders, of the Saundersville and Blue Grass locations (the latter about
                    thirty miles west of 
                        Lincoln City
                    ), from the period of 1818 to 1830, when Lincoln, twenty-one years
                    old, left Indiana, had a number of volumes of the classics of English poetry and
                    prose, and enjoyed the music and culture of old English life. There are still
                    living descendants of the English, old people, who learned their childhood
                    speech from men and women born in 
                        England
                    , more than one hundred years ago, from those who spoke the language
                    of 
                        England
                     in its purity, and who preserved in the wilderness its literature,
                    music, culture and religion, and delivered them to their children and
                    children's children. These old people, even yet in their childhood
                    memories, treasure the nursery rhymes, humor and family traditions of 
                        England
                    , the plaintive poetry of Tom Moore, Thomas Campbell and others,
                    commemorating the martyrs of the Irish Rebellion and deploring the loss of Irish
                    liberty, set to a sad music, as well as the martial strains of Scott and
                        Burns.81 These conditions mentioned in 
                  
                     79 Fortune, 
                        
                                    Warrick County
                                 Prominent People, 36.
                  
                     80 J. Ed. Murr, History of Lincoln, Indiana Magazine of History, June
                            1818–150–154–159–160;
                            Lamon's Life of Lincoln, 67.
                  
                     81
                            King Alcohol Dethroned, by Rev. F. C. Iglehart, D. D.,
                            71. This author, who refers to these memories, is a representative of
                            three of the pioneer families
               
                     the British settlement were probably nearer
                    to the Lincoln location than any similar opportunity in the wilderness.
                    Lincoln's nature craved books. He traveled on foot long distances to
                    get them. He was a frequent visitor of the Breckenridge home near Boonville to
                    read and borrow law books.82
            
            The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Weekly Gazette was published at 
                        Evansville
                     from 1821 to 1825, inclusive, and it published legal and other
                    court notices for 
                  Spencer,
                            Warrick
                and all adjoining
                    counties. It was the only newspaper in the section outside of 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    , and contained much news of public interest and matters local in
                    the congressional district, which included 
                        Spencer county
                    , where Lincoln lived at the age of 16 and over. Its election
                    returns were gathered and published with noteworthy enterprise and embraced
                    outside counties.
            There were published in 1820 to 1830 weekly newspapers in 
                        Evansville
                    ,83
                    
                        New Harmony
                    ,84
                    
                        Vincennes
                    ,85 and Corydon86, the files
                    of which are now accessible, perhaps for other periods, though complete files
                    are not preserved. During all that period 
                        Spencer county
                     was in the same congressional district with 
                  Evansville, Princeton
                and 
                        New Harmony
                    , much of the time represented in congress by Ratliff Boone, who
                        
                  in the first British settlement in Indiana, and was born in the
                            eastern edge of it in 1845. His mother was born in 
                                Somersham
                            , the town where Faux lived, and as a child five years old,
                            came with her widowed mother to her uncle John Ingle of Saundersville.
                            His father was born in 
                                Kentucky
                            . Both his father's parents were Tidewater
                            Marylanders. He was one of the native Hoosier ministers, not mentioned
                            among the names elsewhere referred to as of an earlier period. But the
                            same influences which created the first effective native ministry in
                            southwestern Indiana under Parrett and Wheeler, undoubtedly reached him
                            in his home life. He knew and heard preach both Parrett and Wheeler in
                            their later life. He was chosen as a platform orator and temperance
                            debater, from among the 
                                New York
                             ministers, after a dramatic and successful answer to Mr.
                            Jerome, attorney for the brewers and liquor dealers in a hearing before
                            the Temperance Committee of the 
                                New York
                             legislature in a large hall in 
                                Albany
                             and for over ten years acted as superintendent of the
                            Anti-Saloon League of greater 
                                New York
                            . Few, if any, have performed greater service in that cause.
                            At the close of a long and successful career as minister, lecturer,
                            writer and temperance leader, he published, under a prophetic title, at
                            the opportune moment, the book referred to, which is authority upon the
                            facts in the history of the liquor traffic.
                  
                     82 Murr's Lincoln, Ind. Mag.
                                Hist., June, 1918, p. 159.
                  
                     83
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette 1821 to 1825 inclusive.
                  
                     84
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette 1825 to 1828; N. H. Disseminator 1828–1829; N. H. and 
                                Nashoba
                            
                            Gazette 1828–1831.
                  
                     85
                            Western Sun & general Advertiser 1819 to 1830
                            and later.
                  
                     86
                            Indiana Sentinel and Advertiser
                        1820–1821.
               
                     lived only about twenty miles from Lincoln. 
                        Boone
                     was Lincoln's congressman the last two years the latter
                    lived in Indiana as well as formerly. There was a direct public road from 
                        Princeton
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                    , one from 
                        Evansville
                     to Boonville and from 
                        Evansville
                     through Saundersville to 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , also to 
                        New Harmony
                    , and one from Boonville through Saundersville to 
                        New Harmony
                    . The latter town, as its newspapers show, was the center of
                    literary culture of respectable character compared with the best culture of that
                    age, anywhere. Very early a road ran from Corydon to 
                        Evansville
                    , passing by Lincoln's farm through what is now known as
                        Gentryville.87
            
            Easy and frequent communication by river existed from all the points named
                    (except 
                        Princeton
                     and Corydon) to and from 
                  Troy, Rockport
                and Anderson creek, where the Lincolns are
                    frequently found during this period. A stage line running on schedule time
                    between 
                  Evansville, Princeton
                and 
                        Vincennes
                    , making one trip a week, was established and first put in operation
                    in the summer of 1824.88 This continued till a railroad was
                    put in operation nearly thirty years later.
            Abraham Lincoln, once a year or oftener, went to 
                        Princeton
                     to Col. James Evans for carding of wool. Evans' brother,
                    Gen. Robert M. Evans, was for several years a tavern keeper and assistant
                    postmaster at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the year 1827 and later.89 General Evans was
                    an interesting character and figured much in the newspapers in
                            
                  Evansville, New Harmony
                and 
                        Vincennes
                    , and it is altogether probable that his brother, the wool carder at 
                        Princeton
                    , had the newspapers of the day, for so eager an inquirer for
                    "news" and a customer as Lincoln is shown during that period
                    to have been.90 Evans was enterprising enough to advertise
                    his wool carding machine in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Gazette,91 which, no doubt, circulated in
                    the Lincoln neighborhood.
            Corydon, from 1816 to 1825, the capital of the State, about 
                  
                     87 Lamon's Lincoln, 24.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, July 14, 1824. Full details of this
                            interesting event are advertised.
                  
                     89
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette, Feb. 14, 1827.
                  
                     90 Murr's "History of
                            Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
                  
                     91
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, June 20, 1823.
               
                     fifty-five miles distant from the lincoln
                    farm, was near the center of the large family of Lincoln uncles and cousins.92 The few details preserved of Lincoln's early
                    life, up to manhood, and his character as the world later knew him, show him to
                    have been too aggressive and earnest in search for knowledge of the outside
                    world to have been ignorant of all of these sources of information, which for
                    that age were fairly easy of access to him, without doubt. Many of the
                    interesting facts of his life in Indiana have been wholly lost to history. That
                    no record is preserved of his knowledge obtained from any of these sources may
                    be accounted for in the death of the people of that time, capable of
                    appreciating its importance, before Lincoln became famous, or that the facts
                    involved may have escaped inquiry later, or that many of the illiterate of his
                    neighbors may not have known or remembered such facts.
            It is easier to believe this than that Abraham Lincoln remained ignorant of all
                    these avenues of information till after he was 21 years old. Miss Robey, to whom
                    Lincoln paid special attention as a young woman, who later married Allen Gentry,
                    said of Lincoln: "He was better read than the world knows or is likely
                    to know exactly."93 At 19, Lincoln read every book
                    he could find.94 Tarbell gives the usual short list of books
                    which the scant information of his life in Indiana furnishes, and says:
                    "These are the chief ones we know about. ∗ ∗
                    ∗ beside these he borrowed many other books. ∗
                    ∗ ∗ He once told a friend that he read through every book
                    he had ever heard of in that country, for a circuit of fifty miles."95 John T. Richards, president of the 
                        Chicago
                     Bar Association, reviews the scant evidence on this subject from a
                    lawyer's standpoint, and says that it is unfortunate that beyond a
                    general statement that while a youth in Indiana, Lincoln read the Bible, Shakespeare, Pilgrim's Progress and Weems'
                        Life of 
                            Washington
                        
                and such other books as he could borrow, there is no
                    evidence available as to the 
                  
                     92 Murr's "History of
                            Lincoln," Ind. Mag. of History, Dec. 1917, p.
                            307.
                  
                     93 Ward H. Lamon, Life of
                            Lincoln 70, Herndon, Vol. I, 39.
                  
                     94 Nicolay & Hay, V. I, p. 42.
                  
                     95
                            Life of Lincoln, V. I, p. 29.
               
                     books which aided in the development of his
                    mind up to the time when he removed to 
                        Illinois
                    ; and in referring to Lincoln as an educated man, says that his
                    early speeches and writings show a marked familiarity with history and knowledge
                    of the English language.96 Arnold says Lincoln read
                    Burns' poems and other books till he was familiar with them.97 One of the children of the first generation born in the
                    English settlement speaks of Burns' Poems as among
                    his childhood memories, heirlooms from English homelife, "the voice of
                    Burns across the sea."98
            
            THE SPIRIT
                    OF
                    THE OHIO VALLEY
            
            Our national history has for the most part been written by 
                        New England
                     men, but from a sectional viewpoint, which over-estimated 
                        Puritan
                     influence in the development of national character.99 When we sing "My Country ‘Tis of Thee"
                    the country that is visualized is very small. The author of the hymn was a 
                        New England
                     clergyman and naturally enough described 
                        New England
                     and called it America. It is a land of rocks and rills and woods,
                    and the hills are templed in 
                        Puritan
                     fashion by white meeting houses; for the early New Englander, like
                    erring 
                        Israel
                     of old, loved to worship on the high places. Over it all is one
                    great tradition: "It is the land of the Pilgrim's
                        pride."100
            
            The American spirit—the traits that have come to be recognized as the
                    most characteristic—was developed in the new commonwealths that
                    sprang into life beyond the seaboard.101
            
            
               
                  96
                        Abraham Lincoln, Lawyer and Statesman, P. 1–3.
               
                  97
                        Life of Lincoln 21.
               
                  98 See note 81. An editorial obituary notice of the 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier July 28, 1882, of the death of Mrs. Ann Cowle
                        Iglehart, wife of Asa Iglehart, granddaughter of John Ingle of 
                            Somersham
                        , says: "The family of which Mrs. Iglehart came were
                        not lacking in literary taste, and in that early" day, when a book
                        was unknown to most of the homes of that neighborhood, the family of Mark
                        Wheeler, her stepfather, was supplied with a library. The children of the
                        family, contrary to the other families of that time, spent their long winter
                        evenings reading standard English works."
               
                  99 Woodrow Wilson, The course of American
                            History (mere literautre), 218.
               
                  100 Samuel McChord Crothers, The
                            Pardoners Wallet—The land of the large and charitable
                        air, 148. This brilliant writer Has actually found a true American
                        instinct in old Mirandy Means, who, he says, "formulated the wisdom
                        of the pioneer" who pre-empted more land than he could cultivate,
                            Id. 171.
               
                  101 Frederick Turner, Rise of the New
                            West (1820–1830), 68.
            
            
            The Atlantic frontier had to work upon European germs. Moving westward each new
                    frontier was more and more American at the start; and soon the older communities
                    were reacted upon wholesomely by the simplicity and democracy of the west. These
                    considerations give the key to the meaning of the west in American history.102 Says Frederick G.
            
               
                  102 William Mason West, History of the
                            American People, 270.
            
            Turner: 
                        American social development has been continually beginning over again on
                            the frontier. This perennial rebirth, this fluidity of American life,
                            this expansion westward with its new opportunities, this contnuous touch
                            with the simplicity of primitive society, furnish the forces dominating
                            American character. ∗ ∗ ∗ The frontier
                            is the line of most rapid and effective Americanization.
                    
            
            The west at bottom is a form of society rather than area. The problem of the west
                    is nothing less than the problem of American development. Today the old
                    Northwest is the keystone to the American commonwealth.103
            
            Mr. West states that Dr. Turner is the first true interpreter of the frontier in
                    our history.104 This author (Turner), with the advantage of
                    the most complete collection of materials upon the west which has ever been
                    brought together—The Library of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society105, has in his recent
                    writings given to the people of the States of the central west, embracing the
                    location and period we are here considering, their ancestry, emigration and the
                    establishment by them of the true non-sectional American Democracy, a dignity
                    and importance never recognized before.106
            
            Mr. Murr's History, in the fullest detail, discusses the frontier life
                    of Abraham Lincoln in Indiana, from the age of 7 to 21, from 1816 to 1830,
                    during which period he lived in 
                  
                     103 Turner, Atlantic Monthly, V.
                            78, p. 289, V. 79, p. 433.
                  
                     104 West, History of the American
                                People, 270—note.
                  
                     105 Albert Bushnell Hart, Editorial Preface to
                            Turner's Rise of the New West.
                  
                  
                     106 Frederick G. Turner. "The
                            Significance of the Frontier," in American History
                                Report 1893, American Historical Association 199.
                            "Contributions of the West to American Democracy," Atlantic Monthly, Vol. 91, p. 83. "The Middle
                            West," International Monthly, IV, 794.
                            "Problem of the West," Atlantic
                            Monthly, Vol. 78, p. 289. "Dominant Forces in Western
                            Life," Atlantic 79, 438. Rise of
                                the New West (The American Nation History), edited A. B.
                        Hart.
               
                     Indiana, and justly claims that his
                    character was moulded and developed by his Hoosier surroundings. He claims that
                    the boy was father to the man. In an address to an Indiana regiment of Civil war
                    soldiers, President Lincoln said: "I was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , raised in Indiana, and now live in 
                        Illinois
                    ."
            Edward Eggleston, in his biography elsewhere mentioned, gives the greatest
                    importance to the "formative influences" of his youth while
                    living in Southern Indiana, on his career as an author, in which he says he was
                    only drawing on the resources which the very peculiar circumstances of his life
                    had put at his disposal. He adds: "Is it Herder who says, my whole life
                    is but the interpretation of the oracles of my childhood?"107
            
            The Lincoln type, in figure, movement, features, facial make-up, simplicity of
                    speech and thought, gravity of countenance, and integrity and truthfulness of
                    life, as it stands accredited by the vast number of writers on Lincoln, is in a
                    substantial degree a Hoosier type in southern Indiana today. It may be still
                    found in the judge on the bench, the lawyer at the bar, the preacher in the
                    pulpit, and others descended from pioneer stock who are forceful and intelligent
                    leaders of the common people.108 It should be remembered
                    that previous to 1830 the population of the farmer pioneers of southern Indiana
                    who did not come from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the south, were the exceptions. Turner correctly says that it
                    is the southern element today which differentiates Indiana from
                            
                  Ohio, Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Michigan
                    , her sister states of the old Northwest. The central west, like the
                    southwest, took its early impress from the central Atlantic coast States of
                            
                  New York, New Jersey
                and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Until the invention of the cotton gin, when cotton plantations
                    made slave 
                  
                     107
                            Forum, X, 290.
                  
                     108 An old Civil war soldier living in 
                                Illinois
                             knew Lincoln as a surveyor in 
                                Illinois
                             and heard the Lincoln-Douglas debate at 
                                Freeport
                            . After hearing Rev. J. E. Murr deliver an address on
                            Lincoln, he came to him and said: "I hope you won't
                            mind my saying that you, of all men I ever met, remind me most of
                            Lincoln at 35 to 40. Tour stature is not as great but your face, manner
                            and speech and the little ways you have carry me back to
                            Lincoln." Mr. Murr was born in Corydon, of 
                                Kentucky
                             parentage, and is now pastor of Bayard Park M. E. Church, a
                            prominent church in 
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     labor very profitable, the west, lying
                    north of the Ohio river, and southwest were much alike,109 and the resemblance and sympathy between the people of
                    those sections are strong today.
            It was only after the institution of slavery settled firmly and generally upon
                    the south that the people of the country north of the Ohio
                    river became distinctly separate. Lincoln came to Indiana in 1816,
                    the year of its admission as a State, with a provision in its constitution
                    against slavery. No one can doubt the influence upon Lincoln, the child and
                    young man, in his life upon the free soil of Indiana. Eggleston gives strong
                    testimony on this point in his biographical sketch110 when
                    he describes slavery in its mildest form among his father people's
                    people in 
                        Virginia
                    , and after a year's residence there at the age of 16, on
                    his return to Indiana, he later says: 
                        From the time of my visit to 
                                Virginia
                             I counted myself an Abolitionist.
                    
            
            The influence and necessities of slavery in the south required control of the
                    press and in a degree the freedom of speech. Brander Mathews has shown, upon no
                    less authority than Thomas Nelson Page and Prof. William P. Trent, in his
                    biography of William Gilmore Sims, that this restraint was one of the chief
                    causes which prevented the growth of a southern literature before the Civil
                        war.111 Free land and free institutions were the hope of
                    the poor as well as more thrifty white people, which brought them across the
                        Ohio river. After 
                        Kentucky
                     had become well settled, land was more expensive and slavery had
                    become a permanent institution.
            It was destined that the Apostle of Freedom was to come of this class, and to be
                    removed from the heavy weight with which slavery bore upon the poor whites. Out
                    of the spirit of American democracy came the ideal now to direct the destinies
                        
                  
                     109 Albert Bushnell Hart, Editorial introduction
                            to Turner's Rise of the New West, XIV, Id. p. 75–92, 45; F. G. Turner,
                            "Dominant Forces in Western Life," Atlantic, 79, 438; "The Signicance of the Frontier in
                            American History," Am. Hist. Assn. R. 1893,
                            p. 220; Roosevelt, Winning the West, Ch. Men of the
                            Western Waters.
                  
                     110
                            Forum, X, 288.
                  
                     111 Brander Mathews, Aspects of
                                Fiction—Two Studies of the South.
                  
               
                     of the new British settlers and their
                    Hoosier neighbors, one of whom was Abraham Lincoln. The general British
                    emigration, of which the 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana colonies were part, began when Indiana became a State
                    in 1816 with a constitution prohibiting slavery. It was no accident that in that
                    year Thomas and Nancy Hanks Lincoln, with the boy Abraham, came from a slave
                    State to the free soil and free institutions of Indiana and settled in the
                    wilderness of southwestern Indiana. The ideals operating on Lincoln in his youth
                    while he was a southern Indiana Hoosier at the time in the location we are
                    considering, as compared with those then existing in slave territory, are thus
                    stated by Turner:112
                    
                        The natural democratic tendencies that had earlier shown themselves in
                            the Gulf States were destroyed, however, by the spread of cotton culture
                            and the development of great plantations in that region. What had been
                            typical of the democracy of the Revolutionary frontier and of the
                            frontier of Andrew Jackson was now to be seen in the States between the 
                                Ohio
                             and the 
                                Mississippi
                            . As Andrew Jackson is the typical democrat of the former
                            region, so Abraham Lincoln is the very embodiment of the pioneer period
                            of the old northwest. Indeed, he is the embodiment of the democracy of
                            the west.
                        The pioneer life from which Lincoln came differed in important respects
                            from the frontier democracy typified by Andrew Jackson.
                            Jackson's democracy was contentious, individualistic, and it
                            sought the ideal of local self-government and expansion. Lincoln
                            represents rather the pioneer folk who entered the forest of the great
                            northwest to chop out a home, to build up their fortunes in the midst of
                            a continually ascending industrial movement. In the democracy of the
                            southwest, industrial development and city life were only minor factors,
                            but to the democracy of the northwest they were its very life. To widen
                            the area of the clearing, to contend with one another for the mastery of
                            the industrial resources of 
                        
                                    
                              112 "Contributions of the West
                                        to American Democracy," Atlantic
                                            Monthly, XCI, 89.
                                    Descriptions of life in southern Indiana by many of the
                                        biographers of Lincoln, including: Tarbell, I, p. 47,
                                        Nicolay & Hay, I, Ch. 2, are given as the background
                                        to the picture of a great character, of world-wide interest,
                                        and are too comprehensive and open too wide a field for the
                                        present inquiry; however, a field well worthy of study in
                                        connection with an inquiry into the character of the early
                                        farmer pioneers in the wilderness. John Hay was born at 
                                            Salem
                                        , Ind., Oct. 8, 1838, less than a year after the
                                        birth of Edward Eggleston at 
                                            Vevay
                                        , Dec. 10, 1837, not over 60 miles distant. None
                                        of these writers have interpreted the meaning of life in the
                                        old Northwest with the vision of Dr. Turner, whose works
                                        deal with the period during which Lincoln lived in
                                        southwestern Indiana, from 1816 to 1830, which covers the
                                        time as well as the territory embraced In the present
                                        inquiry.
                                
                     
                             the rich provinces, to straggle for
                            a place in the ascending movement of society, to transmit to
                            one's offspring the chance for education, for industrial
                            betterment, for the rise in life which the hardships of the pioneer
                            existence denied to the pioneer himself, these were some of the ideals
                            of the region to which Lincoln came. The men were commonwealth builders,
                            industry builders. Whereas the type of hero in the southwest was
                            militant, in the northwest he was industrial. It was in the midst of
                            these "plain people," as he loved to call them, that
                            Lincoln grew to manhood. As Emerson says: "He is the true
                            history of the American people in his time." The years of his
                            early life were the years when the democracy of the northwest came into
                            struggle with the institution of slavery that threatened to forbid the
                            expansion of the democratic pioneer life in the west.
                    
            
            The ideal of the west was its emphasis upon the worth and possibilities of the
                    common man, of its belief in the right of every man to rise to the full measure
                    of his own nature, under conditions of social mobility. Western democracy was no
                    theorist's dream. It came stark and strong and full of life from the
                    American forest.113 The westerner has been the type and
                    master of our national life.114 The comparatively recent
                    publication and reprint with notes by Dr. Thwaites of the writings of early
                    western travelers in thirty-odd volumes are treated by Dr. Turner in a review115 as a sign of the interest that is aroused in western
                    history, and an indication that the region this side of the Allegheny mountains
                    has reached the stage that comes to every people, when in the pride of
                    achievement it turns to survey the records of its past.
            The Hoosier has come into his own. He demands a fair interpretation of those
                    records, and is proud of them. He has no patience with apologists at home, who
                    have been misled by unfair interpretation, nor with the condescending criticisms
                    of certain people of other States. No intelligent and fair-minded person will
                    judge the character of a whole people in pioneer Indiana at the beginning of the
                    State by the careless or malicious sketches of the lowest class of people
                    correctly described by Dr. Turner as "the scum that the waves of
                    advancing civilization bore before them."116
            
            
               
                  113 Frederick G. Turner, Rise of the New
                            West, 1819–1829, 86.
               
                  114 Woodrow Wilson, The Course of
                            American History (mere literature), 218.
               
                  115
                        The Dial, XXXVII, 298.
               
                  116 "The Significance of the Frontier in
                        American History," American History Association
                        R., 1893, 223 note.
            
            
            PIONEER LIFE
            
            The severity of pioneer life, with its hard labor, the isolation of families,
                    want of good roads in winter, the limited opportunity for gathering together of
                    people at public entertainments and Sunday religious services, made social life
                    and entertainment at a very early day, especially for women and children, very
                    limited. In this respect the life of the settlers of the English settlement was
                    much in common with the life of the native pioneers with whom they mingled.
                    Visiting was common among young people and relatives. For a young man to call
                    upon a young lady meant often for him to ride horseback five or ten miles, even
                    farther. Saturday afternoons were generally recognized as a time for recreation.
                    At the neighborhood store of evenings and particularly Saturday afternoons, the
                    men, young and old, gathered in groups for sociability and to barter; money was
                    scarce and most of the trade, and purchases as well, were exchanges of goods at
                    market prices.
            At these gatherings stories were told and jokes perpetrated. Rifle practice,
                    testing the best skill of the hunter, was a popular entertainment. When men or
                    boys went to the store or visiting, they usually carried a gun, on the
                    probability of seeing a deer or other game or wild animal.
            At corn shuckings and log rollings a general good time, with feasting, dancing
                    and drinking, followed. If a neighbor was sick and unable to cut his firewood,
                    or a widow had no one to do that work for her, neighbors would gather with their
                    axes and cut a good pile of wood and carry or haul it to the house. Such an
                    occasion was generally followed by a general social entertainment. The drinking
                    habit, while abused here as elsewhere by persons who indulged to excess, was a
                    very common one, and public opinion was tolerant of it. Faux expresses
                    throughout his book the highest Christion sentiment, no doubt sincerely. He is
                    merciless in his criticisms generally, and especially of the poor lodging
                    accommodations for travelers at taverns and in private houses. He occasionally
                    mentions in mitigation of the many faults that good whiskey or brandy was
                    produced. Mr. Hornbrook  records the
                    well-known fact that when on occasions the preacher arrived at the house to
                    conduct religious services there, and was tired and needed a stimulant, he did
                    not hesitate to set out the decanter of brandy, which was welcome. As a rule,
                    people drank in moderation. The Erskines tried to raise a log cabin without free
                    whiskey, but most reluctantly were compelled to yield the point. Whiskey was
                    five cents a glass, and a glass full at the store was often divided up among a
                    number of persons. Fifteen or twenty cents would buy a small jug full. Excitable
                    or quarrelsome persons under the influence of whiskey sometimes engaged in
                    brawls.
            If a fight reached the danger point in the matter of public peace or example or
                    safety, the grand jury frequently indicted one or both of the parties, who had
                    to plead guilty or stand a jury trial in the circuit court. The record of these
                    court trials, as well as of civil suits, where the names of the principals
                    involved, as well as the names of by-standers and witnesses, are endorsed upon
                    the indictment or found in the summons and subpoenas, has been one of the aids
                    in refreshing the memories of the oldest inhabitants, particularly Edward
                    Maidlow and James Erskine, who have assisted in restoring the faded pictures of
                    these early times.
            Negley's mill was a rendezvous for people of all classes from different
                    neighborhoods, who came to mill. There stood a substantial frame steam saw mill
                    and steam flour, corn and grist mill. Nearby the family lived, in a substantial
                    and commodious farm house. The Negley mill, which had been established and owned
                    by James Anthony (not Jonathan Anthony, as the historians record), was the best
                    equipped mill of its kind in southwestern Indiana for many years, and changed
                    hands when Negley bought it, about 1819, at a very considerable price. At the
                    earliest date animal power, alone, in a log house, was used, and the mill
                    supplied the country for many miles around. In a local history is given an
                    interesting description of the old days at Negley's mill and the social
                    life and entertainments there, which continued down for a generation. A trip to
                    the mill was often an excuse for young people of both sexes to go to the
                    business and social  center. The list of
                    patrons from the records of the owners of the mill includes many names from the
                    English settlement.117
            
            In 1825 Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., wrote to a friend in 
                        England
                     that they were compelled to manufacture their clothing, because of
                    the scarcity of specie, the women sometimes carding the cotton and wool, then
                    spinning, weaving and fashioning the doth into garments. Little time was left
                    for sociability, with the labors which the women had then to perform, and this
                    was substantially the condition in all the families of the settlement.
            In the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Gazette of June 29, 1825, are two notices of local interest,
                    showing the patriotic spirit of the people. One is a publication of a notice
                    signed by a committee on arrangements, in 
                        Evansville
                    , informing the public of a procession from the house of Daniel
                    Chute on the Fourth of July, to march to the courthouse and hear the address of
                    Dr. William P. Foster; after which the procession was to return to Mr.
                    Chute's house, where a dinner was to be "prepared for those
                    who were disposed to partake of it." Immediately following this notice,
                    of the same date, is the following: 
                        PUBLIC DINNER
                        A Public Dinner will be provided at the House of Samuel Scott in the
                            English Settlement to celebrate with becoming spirit the gorlous
                            independence of America. We give this public notice as many of our
                            neighbors complained last year they had not an opportunity of attending,
                            for want of timely information. It will be conducted on the same
                            principles as that of last year. Subscriptions will be received at
                            Samuel Scott's. The dinner will be on the table at one
                            o'clock.
                        R. Carlisle,
                        S. Scott,
                        J. Ingle,
                        C Potts,
                        J. Cawson,
                        S. Mansell.118
                  
                    
            
            This scrap shows that the "English Settlement" was well known
                    to the readers of the paper; that it aspired equally 
                  
                     117 Elliott, History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                     , 93, 96.
                  
                     118
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, June 18, 1825. Local news was so rare that
                            the editor in such matters usually used his editorial column.
               
                     with the village of 
                        Evansville
                     to recognize the Fourth of July with "becoming
                    spirit"; and that Samuel Scott and Richard Carlisle, prominent men, who
                    were on the ground before Hornbrook, the "Father of the
                    Settlement," came, and who came from 
                        England
                     by way of 
                        Virginia
                    , were recognized as leaders in the settlement.
            In 1822 Hornbrook, for social and mutual benefits, called the men of the
                    neighborhood together to meet at his house every Saturday afternoon, when they
                    had one or two papers on the subject of agriculture or any other topic of
                    general interest, which were followed by discussion. He writes that "it
                    was the intention to hold more general meetings the next year, for the county,
                    to a greater extent." Of course, there was no benefit or sociability
                    for the women in these meetings, but there had "come into the
                    settlement a number of good respectable English families within three miles,
                    which to some extent supplied that need."
            Hornbrook had been a manufacturer and contractor and business man of considerable
                    experience in the old country and as long as he lived, engaged in business and
                    matters of general interest in trade and manufacture in the settlement.
            Describing the situation of his family, which was much similar to those of John
                    Ingle, and the Maidlows, near neighbors, as well as of the Wheelers, Joseph and
                    Mark, the Erskines, Hillyards and others, six miles or farther distant
                    eastwardly, Hornbrook, in 1822, writes: 
                        For the first few years in our new home my family being large (ten
                            children), we did not feel the loneliness which smaller families
                            experienced in this new country, where one could not see farther than a
                            quarter of a mile, because of the dense woods in all directions. In a
                            short time the older ones married and settled near us, building their
                            cabins and clearing the land and extending our social needs.
                    
            
            He writes his old English friends: 
                        Our society here cannot be so select as with you, but we have as much
                            sincerity and friendship, but there is no time for visiting or idle
                            chitchat. Probably after a few years we may have some leisure, though
                            there are no servants to relieve the women of labor, so no time for five
                            o'clock tea with the ladies, as in 
                                Old England
                            , but we have no taxes—no tithes—no
                            excise laws—and perfect freedom of thought and worship.
                    
            
            
            The better element in the English settlement depended much on each other for
                    their social life and for aid in sickness and need, though scattered throughout
                    the country and in the new town of 
                        Evansville
                     were a number of well-to-do people among the better class of
                    natives from 
                  Kentucky,
                            Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York
               , and other Atlantic coast States. Ten or
                    twenty miles, even, did not prevent intimacy between congenial neighbors.
            The Ingles, Maidlows, Hornbrooks, Wheelers, Erskines, Hillyards, McJohnsons, and
                    others were the center of the circle of the settlement, and were the nucleus of
                    a social community, drawing to it others more remote, representing in the
                    generation then young, large families of men and women who spoke the English
                    language in its purity and preserved the best traditions of the social,
                    intellectual and moral life of 
                        England
                    .
            Faux says at the beginning there were no schools in the settlement, and
                    recommends to the English teachers a good opportunity at a good salary for that
                    time. The first advertisement in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Gazette of a teacher for pupils was by Andrew Erskine,119 in which he stated his terms and the character of his
                    school. He was an educated man, and a leading citizen in the county. A
                    description of educational opportunities in the twenties and the resorts of
                    ambitious people to overcome obstacles in that direction is later furnished by a
                    member of one of the pioneer families, then a youth:120
                    
                        In that new country, where there were no books, and newspapers were very
                            rare, opportunities for education were very poor indeed; but father and
                            mother, especially the latter, were anxious for the promotion and
                            education of their children. Stimulated by her precept, we all early
                            acquired a taste for books. We subscribed for weekly papers very early,
                            and supplied ourselves with what few school books could be obtained, and
                            went to school, a few months each winter in the improvised rude cabins,
                            which were called school-houses in those rude days. But, in fact, our
                            education was obtained more at home, from the scanty supply of books we
                            had, and from our application, and by stimulating each other. One of the
                            sources of 
                        
                           119
                                    
                                        Evansville
                                    
                                    Gazette, March 11, 1823.
                        
                           120
                                    History of 
                                            Vanderburgh County
                                        
                            (B. & F.), 355.
                     
                             education and stimulation was the
                            early Methodist preachers, who found their way as well to the wild woods
                            of 
                                Warrick county
                            , as everywhere in this country which has been reached by
                            civilization. They were generally tetter educated than most of the
                            people in the country then were, and they stimulated us to seek for
                            better educational opportunities; and though none of us ever went to
                            college we obtained all the education which was attainable in those
                            early days without going to college.
                    
            
            Gradually schools were established, but the terms were short; sometimes, not
                    always, competent teachers were found; among the leaders of the English
                    settlement, in the families of which were some older children who had received
                    some education in 
                        England
                    , and where the parents were educated people, there was a good
                    supply of English books and especial care was taken to furnish the best
                    substitute in the home for schools before they became effective elsewhere.
            As there had been no church built in this settlement, various leading settlers,
                    including Hornbrook, Ingle, Erskine, the Hillyards, and others, would invite a
                    minister whom any of them could get, to come to his house to hold services on
                    Sunday. If he could not get anyone to come, as they were, other than the
                    Wheelers, Joseph and Richard, and Parrett, few and far between, he would himself
                    read a sermon from some English book of sermons, and the reading was followed by
                    prayer and song service. There were at that early period eight or ten Unitarian
                    families in the neighborhood, who were sometimes called Schismatics or
                    Christians.
            True to frontier life west of the mountains as it existed at the time of which we
                    write, especially religious influences and development in this section, is the
                    account of Peter Cart-wright,121 a Methodist preacher of
                    national reputation, in later life. He was a striking character. He was without
                    education, but gifted with natural power of oratory, of undoubted sincerity and
                    piety, with qualities of leadership, including the element of fearless courage,
                    which a leader of the time required. Humorous incidents are told of his policing
                    his public religious meetings in 
                        Kentucky
                     to prevent rowdies from breaking them up. He had personally, as a
                    member of 
                  
                            121
                            Autobiography of Peter Cartwright.
                        
               
                     the Green River
                    district of the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference, established the 
                        St. Vincennes
                     circuit in 1808.122 This circuit included
                    southwestern Indiana.
            Rev. John Schrader, the circuit rider, as early as 1815123
                    traveled that circuit, embracing the entire Patoka river
                    valley south of the present line of the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     railroad, and extending from the Wabash river
                    eastwardly to and perhaps including 
                        Harrison county
                    .
            Rev. Joseph Wheeler and Robert Parrett knew Cartwright well. In their training
                    and education in 
                        England
                     they were free from the narrow limitations which the spirit of the
                    age in the frontier west then imposed upon the natives, and upon many of the
                    leaders born and reared among them. It seems now almost like fiction to read the
                    serious lament of Peter Cartwright,124 when in his old age,
                    a unique and celebrated character, with a long and successful career behind him,
                    he criticises an educated ministry, literary institutions and theological
                    institutes. He says: 
                        The Presbyterians and other Calvanistic branches of the Protestant church
                            used to contend for an educated ministry, for pews, for instrumental
                            music, for a congregational or stated salaried ministry; the illiterate
                            Methodist preachers actually set the world on fire (the American world
                            at least), while they were lighting their matches.
                    
            
            He condemns the Wesleyans in 
                        England
                     for the same reasons, insisting that such practices were a
                    departure from the teachings of John Wesley.
            Parrett and the Wheelers, who were Wesleyans in 
                        England
                    , had none of this spirit. Neither had the leaders of the settlement
                    any of the narrow or bigoted or rowdy spirit which to some extent prevailed in
                    various quarters among the natives of this section.
            For half a century in southern Indiana many of the pioneer preachers struggled in
                    a tragic and losing fight against the spirit of the age, which has at last
                    succeeded in that denomination, in its demand for an educated ministry.125
            
            
               
                  122
                        Autobiography of Peter Cartwright (1856), 131,
                        141–167.
               
                  123
                        History of 
                                Warrick County
                            
                   (1885), p. 124.
               
                  124
                        Biography of Peter Cartwright, p. 79.
               
                  125 For an illustration of that fight, upon the
                        entrance into the Indiana Conference of the M. E. Church, of the first
                        graduate of the first Methodist college of
            
            
            A thrilling flight of natural oratory was heard by the writer in an address by
                    Hayden Hays, an old, white-haired, superannuated preacher on the floor of the
                    Indiana conference nearly fifty years ago, discussing the transfers of ministers
                    from other conferences into the best pulpits of the conference, thus to some
                    extent shutting out of those pulpits the old leaders who had heroically spent
                    their lives in building up the civilization of the State.
            It was by the Rev. John Schrader, the circuit rider, that the first regular,
                    organized religious public services, of which local history has any record, were
                    held, in what is now known as 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , in Hugh McGary's double log warehouse. By him, in 1819,
                    arrangement was made at that meeting with the Wheelers and Parrett, Methodist
                    ministers, who resided in the settlement, to preach regularly, in his absence,
                    in 
                        Evansville
                    .126
            
            John Ingle, of Saundersville, though not a minister, like Hornbrook, led services
                    in his own house, and Faux records his reading a sermon and leading in prayer at
                    service on Sunday, attended by sixteen people.127 Also the
                    Wheelers, Erskines, Hillyards, Igleharts, and others did the same. The following
                    extract is taken from the minutes of the church board of Hillyard Methodist
                    Episcopal church: 
                        In the early part of the nineteenth century, when the surrounding country
                            was being opened up and settled by pioneer settlers from the mother
                            country and the east, came the desire to have some place to worship God,
                            according to their religious belief. So it was agreed by these early
                            pioneers to hold their meetings at the home of old Father Charles
                            McJohnson, whenever a preacher might be passing through the country. The
                            first who preached there was Joseph Tarkington,128
                            who used the text, "They shall go in and out and find
                            pasture." These meetings were held here occasionally until the
                            spring of 1824.
                        With the spring of 1824 came the organization of the so-called Blue Grass
                            society at the home of Mark Wheeler, who was for a time class 
                        the State, see introduction to the Autobiography
                                        of Rev. Joseph Tarkington by Rev. Thomas A. Goodwin, D.
                                    D. While in form an Introduction, it is in substance an
                                    autobiography of Dr. Goodwin, supplementing that of Mr.
                                    Tarkington, with most interesting and amusing descriptions of
                                    pioneer times and people in southern Indiana.
                        
                           126
                                    History of 
                                            Vanderburgh County
                                        
                            (B. & F.), 278.
                        
                           127 Thwaites, Early Western
                                        Travels, XI, 239, 285.
                        
                           128 See note 60.
                     
                             leader and at whose home the
                            meetings of the class and preaching services were held. At this time the
                            territory was in the 
                                Illinois
                             conference, 
                                Wabash
                             district, Patoka circuit. This circuit had thirty-two
                            appointments and was served by two preachers living at 
                                Princeton
                            . Each made a round every four weeks. The class meetings in
                            those days were held invariably after preaching services.
                        In 1827, three years after the organization, the meeting place of the
                            society was transferred to the home of William Hillyard, Sr., and
                            continued at this place until the year 1834, when the society built a
                            hewed log house 20 × 24 feet and covered it with clapboards.
                            The first seats were round poles, after a time these were replaced with
                            improved seats made by splitting small logs in the center, shaving off
                            the splinters with a drawing knife, boring holes in the bark side,
                            inserting sharpened pieces of timbers into these holes. These seats were
                            known as benches. This church had five windows, two on each side, and
                            one behind the pulpit. This building stood on a rise of ground near the
                            cemetery. The society continued to worship in this rude structure until
                            1851, when the second house, which is still used, was built on ground
                            one-half mile south of the cemetery.
                        The first class leader was Hark Wheeler. There were eighteen persons
                            belonging to this class. Other class leaders, who had done estimable
                            service, were Joseph Harrison, Alexander Hillyard, Sr., William Crisp,
                            Henry Harrison and Thomas Hillyard.
                        From the best information that can be gained, the first Sunday School was
                            organized in 1838 in the old log church. There were twenty members
                            belonging to this school. Alexander Hillyard, Sr., was the first
                            superintendent. The Sunday School in those days memorized a great amount
                            of Scripture.
                    
            
            The McJohnson Methodist Episcopal chapel was located at McCutchanville, about
                    three miles south of Hillyard church, at an early date, and these two churches
                    have for many years sustained a stationed minister in a church parsonage located
                    at McCutchanville. A Methodist church was erected near Saundersville at a point
                    where the church cemetery now known as the Ingle cemetery is located, but the
                    church building was later removed.
            The Episcopalians had a church in the settlement, and as late as 1850 one was
                    known as Faux's chapel. Whether named in honor of William Faux, the
                    early historian of the settlement, or one of his descendants, history does not
                    state. It has disappeared.
            There were among the various settlers representatives of many religious
                    denominations. The Established church of 
                        England
                     had a good representation. Whatever the former  religious affiliations of the settlers had been in
                    the old country, Wesleyanism, through the Hillyards, McJohnsons, Wheelers,
                    Parretts, Erskines, and other members of the settlement, as well as the circuit
                    rider, who passed through the settlement at stated periods, firmly established
                    Methodism in the beginning of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    's existence. For years that church very largely pre-empted
                    the soil and the people with it, in the north half of the county. The burial
                    ground at McCutchanville church, one at Hillyard church, one near Saundersville,
                    now known as the Ingle cemetery, the Episcopal cemetery, and the Camp Ground
                    cemetery, established later than the others, ranked in the above order, first of
                    the earliest cemeteries in the county in the number of graves of the pioneers of
                    the first decade of the settlement of the county.
            Among the incidents preserved which show the close touch of some of the
                    immigrants with John Wesley during his ministry in 
                        England
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     are the following: Elizabeth Wheeler (1781–1870), wife
                    of Rev. Joseph Wheeler, was born at 
                  Witney, Oxfordshire, England
               , daughter of John and Elizabeth
                    Early, of Witney. John Wesley was a regular visitor at her mother's
                    home in Witney. When but a small child, she sat on Mr. Wesley's knee
                    and recited one of the longest psalms. Elizabeth Hillyard
                    (1760–1845), widow of John Hillyard, of Longford, 
                        Ireland
                    , was left by her husband at his death a retail store in Longford,
                    which she continued for some years. When the youngest of her four sons, James,
                    William, John and Alexander, was about grown, she came in 1818 with them to
                    America and this was the original Hillyard family of the Blue Grass
                    neighborhood. Her husband, John Hillyard, was one of the first Wesleyan class
                    leaders in Longford. Both she and her husband knew John Wesley. On one occasion
                    as a girl she wore to church a bow of bright ribbon on her bonnet, and Mr.
                    Wesley remarked, "It is a bow upon Bessie?" This was
                    understood by all to be a reproof to the young lady for undue gaiety in dress.
            Reference is elsewhere made to Rev. Joseph Wheeler and Rev. Robert Parrett, two
                    men cast in the same mold, whose influence for good in the new settlement and
                    for a much wider territory, was very great. Their influence upon the young  men of the settlement was very marked. To
                    their influence, especially the former, in a great degree may be traced the
                    education of a number of young men in the families mentioned, to the ministry.
                    Among these native ministers were James and William Ingle, sons, and John Cowle,
                    nephew, of John Ingle, of Saundersville, and William and Henry Wheeler, sons of
                    Mark Wheeler; James, son of John Hillyard, and Thomas Walker and John Harrison.
                    John W. Parrett, eldest son of Rev. Robert Parrett, was an active minister. All
                    of these were Methodists except Thomas Walker, who was resident pastor of the
                    Cumberland Presbyterian church at 
                        Owensville
                    , Indiana, for a generation. So that before these older ministers
                    had passed their vigor, there arose among these families a native ministry, the
                    earliest in that section. Some of them remained in the settlement, rendering
                    good service to the community in furnishing public service at a time when it was
                    much needed. Some of them dedicated their lives wholly to the ministry and
                    passed out into the wider world. None of them are now living.
            ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
            
            One of the criticisms made against emigration to this immediate section was that
                    the country was wet, undrained, malarial and subject to fevers. The picture by
                    Faux of 
                        Evansville
                    , at the time he visited it in November, 1819, is an unfavorable
                    one. On that subject he says:129
                    
                        Visited 
                                Evansville
                             on the bluffs of the 
                                Ohio
                            . Behind it is an almost Impassable road through a sickly
                            swamp, none of which near the road is yet cultivated. It seems too wet.
                            Here I met a few English mechanics regretting they had left 
                                England
                            , where they think they could do better.
                    
            
            The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Gazette
               130 contains an editorial statement
                    on the subject of the health of 
                        Evansville
                    , to the effect that it was "tolerably healthful."
                    Between the lines may be seen that the writer felt that there had perhaps been
                    some foundation at least, at some time, for the charge of unhealthy location.
            
               
                  129 Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                        I, 292.
               
                  130 Issue of Sept. 9, 1824.
            
            
            At the time of the discovery of the "Salt Wells," on Pigeon
                    creek near 
                        Evansville
                    , the Gazette issued an editorial prospectus of
                    the town, claiming almost perfect health in it.131
            
            But 
                        Evansville
                     itself, located about half a mile east of the mouth of Pigeon
                    creek, lay on very high ground, and above the highest water, even up to the
                    present time; but on all three sides away from the river, the ground retreated
                    until it was low, and at the time mentioned, it was entirely undrained. The same
                    may be said of what is now Knight township on the east, as well as Union and
                    Perry townships on the west and south. These lowlands, which have since become
                    drained and are healthy for residence probably as much as the higher ground,
                    were at the time standing in water much of the year.
            Naturally the most inviting location for a settler, health considered, was the
                    high ground beginning on what was afterwards the state road, which started in 
                        Evansville
                    , extended northwardly across Pigeon creek near Anthony or
                    Negley's mill, to 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    . From Pigeon creek, near the present northern boundary of 
                        Evansville
                    , north for the whole distance to the north line of the settlement,
                    the ground was well drained and rolling, and the view was picturesque,
                    especially the backbone of hills occupied by Mechanicsville (Stringtown), near
                    the southern line of the settlement. This was at the beginning occupied by early
                    settlers, some of English birth, including the Walkers, some of English
                    ancestry, all with English sympathies, which united them in many ways with
                    members of the settlement itself.
            The tracts selected by the Hornbrooks, Maidlows and Ingle were located close
                    together, and a great majority of the fifty-six families mentioned by Faux in
                    his book written in November, 1819, were located so closely to the land so
                    selected that the settlement was very compact. There were, however, at the same
                    time and immediately afterwards other settlers properly included within the
                    colony who settled over 
                  
                     131
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, Aug. 27, 1823.
               
                     the line in 
                        Gibson county
                     on the north, Posey on the west, and 
                        Warrick
                     on the east, all, however, within a radius of ten or fifteen miles,
                    most of it much nearer.
            In August, 1819, three months before Faux's visit to John Ingle, Richard
                    Flower wrote a letter132 from the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement, giving some definite idea of its extent and numbers, in
                    which he says: 
                        On a tract of land from the Little Wabash to the Bonpas on the Great 
                                Wabash
                            , about seventeen miles in width, and four to six from north
                            to south, there were but a few hunters' cabins, a year and a
                            half since, and now there are about sixty English families, containing
                            nearly four hundred souls; and one hundred and fifty American,
                            containing about seven hundred souls, who like the English for their
                            neighbors, and many of whom are good neighbours to us.
                    
            
            The central part of the English and Irish location, some six miles east of
                    Saundersville, included the Wheelers, Hillyards, Erskines and McJohnsons, who
                    settled there early. The Hillyards and McJohnsons were there before Faux
                    arrived. The Erskines arrived at 
                        Evansville
                     by an ark Christmas day, 1819, just as Faux was preparing to leave
                    the country. Faux did not meet any of these persons, and his observations are
                    confined substantially to those persons whom he met in the immediate
                    neighborhood of John Ingle's residence, and in 
                        Evansville
                    , where he visited a short time. He speaks, however, of the people
                    in the settlement as the "British,"133
                    thus recognizing what was the fact, that the settlement properly embraced not
                    only the English, but the Irish and a few Scotch, who came about the same time,
                    and were for all practical purposes one with the English.
            The soil upon which the central settlement was made was not of the best. In fact,
                    the timber upon it would have indicated that fact to a farmer familiar with
                    judging soil covered with timber. This criticism was made by Judge McCreary,
                    associate judge of the circuit court, to Mr. Faux, who quotes him in a talk he
                    had with Hornbrook himself, which, the judge said, Hornbrook did not relish.
            The location of the Indiana settlement, with Saundersville 
                  
                     132 Sparks, English Settlement in the 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , letter 2, p. 24.
                  
                     133 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 295.
               
                     as its center, shows that the great body of
                    the settlement occupied less space than that given by Richard Flower for the 
                        Illinois
                     settlement. The great body of the settlers were in a circle of not
                    over one-half the radius of the larger circle described. Its borders were
                    extended so as to include the Parrett location across the county line in 
                        Posey county
                     on the west, and the extension into 
                        Campbell
                     township, 
                        Warrick county
                     on the east, and to Warrenton, in 
                        Gibson county
                    , on the north, and to include Mechanicsville on the south as far as
                    Negley's mill, at the foot of the hill and ridge on which
                    Mechanicsville is located and where the extreme southern boundary of the
                    settlement terminated. Here the Walkers and others lived.
            The 
                        Kentucky
                     backwoodsmen were inclined by preference to select the lower lands
                    in what is now Knight township and Union township, which at the present time are
                    the finest agricultural lands in the county. The same preference was given by
                    the same class of farmers to the lands in 
                        Gibson county
                     and 
                        Posey county
                    , much of which is the finest agricultural soil in this section, and
                    one of the finest agricultural sections in the central west.
            Cobbett134 describes the land of the 
                        New Harmony
                     settlement in 
                        Posey county
                     as being as rich as a dung hill. One exception to the other
                    Englishmen in selecting the location for the settlement was Robert Parrett, who
                    came about the same time as the other leaders mentioned, but who stopped a year
                    or two in 
                        New Jersey
                     before coming to Indiana. He settled at or near what is now
                    Blairsville, in 
                        Posey county
                    , in 1819, and about ten miles distant from Saundersville, where the
                    soil was of a superior character. Here he remained some five or six years and
                    here some of his children, including the late William F. Parrett, circuit judge
                    and member of congress, were born. In 1825 he moved with his family to his
                    location of the Parrett homestead, embracing a hundred and sixty acres of land,
                    then adjoining 
                        Evansville
                     on the south and southeast, which is now a solidly built up portion
                    of the city, including one of the finest residence streets. Much of this he
                        
                  
                     134 Lindly, Indiana as seen by Early
                                Travelers, 514.
               
                     retained till his death, leaving to his
                    children a large estate, in the land alone.
            The English settlement had no definite limits, but extended as its settlers moved
                    around, and from the beginning its members drifted towards 
                        Evansville
                    , along the high and rolling ground in the general neighborhood of
                    the state road, located previous to 1819.
            When the state road in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     was improved, the stations, of two miles in length each, embraced
                    in separate descriptions for clearing timber and road building, were identified
                    in their termini by stakes in the fields of the English settlers from Pigeon
                    creek to the 
                        Gibson county
                     line.135
            
            The road back of 
                        Evansville
                     to Pigeon creek was, in 1819, when Faux described it, low and
                    swampy, or at least undrained of standing water, and much of the land through
                    which it ran was untenable for healthy residence. So, indeed, was much of the
                    best land in the county. The description by early travelers, including Fearon,
                    Faux and others, lays great stress upon the matter of health and the
                    neighborhood of extensive undrained lands, which properly disqualified it for
                    residence of men and their families, who were entering a new life of supreme
                    hardships. In this fact, greater than any other, may be found the explanation
                    why the Hornbrooks, Ingle, Maidlows, Scott, Kennerly, Hillyards, Wheelers,
                    Erskines and later comers, settled land not of the best soil. It compares
                    unfavorably with the land lying lower, especially now when all of it is drained
                    and in cultivation.
            Faux visited 
                        Evansville
                     for a day in November, 1819, meeting several of the prominent
                    citizens who called upon him. As already mentioned, he says Judge McCreary
                    complained greatly of the choice of land made by the British here. He wonders
                    they could not better inform themselves, because when they came there was plenty
                    of good land to be had and if not in bodies, yet in sections and in half
                    sections. "The soil," he said, "is as thin as a
                    clap-board or bear-skin. I would not give one of my quarter sections for all of
                    the neighborhood 
                  
                     135
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, July 13, 1822, Advt. for proposals.
               
                     of the barrens." (The term
                    "barrens," as then used, did not apply to arid soil, but
                    rather to land which was not covered by tall timber.) "They must have
                    been deceived by speculators, but all the English must herd
                        together."136
            
            In this Judge McCreary was wrong. As stated, the original location was made in
                    this section by Saunders Hornbrook, Jr., who came into the wilderness alone, and
                    made his selection, probably without much knowledge of the nature of the soil,
                    as he had not been a farmer in the old country.
            It is true that Samuel Scott lived in this neighborhood before Hornbrook came. At
                    Scott's house were held all the elections in that township, during his
                    life, and they continued to be held there at the house of his widow, after his
                    death, about 1825 or 1826.
            
               
                        Carlisle
                     and Kennerly were on the ground, Kennerly at the north end of
                    Mechanicsville, 
                        Carlisle
                     farther north, toward the settlement, as afterwards located, and
                    while he does not refer to the fact, it is not unlikely that Saunders Hornbrook,
                    Jr., was influenced in some degree by these men, who were rugged, intelligent
                    Englishmen, and as stated elsewhere, afterwards became part of the settlement.
            Notwithstanding the fact that the Saundersville settlement was not located in the
                    most fertile section, and that health of the location had much to do with its
                    selection, a hundred years of cultivation and good farming have made the
                    original location of the English settlement a location of good farms at the
                    present time.
            The first high ground north of 
                        Evansville
                     on the line of travel to 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     begins across Pigeon creek; here it rises abruptly so high and
                    steep that the road from Pigeon creek near Negley's mill up to
                    Mechanicsville at the top of the hill was over one-half mile long and so steep
                    the entire distance that in the old time of dirt roads, it was an object of much
                    solicitude to travelers. Northwardly extends the backbone of the ridge,
                    furnishing a beautiful view of the hills and valleys for many miles, and on this
                    ridge was located Mechanicsville, over a mile in length. Along this high 
                  
                     136 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 295.
               
                     ground the state road, after it was
                    located, was changed to go through the Saundersville settlement, forking at the
                    north end of Mechanicsville easterly in the Petersburg road. This road went
                    through the McCutchanville, Earles, Hillyard church and the Wheeler settlements,
                    where, as in the case of the state road, the English and Irish settlers had
                    blazed the way.
            From the beginning, contemporaneously with the settlement of 
                        Evansville
                     on the one side, and the Saundersville, McCutchanville and Hillyard
                    settlements on the other, on account of its superior location for health, its
                    proximity to the perennial Pigeon creek, and its nearness to the Ohio
                        river, and itself lying on the direct road to 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     from the river, Mechanicsville was an important center of activity
                    and population. It was, so to speak, a connecting link between 
                        Evansville
                     and the English settlement.
            Here was one of the first meeting-houses for religious and educational uses built
                    in the county (1832). It is still standing and in use, as the village church, in
                    excellent condition, though eighty-seven years old, and now the oldest church
                    building in the county.
            At the south end and part of Mechanicsville, opposite Negley's mill, was
                    a small village which has wholly disappeared.137
            
            Mechanicsville was a competitor with 
                        Evansville
                     for the county seat of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     in 1818. It is stated that in the 30's, the citizens of 
                        Evansville
                     had to go to Mechanicsville for first class blacksmithing and
                    wagon-making. Here, in the early 30's, John Ingle, Jr., learned his
                    trade as a cabinet-maker. Here later settled Dr. Lindley, one of the leading men
                    of the county, also the Whittlesey family, long prominent citizens of the
                    county, as well as of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    ; still later the McGhees, Olmsteads, Woods and others.
                    Mechanicsville has always been and still is a well-settled community, and today
                    is thickly settled with well-built houses, and in addition, on account of its
                    superb location, has become a popular place of suburban residences of 
                        Evansville
                     people.
            
               
                  137 Elliott, History of 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            
                  , 94.
            
            
            The subject of water was then of great importance to a settler seeking a farm
                    location. A running stream upon the land was regarded as of great value. The
                    elder Hornbrook calls attention to this advantage of the location of the
                    settlement, in one of his letters. Faux's description of the difficulty
                    of some of the farmers in getting water for their families and stock is both
                    amusing and tragic.138 George Flower's history of
                    the 
                        Prairie
                     settlement in 
                        Illinois
                    , mentions the fact of the difficulty of procuring water at one
                    time, when representatives of much of the village stood in line with buckets for
                    two hours at night, being supplied from a well which he had dug.139
            
            The extreme eastern line of the settlement was from Pigeon creek, a point
                    selected by the elder Igleheart and others including the Lockyears as a water
                    supply. This creek runs north through 
                        Campbell
                     township in 
                        Warrick county
                    , some fifteen miles east of Saundersville; so that he was on the
                    eastern edge of the settlement around which, however, a dozen English families,
                    including the Lockyears, then and later settled. All of his three sons, and two
                    of his four daughters married members of the British settlement. Christopher
                    Lockyear, a brother-in-law of the senior Maidlow, came over with him in 1818. In
                    1918, at a reunion of his descendants in 
                        Evansville
                    , one hundred of them were present.
            Pigeon creek, as the source of unfailing water supply, was at the beginning
                    regarded as one of great importance. Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., in the letter
                    referred to, speaks of the landing of his son at Pigeon creek, rather than at 
                        Evansville
                    . A number of the travelers, in referring to the location, give
                    importance to the existence of Pigeon creek as a well-known stream of water. As
                    late as 1835 it is said the most serious inconvenience that people of 
                        Evansville
                     suffered was the want of good water, and that the Ohio
                        river water was all that could be obtained till that time. The
                    first cistern was then built by Ira French, who had bought the patent right to build cisterns in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    .140
            
            
               
                  138 Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                        XI, 266.
               
                  139 George P. Flower, History of 
                                Edwards County
                            , Ill., 131.
               
                  140 Riley, History of Walnut Street
                            Church, 
                                Evansville
                            
                  , 26.
            
            
            An examination of the records of the county commissioners of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , which had jurisdiction in the establishment, maintenance and
                    repair of roads, shows very clearly that there was universal interest among the
                    first settlers in the establishment of roads in this part of the wilderness.
                    Roads, when established, were for a long period not much more than blazed
                    trails, and the best that could be done in the way of laying out and improving a
                    road was cutting off the heavy timber, which usually left stumps around which
                    the road was compelled to run. So long as the adjoining forest was uncleared,
                    good drainage was impossible, and it was many years before good wagon or
                    carriage roads were established.
            The cost of hauling was so great as to be prohibitive of transportation of heavy
                    material. Faux says that fifty cents was the usual price of carriage for one
                    hundred pounds of corn for over twenty miles, sometimes higher, never lower. One
                    bushel of corn weighed from fifty to fifty-six pounds, so that if it was hauled
                    by weight, it would not pay the carriage for twenty miles. He says that Ferrel,
                    a man of experience and discernment, stated that he would not fetch corn from 
                        Princeton
                    , twenty miles off, as a gift, if he could grow it, nor would he
                    carry it to the 
                        Ohio
                     for sale, because it would not pay carriage and expenses. When, if
                    ever, they will have surplus produce, he will give it to the pigs and cattle,
                    which will walk to market.141 Again he says: 
                        Yesterday a settler passed our door (Ingle's) with a bushel of
                            cornmeal on his back, for which he had traveled twenty miles on foot to
                            the nearest horse-mill, and carried it ten miles, paying seventy-five
                            cents for it.
                    
            
            Almost the first acts of organized government of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     were the receiving of petitions for the opening of public roads,
                    appointing viewers to pass upon the question of public utility, and to
                    investigate and lay them out, and making orders establishing roads. After a road
                    was established in the country districts, the question of its maintenance became
                    important; a road supervisor was appointed and assigned to a specified portion
                    or length of road. Sometimes 
                  
                     141 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 291.
               
                     one road in the county, of length, would be
                    embraced within the jurisdiction of several supervisors. To the supervisor was
                    assigned the inhabitants sometimes by name, sometimes by a general description
                    of locality, living within the territory of his district, near the particular
                    highway which they, by law, were required to work. It was the duty of the
                    supervisor to call upon all the able-bodied inhabitants to work the roads, and,
                    in case of their failure to do so, to collect from them sufficient cash to hire
                    a substitute.
            So great was the interest of everyone in the proper maintenance of these highways
                    of travel, that the leading citizens of the county, without exception, were
                    willing to accept the appointment of road supervisor. This was true of all of
                    the leading men named. This was in some respects the most important public
                    position and nearest to the real interests of the community, although the pay
                    was trifling. The proportion of county business embraced within this routine of
                    work was so great for the first ten years as to indicate that it was of the
                    greatest importance to the people and to the county commissioners, who had
                    charge of it. There is no more reliable record of the names of citizens in
                    particular localities, at a particular time, than is to be found in the
                    enumeration of inhabitants for working roads in the particular road districts.
            More voluminous, however, were the "Estray notices." The stock
                    law was severe to protect stock from thieves. When a settler took up a horse,
                    cow or hog, the law required him to go before the nearest justice with two
                    neighbors and make an appraisement and give notice before the justice, who
                    transmitted the paper, usually a single small sheet, to the clerk's
                    office.
            In preparing the list of English families in this settlement at fixed dates, this
                    mass of contemporary record, each paper containing four names, with the date and
                    the township located, enabled the writer, with his own knowledge and the aid of
                    James Maidlow and James Erskine, to make out, with other aids, a substantially
                    correct record.
            The relative importance of the English settlement to other parts of the county
                    during its first decade may in some measure be estimated by the amount of time
                    and records devoted  by the county
                    commissioners to the roads of that portion of the county, as compared to other
                    portions. Upon such a comparison it appears that the northern part of the
                    county, in which this settlement was located, was much farther advanced in the
                    opening, existence and improvements of highways than the other parts of the
                    county. That part of the county was more thickly settled than was the southern
                    part. Saundersville was located in a central part of the settlement. It is
                    described as "a flourishing post town in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     in 1826.142 In 1833 the same authority
                    described it as "a small post village in 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     ten miles north of 
                        Evansville
                    ." Soon afterwards it ceased to exist. It had, in the early
                    twenties, among other interests, several stores, a mill, a warehouse and a
                    number of houses occupied as residences. There is now no trace of it to be seen
                    in the cultivated field where its location was formerly, and the exact spot of
                    its location cannot be pointed out by any one. The recorded plat of the
                    "town" unfortunately contains no reference to the section or
                    part of section or other description, on which the town was located.
            The road records of the county show that August 9, 1819, the State Road or 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Princeton
                     road was changed to run "through the Main Street of
                    Saundersville," and this very definite north and south line of the
                    landmark remains still the same. The 
                        New Harmony
                     and Boonville road, built in 1820 and 1821, was ordered in two
                    sections, one from "Mansell's mill, Saundersville,"
                    to the 
                        Warrick county
                     line, to meet the proposed road to Boonville through 
                        Warrick county
                    , one from "the town of Saundersville to 
                        New Harmony
                    , to strike the 
                        Posey county
                     line," etc., at a point, etc. If the road from Boonville
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     has not been changed, then the east and west landmark is also
                    fixed, locating Saundersville in the south part of Section 8. It is not
                    impossible that the variation of a quarter of a mile, more or less, might in
                    those times have been regarded as of little importance in descriptions. In fact,
                    roads were not usually surveyed, but located by the judgment of road viewers who
                    chose the "best route" between the termini.
            
               
                  142 Scott, The Indiana Gazeteer,
                        103.
            
            
            
               
                        Vanderburgh county
                     at the time of the English settlement was located in a dense
                    wilderness, the trees were of enormous height and size. For half a century 
                        Evansville
                     has been called the hardwood lumber market of the world, resulting
                    from the extent of the forests and size of trees, tropical in size, in this
                    section, where the grain of the wood gives the lumber a finer quality than in
                    timber grown south of the temperate zone. Clearings by the settlers were often
                    as little as six or seven acres the first year, and gradually increased. John
                    Ingle, at the end of the first year, when Faux visited him, had cleared
                    seventeen acres, and was continuing the work, doing much of his own work in
                    person.
            Hogs were raised, half wild, in the woods on mast, with little expense, and pork
                    was always in demand, one of the most available articles for use in exchange and
                    barter, a substitute for money.143 Saunders Hornbrook, Sr.,
                    established a pork house for cutting and curing the meat, the earliest in the
                    settlement, and like many others, made one or more trips by flat boat to 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            Bears and wolves, when very hungry, would eat the hogs alive, and it was not
                    uncommon for a hog to come home with the loss of a pound or two of flesh bitten
                    from it. Cattle, hogs and sheep could only be certainly raised successfully by
                    keeping them in an enclosure at night. Mrs. Crawford Bell, daughter of David
                    Negley, described an exciting scene in her youth, when a gang of wolves in
                    daylight chased two cows past her, when she and her sister were riding
                    horseback, making her horse run away, fortunately not throwing its riders among
                    the wolves. Before aid could be given, the wolves had overtaken, killed and
                    partly eaten the cows.144 One of the early settlers is
                    quoted in a local history as stating that wolves were so bad in the
                    20's that settlers could not raise pigs enough to furnish their pork,
                    and could not keep sheep at all.145 Faux records that during
                    the few days he, in 
                  
                     143 John N. Truesdell in a notice dated Sept. 2,
                            published Oct. 28, advertised that between the 15th and 25th of
                            November, 1822, he would exchange salt for pork at Jones and
                            Harrison's store in 
                                Evansville
                            . 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, Oct. 28, 1822.
                  
                     144 Gilbert, History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                     , I, 54.
                  
                     145 (B. & F.), History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                     , 355.
               
                     company with John Ingle, visited the
                    Birkbeck and Flower Prairie settlement in 
                        Illinois
                    , in November, 1819, a gang of wolves in daylight attacked a large
                    flock of sheep which was guarded by a shepherd, killing fifty before they could
                    be driven off.146 He also records a visit of one day and
                    night to "
                        Evansville
                     on the bluffs of 
                        Ohio
                    ," and remarks "the wolves last night howled
                    horribly and prowled into town."147 Wild cats and
                    panthers were very common and fierce and an enemy to any stock, and were known
                    to follow persons in the woods, when visiting, from one house to another. Bears
                    were very common and easily killed with the rifle, and their meat was very
                    highly valued. At Faux's first meal in the settlement, at the house of
                    John Ingle, bear meat was served to him, and by him very highly appreciated.148 Deer meat was most plentiful and the meat was highly
                    valued. Venison was taken by the merchants in payment of debts due them, and for
                    goods sold by them.149
            
            The native hunters, as a rule, took only the hide and hind quarters of the deer,
                    leaving the remainder in the woods to be devoured quickly by wolves and other
                    wild beasts. Forty years later, deer were still to be found in the woods in all
                    the counties in southern Indiana. From White river to the
                        Ohio river along the 
                        Wabash
                     was a strip of wilderness in Gibson and Posey counties, where they
                    were to be found much later and are still occasionally seen and easily killed
                    when driven out of the river bottoms by the high water floods.
            Faux paid $4.00 for a bear skin in 1819, worth, he said, four pounds
                    in 
                        England
                    , and the fine hair of one he carried back to 
                        England
                     to be converted into wigs for his friend, Rev. John Ingle, the
                    patriarch of 
                        Somersham
                    .150
            
            There were in the settlement native hunters always ready to hunt up stock which
                    frequently strayed off and was lost; such a one would take his rifle and
                    sometimes be gone several days, generally bringing back the lost stock. The
                    Lock-year brothers, whose father came from 
                        England
                     with the 
                  
                     146 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 258.
                  
                     147
                            Id. 292.
                  
                     148
                            Id., 225.
                  
                     149
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Gazette, Jan. 14, 1824.
                  
                     150 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 292.
               
                     Maidlows, were, like many of their
                    neighbors, good hunters as well as farmers.
            The controlling idea in the structure of the houses in which most of these first
                    settlers in the wilderness lived, as well as its furnishings, was perfect
                    economy of money, which at times was almost unknown. Gold and silver were a
                    great rarity, seldom seen, and paper money, also scarce, was very unreliable in
                    its rating, and in the purchase of the necessaries of life people learned to do
                    without money. So it was in house building. Birkbeck's first log house
                    cost him $20.00. Iron, lead, glass, salt, and rifles could not be
                    made in this section, and were very costly. Houses were built often without
                    nails or windows, and made of logs fitted by the axes and raised by the settlers
                    at house raisings, which were great social occasions. Faux thus describes the
                    log house of John Ingle, of Saundersville, a picture of which "drawn
                    from Ingle Refuge, State of Indiana, U. S., by W. Faux," is the
                    frontispiece in his book:151
                    
                        My friend's log house as a first one is the best I have seen,
                            having one large room and a chamber over it, to which you climbed by a
                            ladder. It has at present no windows, but when the doors are shut the
                            crevices between the rough logs admit light and air enough above and
                            below. It is five yards square and twenty feet high. At a little
                            distance stands a stable for two horses, a corn crib, pig sty and a
                            store; for store keeping is his intention, and it is a good one. Two
                            beds in the room below and one above lodge us.152
                  
                    
            
            Both wooden chimneys in the house caught fire during Faux's visit and
                    threatened destruction of the house. The house was heated by fireplaces large
                    enough to hold large logs and nearly a quarter of a cord of wood. The cabins
                    were sometimes built with opposite doors so that a horse could haul the back log
                    into the house in front of the fireplace. An early settler describes the houses
                    in the entire settlement in his youth, in the 20's, from five to ten
                    years after the time of Faux's description, as follows: 
                        The country was wild, indeed. There were no roads, mere paths, no wagon
                            roads, no wagons to run in them, and no houses, but log cabins. 
                        
                           151 Thwaites, Early Western
                                        Travels, XI, 20.
                        
                           152
                                    Id., 226.
                     
                             There were not more than one or two
                            frame houses in 
                                Warrick county
                            . The whole country was a wilderness.153
                  
                    
            
            The furnishings of the houses were in many cases very primitive and showed the
                    same ingenuity without money as in building the houses, in devising tables,
                    chairs, bedsteads, and more often substitutes, formed by fastening boards or
                    timbers in the floor or walls. Faux says: 
                        I went one mile and a half to borrow from Mrs. Delight Williams six
                            tumblers for the use of our coming Christmas party. This step was
                            necessary or our friends, the Dons of the settlement, must drink out of
                            tin cups or pots. Mrs. Williams is the widow of the whipped Yankee,
                            whose story I have related. [This incident occured in the 
                                Illinois
                                Prairie
                             settlement. Williams was whipped on strong suspicion of
                            being a thief. He died in 
                                Evansville
                             later of his injuries recieved at the hands of regulators.]
                            She lives in a house without a chimney, having only a hole in the roof
                            to let out the smoke, a fire being made in any part. She was rather
                            unwilling to lend these tumblers because they came from 
                                England
                             and money could not replace them if broken. She should
                            expect five dollars, though in 
                                England
                             one dollar bought six.154
                  
                    
            
            The records of 
                        Vanderburgh county
                     show an indictment against two young men of an English family for
                    robbery of the house of James Cawson, a neighbor. Cawson and his wife were
                    wealthy. They were one of the thirty-nine families who sent Fearon to America.
                    They brought from 
                        England
                     with them many of the household conveniences, practically unknown
                    in the wilderness of Indiana. And these, it was charged, tempted the young men
                    who broke into Cawson's house and stole them. The items are described
                    with much detail in the indictment. It is interesting to note some of the
                    sequels of this affair. The defendants were acquitted of robbery, but their
                    father was indicted, but later acquitted for perjury in testifying at their
                    trial. Cawson was indicted for compounding a felony, whereby he got his goods
                    back and ceased to be interested in the prosecution. While an agreement not to
                    prosecute under these circumstances is prohibited as against the policy of the
                    law, it is believed, even in this age, that police aid is more often sought to
                    recover stolen goods than to vindicate the majesty of the broken laws. 
                  
                     153
                            History of 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                
                      (B. & F.), 355.
                  
                     154 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, XI, 300.
               
                     When Cawson was placed upon his trial
                    before a jury in the 
                        Vanderburgh
                     circuit court, he challenged the whole array of jurors and claimed
                    the right to be tried by a jury de mediatate linguae, that is
                    to be tried as a foreigner, by a jury half natives and half foreigners. This
                    practice is rare and at the present time practically unknown in Indiana. The
                    court sustained his challenge and directed a jury to be empaneled, half English
                    and half natives, the former being taken from the English settlement, among his
                    neighbors, and Cawson was acquitted. The names of the foreigners on the jury
                    were Alanson Baldwin, Saunders Hornbrook, Sr., Edmund Maidlow, George Potts,
                    William Mills, James Maidlow. These individuals, including Cawson himself, all
                    became citizens, however, as soon as eligible, under the law at that time, which
                    required several years previous residence.
            Nothing more clearly appears at this time than that success by farmers in the
                    wilderness, such as these men became, required an adjustment to the conditions
                    of frontier life. These pioneers performed household and farm labor without
                    hired help, a life of closest economy and continued sacrifice. The native
                    laborers were, as a rule, more or less shiftless and unreliable. Good land could
                    be bought from the 
                        United States
                     at $2.00 per acre, later at $1.25 per acre,
                    on payment of one-fourth cash, the remainder on long time; so that a thrifty and
                    industrious man could easily make upon the land the money to buy it, as the
                    purchase price became due. Therefore, with such opportunities, capable workers
                    naturally preferred by their labor to own their own land, instead of working in
                    service for others. Faux narrates an incident when John Ingle hired a native
                    preacher to do a job of carpenter work of some magnitude at that time, and,
                    trusting to his cloth, paid him forty dollars in advance, but the man refused to
                    begin or do the work, but kept the money, while his employer had no recourse, as
                    the preacher was irresponsible at law, and he lost his money. It was exceptional
                    that there was any profit in hired labor on the farm under the conditions as
                    they existed at the beginning.
            Women house servants became ipso facto members of the family,
                    on terms of equality or privileges with members of  the family, and in a country where women were
                    scarce, chances of marriage were plentiful and interfered with long employments.
            The life of these pioneers in the wilderness was, therefore, one of the hardest
                    labor, involving the greatest sacrifice of convenience, comfort and pleasure. It
                    was the severing of ties of relationship and friendship, leaving organized
                    society and civilization behind them. To these men and women who came from Great
                    Britain, where orderly society and restrains of convention, as well as of law,
                    were properly established, the change was a severe test.
            The panic of 1818, already referred to, lasted for many years, and checked the
                    growth of 
                        Evansville
                     for more than a decade, checked also active emigration to the
                    British settlement. The reduction of the price of congress land from
                    $2.00 to $1.25 per acre immediately destroyed land values
                    and ruined many people. The financial effect upon the country was universal. 
                        New Orleans
                    , which was practically the outlet for the surplus product of this
                    section, which could only be carried by water, was affected by the panic, and
                    had no surplus money; from it this section had derived its specie.
            The town of Saundersville, which had considerable life during the first few years
                    of the settlement, disappeared and before 1840 not an inhabitant lived in it.155 Such was the fate of many other platted towns. The town
                    scheme of John Ingle and his associates and the British settlement were entirely
                    different matters. The latter was a natural and successful early settlement in
                    Indiana, and the foundation of much wider growth and influence. During the panic
                    the people did not suffer. They had plenty to eat, the women made the clothing,
                    houses were built when necessary, without iron, glass or money. Wooden hinges
                    even were not uncommon within the memory of persons now living.
            Emigration to this settlement and to 
                        Evansville
                     as well, never wholly ceased. The English settlers moved from 
                        Evansville
                     into the country, but more often from the country into 
                        Evansville
                    , and mixed as one people. In the 40's and 
                  
                     155 Thwaites, Early Western
                            Travels, X, 251.
               
                     50's, when the greater tide of
                    emigration better filled up the unoccupied lands in this section, English people
                    came in large numbers with those from other lands. All the time communication
                    had been kept up by correspondence and an occasional visit between the English
                    in the settlement and their acquaintances, friends and relatives in the old
                    country. This resulted in large numbers of British emigrants coming into this
                    settlement and other parts of the county, including the city of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            Before the middle of the last century, John Ingle, Jr., had established in 
                        Evansville
                     a primitive bureau of immigration, one of the important duties of
                    which was to send money through John Ross, Banker, Chatteris, 
                        England
                    , from the English here to their friends and relatives in the old
                    country, to enable them to come over as well as to divide the profits of a
                    successful life in America with the old people and needy relatives in 
                        England
                    , and not infrequently collect legacies in 
                        England
                     for people here. This continued for many years.
            Through influences such as these, there came from 
                        England
                     to 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    , and to the city of 
                        Evansville
                     while it was still small, a number of young and vigorous men, who
                    soon became leaders in their various fields. Among these were leading farmers,
                    builders and contractors in wood, brick and stone, who in the last generation
                    were, at the least, equally, if not more prominent and capable than any other
                    element, in the building in 
                        Evansville
                    , and other towns and cities in this section, of churches, schools,
                    sewers and other large structures, requiring ability, capital and public
                    confidence. A number of these acquired wealth and position, and some of them are
                    still living. There was for many years a section in the center of 
                        Evansville
                     below Main street called Little Chatteris. It is not the purpose of
                    this inquiry to attempt to deal with the careers of these later emigrants, or
                    even to mention the names of prominent people among them; rather to deal with
                    emigrants who came previous to 1830.
            In these investigations, upon which much time and labor have been spent, a
                    personal knowledge of some of the pioneers mentioned and of most of their
                    children, and of facts and  circumstances
                    narrated, aided by family history, have been of material service to the writer.
                    The success and importance of the first British settlement in Indiana lies much
                    in its being a vital part of the beginning of organized society and government
                    in this section, and its impress of Anglo-Saxon ideals at the beginning, out of
                    which and upon which in a substantial degree were established the present
                    conditions in this community, including the city of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            So perfect was the assimilation that the history of the settlement is not the
                    tracing of a separate element, and but for a careful record of these details
                    there would be preserved now no dividing line between the British element and
                    other elements in the early settlement of this part of Indiana.
         
         
         
            The American Marines at Verdun, Chateau Thierry, Bouresches and Belleau Wood
            HARRISON CALE, U. S. M. C., 5345 
                        East Washington
                     St., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            
               Paris Island, S. C., was alive with khaki clad young men,
                    when I arrived at the Marine Training camp shortly after war had been declared.
                    Our instructions emphasized the use of the rifle and a knowledge of the
                    traditions of the Marine Corps, which we were so soon to be called upon to
                    uphold on the field of honor.
            From this station I was transfered to Quantico to join the Ninety-Sixth company,
                    Sixth regiment, which was then undergoing an intensive training, preparatory to
                    its departure for 
                        France
                    . There the days were spent in long marches through the 
                        Virginia
                     hills, interspersed with detailed instruction in the use of machine
                    guns. We had profited from the experience of the English, and every man was
                    forced to qualify as an expert gunner. For there had been a time on the British
                    front when hundreds of these valuable weapons lay scattered on the battle
                    fields, for want of men who knew how to use them.
            After weeks of impatient waiting, at last the hour of our departure came. Early
                    one morning under cover of darkness we were assembled at the railroad station
                    and quietly entrained. We were sent to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     navy yards, where we found our ship waiting in the offing. We went
                    aboard immediately and that night slipped silently down the bay. Our trip across
                    was uneventful save for raids on the kitchen. While one man regaled the cook
                    with stories, nimble fingers searched the larder for dainties.
            
            In the cold gray dawn of early morning, life belts adjusted, we entered the
                    submarine zone. A heavy fog enveloped the ship. Standing on the quarter deck,
                    one could hardly see across the rail. It was almost noon when the sunlight
                    dispelled the murky fog and revealed the presence of our expected destroyers.
                    The long arm of Uncle Sam had reached out across the sea to protect us in our
                    need and convoy us safely to port. It was evening when we sailed up the broad
                    waters of the Loire river into the port of Saint Nazaire,
                    Peasants working in the fields stopped to look, and, discovering the khaki clad
                    lads on the decks, dropped their hoes and leaped with joy; waving their arms
                    with a warmth of welcome that made up for the lack of any demonstration at our
                    departure. The early spring sunlight through the clear air brought out the vivid
                    coloring of the landscape. There in that valley of the Loire we saw 
                        France
                     in all her verdant beauty.
            Our trains were ready and we had our first experience of riding as cattle in a
                    French box car. The sign, 40 Hommes-8 Chevaux," amused us at first
                    until we realized what it meant to travel three days and nights across 
                        France
                     with 40 men in a space ten by twenty feet. Fortunately, it was warm
                    and we escaped some of the hardships others had undergone who had preceded us.
                    Men stood until they became so exhausted they were able to lie down and sleep
                    despite that the others occasionally walked upon them. The floors were alive
                    with "cooties," and while we didn't see the front for
                    some days, we never spent another idle hour.
            But after all it was quite endurable and we enjoyed the trip in a way. It was a
                    beautiful ride across the heart of 
                        France
                    , and the way the villagers shouted "Americans,"
                    warmed our hearts and made us happy to feel we were there to help them.
            Our destination was the little town of Damblain, in the foothills of the Vosges,
                    close to the birthplace of Joan D'Arc. There we detrained. And there
                    one of the men almost caused a stampede as he ran through the crowd shouting
                    that one could buy wine for twelve cents a gallon. "This is some
                    town," exclaimed an old sergeant with a row of campaign bars across his
                    breast. But one swallow was enough. It 
                    tasted like varnish. The French thought it inconceivable that we should drink so
                    much water, but it was always a source of wonder to us how they could drink
                    their "vin ordinaire." On the day following our arrival we
                    marched to the little villa of Blevencourt, where my company was billeted. We
                    slept in barns for the most part and there in the highlands it was not unusual
                    to wake up in the morning beneath a blanket of snow.
            It was here that we had our first experience with the German spy system. Four
                    gypsy girls entered the town, apparently for the purpose of selling small
                    trinkets to the soldiers. They visited the various billets, but no one suspected
                    they had any ulterior motives until an aeroplane landed in a field close to the
                    town late one night and flew quickly away when approached by the guards. One of
                    the gypsies was found in the field and she with her companions was immediately
                    arrested by the French authorities, who said later they had found sufficient
                    evidence to justify their being interned. Incidents of this kind soon taught us
                    the value of absolute secrecy in all our movements.
            We were only there a short time until we were sent to the front. We went in by
                    train to Fort Dugny, one of the ring of forts surrounding Verdun. Evidently our
                    movements had been observed, for when we arrived at the railroad station the
                    Germans began to bombard it. We escaped with only the loss of the Fifth
                    regiment's band instruments. The country in this section was as barren
                    as a desert. The long column moved hurriedly on to the road and we marched
                    thirty miles in to the protection of the Verdun highlands.
            Hidden away in the woods of Camp Massa we rested. There we came into our first
                    intimate contact with the activity on the front. An anti-aircraft battery was
                    located near us. Whenever a German plane appeared in the sky the battery went
                    into action. To us it was always an amusing sight. Every Frenchman looked like
                    he was trying to do all the work himself, while all talked so fast and furiously
                    you wondered who was in command. When the aeroplane came into range they would
                    open fire and it was a wonderful sight to see the balls of shrapnel bursting
                    close to the plane, following it in its 
                    efforts to escape and leaving a long trail of little white puffs of smoke across
                    the sky.
            The roar of the guns on the front rolled up about us and vibrated through the
                    valleys. An occasional shell fell near enough to make us uneasy. It was here
                    while walking in the woods one Sunday morning with some comrades that we were
                    attracted by the sound of music. We listened, and above the rumble of the guns
                    there floated through the trees the sound of a church service. There in the
                    midst of all that great destruction of human life, only a little distance from
                    the red ruin of the front line, was a padre and a group of French soldiers at
                    prayer. We stopped, knelt beside them and prayed with the feeling that one can
                    only experience when he is standing on the brink of eternity.
            Nearby were several little graves on the roadside with their wooden crosses
                    marked with the tri-color. We wondered how long it might be until we would be
                    occupying one. There are many of these little wooden crosses on the roadsides of 
                        France
                    , and when the marches were unusually long and hard and we were very
                    tired and sleepy, we used to envy those sleeping there in the peace and silence
                    of the forest, and death did not seem such an enemy after all, if only we could
                    lay down our heavy packs and rest forever.
            The American army had been assigned the section of the lines from Verdun eastward
                    to the Swiss border, the reason being that their lines of communication would
                    lie to the south and not interfere with those already established by the French
                    and British. The Marines were placed on the right bank of the Meuse, the lines
                    extending from Verdun eastward. We moved in, one night. Early in the evening
                    while patrolling the roads we saw a small balloon, such as is often seen on the
                    Fourth of July, float up from a woods where a high wind caught it and sent it
                    sailing away towards the German lines. It was carrying a message from some
                    German spy, telling them that we were going in to relieve the French. As we
                    wended our way along the road we were held up by some unexplained delay, when
                    suddenly out of the inky darkness of the sky came a salvo of shells that
                    completely destroyed the  road just ahead of
                    us, and which would have annihilated all had we continued our march.
            These trenches which we were to occupy had been dug by the French Colonial troops
                    in the early part of the war. They were in a very bad condition and there was
                    plenty of work to do in repairing them. The dugouts swarmed with vermin; huge
                    rats ran across the men as they slept, and wrought havoc with the emergency
                    rations. This section had been an inactive one since the great Verdun offensive
                    of 1916 and was being used at the time by the French as a rest sector under what
                    seemed to us a tacit agreement that, "if you don't shoot at
                    me, I won't shoot at you." Our instructions were to keep our
                    heads down and not to permit the enemy to see that the Americans had entered the
                    lines.
            But they didn't know the Marines.
            When the dawn came our men climbed onto the parapets and when they saw some
                    Germans down by a creek washing their clothing they promptly opened fire on
                    them. This not only brought down the wrath of the French but a raid by the
                    Germans. Now came our long waited chance for action. The Germans after a
                    preliminary bombardment, came over on us in force. When they reached the barbed
                    wire entanglements in front of our trenches, we opened up such a heavy rifle and
                    machine gun fire that we held them in the wire until the American artillery,
                    which had only moved in an hour before, got into action, and the barrage they
                    poured upon them sent them back with a heavy loss of life. We had been
                    successful in our first encounter, and a wave of such pride and enthusiasm swept
                    over the line that it silenced all criticism and dispelled any doubt in the
                    minds of the French that we could fight.
            Resistance became more stubborn and raids more daring as our first feeling of
                    nervousness wore off. Encounters with the enemy patrols were eagerly sought as
                    the clashes grew more frequent, for we invariably exacted a heavy toll. The
                    Germans infuriated at the appearance of this new foe, bombarded our positions
                    and resorted to every device to make our stay in the trenches as uncomfortable
                    as possible. Every trick known to trench warfare was resorted to and sleep soon
                         became impossible. There they first
                    conferred upon us the name of "Devil Dogs," and as there had
                    been only two other units named by the Germans during the entire war: The
                    Scottish troops, called "The Ladies from Hell," and the Alpine
                    Chausseurs, the "Blue Devils," we felt that we had been very
                    highly complimented. When we left the trenches General Harbord was placed in
                    command. General Pershing told him at that time he was placing him in charge of
                    the finest body of troops in 
                        France
                    . We now took our position in the Allied armies as an equal, for we
                    had been tried by fire and surpassed their expectations.
            On the Somme the great German offensive was at its height. The Boche was slowly
                    driving a wedge between the French and British on the Oise. Ameins, Perrone, and
                    Mont-didier hung in the balance, when word came to rush the Second division to
                    the Picardy front. I looked for the last time down over "No
                    Man's Land," the long winding brown lines that marked the
                    network of trenches spreading over the valley. An ominous silence broods over
                    this shamble; danger ever threatening. The grass had turned to a brilliant
                    green, the few trees that had escaped destruction were sending forth their
                    leaves, and the little birds sang on their branches. Nature seemed in tune; only
                    man was discordant.
            Our march to the Somme was a forced one. The French line was bending to the
                    breaking point. It was a question as to whether we would arrive in time to give
                    them the needed assistance to hold it. For four days and nights we hiked down
                    the long dusty Dieppe road. It was hot and sultry. Water was scarce. The horses
                    and mules in the artillery train died on the roadside—walked to
                    death. There we demonstrated that there is no limit to human endurance as long
                    as there remains the will to do.
            In the villages we saw the evidence of the shocking cruelties committed by the
                    Germans in the early part of the war. Little children, with their arms cut off,
                    trudged alongside the column that we might see for ourselves their misery. If we
                    had ever had any doubts as to the truthfulness of the stories of Hun atrocities,
                    they were dispelled then and there.
            
            Scarcely had we arrived on the Picardy front when word came that the Germans had
                    broken through the line on the Chemin des Dames, and were advancing on 
                        Paris
                     at the rate of twenty-five miles a day. The most dramatic moment of
                    the war had come. General Pershing had told Marshal Foch, "The American
                    people would be proud to be engaged in the greatest battle of all
                    history." Foch gave his consent. The Marines were ordered to Chateau
                    Thierry. We moved immediately. After an all night march to Serans we were placed
                    in French automobile trucks and started across 
                        France
                     in one of the most famous rides in history. The French people along
                    the road had received word of our coming and at every cross roads and village
                    groups stood to see us pass. They realized the Americans were going into battle.
                    They pelted us with flowers and strewed the roads with daisies from the fields.
                    "Good luck," they cried, while little groups of maimed
                    children held up their arms in mute supplication.
            Tears came into the eyes of the men, vengeance into their hearts, and a feeling
                    of exaltation swept over the long caravan, blazing forth in their faces and
                    causing the French to call us "Crusaders." We passed through
                    Meaux, and the main body of the French army in full retreat. All semblance of
                    formation had disappeared. Sodiers mingled with civilians in a mad rush to
                    safety. Beyond Meaux the road was filled with refugees. A motly looking mass of
                    men and women and children and cattle and carts. Toothless old women and aged
                    men struggling under heavy burdens. Young girls dragging little children
                    scurried along the edge of the fields. They watched us pass, without emotion,
                    pausing only to cry, "Tue Le Boche," and draw their hands
                    across their throats, suggesting this method as the most effective means. Sad
                    and sullen with despair, hatred flashing in their eyes, they trudged along. As
                    we sang snatches of songs an old woman shook her head and inquired how we could
                    sing when we were going up to be killed.
            Full thirty hours we rode. The boom of the cannons came to our ears. Enemy avions
                    droned over our heads, dropping occasional bombs. Night fell and we finally drew
                    up in a  small village where we bivouacked,
                    just behind the battle lines.
            This was the darkest of the dark hours of the Allied cause. The French and
                    British armies lay stunned from the heavy onslaughts of the past month. 
                        France
                     had abandoned all hope. In 
                        Paris
                     trains waited at the stations to evacuate the civilian population.
                    The Germans were on the outskirts of Chateau Thierry. Only a miracle could save 
                        France
                     from disaster.
            This was the crisis the Marines faced when we advanced down the Metz-
                        Paris
                     road on June 1, 1918. The French rearguard, which had been fighting
                    for more than a week against a foe vastly superior in numbers and equipped with
                    a preponderance of artillery, filtered slowly through our lines. As we passed a
                    clump of trees near the Triangle Farm, a French officer at the head of a company
                    of horsemen dashed up to my section and shouted, "Go back while you
                    have the opportunity. There are many Boche!" "Many
                    Boche," I answered, "why that's just what we came
                    over here to see."
            Near the southern limits of the Bois Belleau the Germans encountered a stone wall
                    of resistance. They advanced through a wheat field in their famous mass
                    formation, confident of victory. Bayonets flashed, machine guns burst forth and
                    a heavy rifle fire raked their ranks. The Boche recoiled, came on. Our men took
                    careful aim before they shot. The Boche wavered and broke, crawling off through
                    the wheat to shelter in the woods. A French colonel witnessing the fight
                    declared it was the first time in the history of European warfare that men ever
                    sighted their guns and fired with such precision.
            Many difficulties were experienced as we advanced through the wooded areas. The
                    tree tops were infested with machine gun nests. This meant work with the
                    bayonet, hand to hand with an enemy we had already found we could master. We
                    took no prisoners and the only Germans we left behind were dead Germans. They
                    were quick to perceive this and changed the whimper of
                    "Kamarad" to the plea, "La Guerre est fini."
                    But the thoughts of those maimed children and  the menace to our own homes only made us sink our bayonets the deeper.
            Then followed days and nights of heavy bombardment. Sleep was impossible. Food
                    was scarce. Even the red embalmed Argentine beef, called "Monkey
                    Meat," was A. W. O. L. (absent without leave). There was only
                    excitement to live on. My company was sent down to take the town of Bouresches,
                    a tactical position which the Boche had already seized. To reach the town it was
                    necessary to cross a wheat field more than 200 yards wide. The German artillery
                    opened up point blank upon us, supported by a withering machine gun fire, the
                    bullets running like a river of lead through the tops of the wheat. Captain
                    Donald F. Duncan stepped forth from the woods, calmly smoking his pipe, and
                    swung his cane over his head as a signal to advance. He was shot down instantly.
                    The first American officer to fall at Chateau Thierry, he left an example of
                    coolness and bravery under fire that was an inspiration to all who knew him.
            Advancing by short, quick rushes and then down to the ground for cover, we swept
                    forward in the old American style of fighting. In the screen of trees directly
                    before Bouresches, the foliage and branches rattled and vibrated with the
                    put-put-put of the concealed machine guns. As my section advanced, eight of the
                    twelve men were killed before we had gone a hundred feet. We pushed on. The
                    bullets whipped and cut our clothing and clipped the ammunition from our belts.
                    Men fell fast upon that field. Out of one hundred and fifty who started across
                    that field but twenty-four reached the town itself. A fierce hand-to-hand
                    struggle ensued. Bouresches was occupied by 300 of the enemy. Every street had
                    its fight; sticking—slashing—banging. Machine guns in the
                    doors of the buildings, in the church steeple, behind piles of rubbish, and
                    sharpshooters in every coign of vantage. I ran down one street with a lieutenant
                    who had the bars shot off his shoulders. A high explosive shell burst above us,
                    denting our helmets, but we were spared. In a cellar a number of the enemy hid
                    with a machine gun. I tossed a hand grenade into their midst and it was
                    "Fini La Guerre" for them. We soon found we were in advance of
                    our  lines, as the German artillery began to
                    pound us on three sides. The Second Engineers rushed in to our assistance. Some
                    carried only picks and shovels, but, full of fight, those brave fellows made it
                    possible for us to hold our gain against the immediate counter-attack.
                    Replacement men came in to fill our decimated ranks under cover of darkness.
                    Five of them assigned to my section were killed the same night before the poor
                    chaps had a chance to see a German. Few houses in the town escaped the
                    destructive fire of the artillery that hammered us incessantly. In the cellar of
                    one we found an old man and his wife. Urged to go to the rear, they refused.
                    Later the place was found deserted. The man had left. The body of the woman was
                    hanging to a rafter, where she had sought escape in suicide.
            The capture of Bourseches was the preliminary step to the fight in Belleau wood,
                    now named by the French "The Forest of the Brigade of the
                    Marines." Our artillery arrived. Four hundred guns moved in at night.
                    Information had been obtained that the Germans were filtering into the wood in
                    force preparatory to making another thrust. Just before daylight the American
                    artillery opened up and a perfect hurricane of shells fell upon it. The Bois
                    became ablaze with the lights of bursting shells. The drumfire of a hundred
                    cannon was terrrifying, as the heavy barrage swept back and forth through the
                    trees.
            The Marines charged. They rushed into the impregnable mass of tangled underbrush
                    with blood-curdling yells. Falling naturally into the Indian style of advancing,
                    they crawled from tree to tree. The Boche gave way. He had had enough. From the
                    wood into the road poured hundreds of the men in gray. We turned our machine
                    guns into them and piled them up in heaps until they sought another outlet. It
                    was American pluck against the German mass formation. The tide turned. American
                    spirit triumphed. The Boche was beaten, his morale destroyed and 
                        Paris
                     was saved.
            Eight thousand Marines were pitted against thirty-five thousand Prussian Guards,
                    the crack troops of 
                        Germany
                    . These divisions had been resting for almost a month behind the
                    lines near Noyon, held for just such an emergency. They  were sent in to make the final dash to 
                        Paris
                     a success. Is it any wonder that we were as surprised as the German
                    General Staff, when they received the news of their retreat?
            Just what the losses were on the German side we have never heard, but we do know
                    that there were less than two thousand Marines surviving when we finally
                    withdrew. With no greater number than eight thousand Marines in the lines at any
                    time our losses in the war were over twelve thousand. Only twenty-five Marines
                    were taken prisioners by the Germans. With us it was kill or be killed.
            In a service of less than three months, the Marine Corps received eleven
                    citations for bravery, this being the highest number given to any unit during
                    the war.
            From this sector we were sent to a woods just in the rear of the lines on the
                    Soissons front, where we rested and received replacements. Early on the morning
                    of the following day we moved forward under orders to capture the town of Lucy
                    de Bruges. When we swept into the town we discovered it was then held by
                    Americans, so we withdrew into a woods on the east to await further orders. The
                    German observers, in a huge sausage balloon, saw us enter the woods. They took a
                    few sighting-in shots at us during the afternoon. That night their artillery
                    opened up with one of the most vicious gas attacks recorded during the war.
            When the shells began to fall, a lieutenant ran over to me and gave orders to
                    move the men in our platoon out of the woods and onto a road a hundred feet
                    distant, where they might find some protection from the shells. He had scarcely
                    shouted the order when a shell burst near him and I never saw him again. It was
                    very dark in the woods, which made it necessary for me to remove my gas mask and
                    summon the men to me by the sound of my voice. The shells were falling on the
                    path to the road about every six seconds. This obliged us to time the shells by
                    counting off the seconds and sending the men through the barrage on the run,
                    starting them while pieces of the exploded shells were still flying in the air.
                    In this manner I succeeded in passing through in safety about forty men. The
                    others had shifted for themselves. Gunnery Sergeant Fred W. Stockman, an
                    old-time member of the  Marine Corps, walked
                    back and forth through the woods that night, driving the men out of their fox
                    holes and making them get up and go to me, as all were loath to leave the
                    shallow holes which provided at least a little protection. The woods was a mass
                    of crashing shells and falling trees as the gas, mingled with high explocives,
                    swept through the branches. But the brave sergeant never stopped until he had
                    made every man he could find move out to the road. Poor chap; he voluntarily
                    gave up his life that he might save others. Such deeds are immortal.
            When I reached the road I found that the men, unable to see in the darkness and
                    seriously hampered by their gas masks, had stretched themselves out in the
                    center of the roadway instead of under the shelter of a low bank on the side of
                    the road. I had not as yet put on my mask and so was able to see their
                    predicament. I walked down the long line, ordering them to crawl over to the
                    bank. While doing this I found that a German spy, a member of our own
                    organization, was continually passing the word up to the men to take off their
                    masks, endeavoring to deceive them by saying that there was no gas; that the
                    odor was that of the high explosives. I sent several men in search of him, but
                    in the great confusion we were not able to locate the guilty one. By this time I
                    had put on my gas mask, but it was blown from my face by a shell a few minutes
                    later. There was no escape from this terrible situation. We could only lie quiet
                    and take the "strafing." When daylight came, the woods which
                    we had been in were completely destroyed, and there was an inch coating of
                    pieces of shrapnel and shells over the roadway.
            Then began the evacuation of the wounded. The gas, while I was inhaling it, did
                    not feel so disagreeable. It made me feel quite sleepy, but aside from the
                    burning sensation in my eyes, I experienced little pain. I endeavored to carry
                    some ammunition down to the line just beyond us, when a sudden weakness came
                    over me. An officer, noticing me stagger, ordered me to the rear. I took about
                    twenty men with me, all suffering from the effects of the gas. We walked about
                    two miles against the wind, after removing the greater portion of our clothing,
                    in order to escape the severe body  burns
                    that follow mustard gassing. Nine of these men died on the way.
            We were sent through to 
                        Paris
                    . When we arrived we had all become blind, and it was ten days
                    before we again saw daylight. The damage to my throat and lungs held me in the
                    hospital for eight months. Only two men out of my original company of 250
                    survived this encounter, and practically all of the men who had composed the
                    original members of the Fifth and Sixth regiments had been wiped out.
            The Second division, of which the Marines composed one-half, sustained the
                    highest number of casualties, captured more prisoners, guns and territory than
                    any other division, and wrote into American history one of its most brilliant
                    pages.
            War is a crucible through which men pass into larger and nobler lives. It brings
                    out the courage to die for one's ideals; it overcomes the fear of death
                    and leads us into a higher appreciation of all that is good and true, a more
                    exalted patriotism and a firmer faith in God.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Papers of Thomas Ruffin, Vol. II, Publications of the 
                        North Carolina
                     Historical Commission, collected and edited by J. G. DE ROULHAC HAMILTON, Ph.D.,
                    Alumni Professor of History in the University of 
                        North Carolina
                    , Raleigh, 1918, pp. 625.
            The letters of this volume cover the period from 1831 to 1858. Judge Ruffin took
                    an active part in southern politics and the letters here printed throw much
                    light on the development of the political estrangement of the South, beginning
                    with 1830. Far more interesting are the letters describing farm life in 
                        North Carolina
                    . The elegant style, the typical southern sentiment and culture of
                    the old time are shown as well in these letters, as I have seen. Besides being a
                    lawyer by profession, chief justice of the State, he was a planter. He writes of
                    his slaves absconding after quarreling with the overseer and later returning of
                    their own accord. One slave wandered as far as 
                        London
                    , east 
                        Kentucky
                    . Judge Ruffin reveals in his letters, always calm and dignified,
                    the gradually growing restlessness of the slaves, the irritation of the planters
                    at the increasing interference from the North and the widening gap between North
                    and South. Aside from the historical value these letters make most delightful
                    reading.
         
         
            
               Fighting the Spoilsmen; Reminiscences of the Civil Service
                        Movement. By WILLIAM DUDLEY FOULKE, LL.D., 
                        N.Y.
                    G., P. Putnam's Sons, 1919, pp. 348, price
                    $2.00.
            Mr. Foulke has been an active member of the National Civil Service Reform League
                    almost from its organization at 
                        Newport
                     in 1881. Under Roosevelt he became a member of the Civil Service
                    Commission, resigning in the spring of 1903 on account of failing health. In
                    State and Nation the author thus had about twenty years experience in the field
                    of Civil Service Reform. The movement is treated historically,  covering the administrations of 
                        Cleveland
                    , Harrison, McKinley, Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson. Each of these
                    Presidents, Mr. Foulke believes, was personally favorable to the reform, but all
                    were not equally capable of evading or refusing the demands of the politicians
                    for plunder. The volume is not an essay nor sermon on the merits of Civil
                    Service Reform; the author assumes that the American people are convinced of the
                    justice and value of the reform, but a historical record of the actual struggle,
                    names, dates, places, facts, documents, and accusations are freely given. It is
                    hardly necessary to say to those acquainted with the character and skill of Mr.
                    Foulke that his work is done fearlessly and skillfully. Many reformers grow
                    impatient with the slow-moving world and retire from the fight in disgust. Mr.
                    Foulke is of a different temper. While carrying on a fight to the death he has
                    preserved his good temper, which is shown, even in the record, by a tinge of
                    humor. The characteristics of the spoilsmen are set forth in numerous cases. It
                    may be objected that these cases are tried ex parte but in
                    most cases we will forever have to do without the other side. The limits of the
                    classified civil service as well as other problems incident, such as
                    superannuation, are set forth. As a historical record of this political struggle
                    in America this volume will take rank along with the writings of Carl Shurz,
                    with decided advantage in concise and pointed treatment, in fact is is so
                    systematically presented as to make it especially useful in the schools.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         Authors and Their Works. A Contribution Toward a
                    Bioliography. By ALICE MARPLE,
                    Assistant Curator. Introduction by EDGAR R. HARLAN, Curator, Des Moines, 1918, pp. 359.
            The scheme of this bibliography is not clear. In the instructions to the author
                    this rule is laid down: "Please disclose the existence of, and work
                    done by any one fairly entitled to be regarded an author or writer of a book,
                    and so connected with the State as to have been something within the meaning of
                    the term ‘An 
                        Iowa
                     Author’". The rule of  inclusion or exclusion offers some difficulties.
                    Beginning on the one hand some are included who were born in 
                        Iowa
                     but left in childhood and never returned; on the other hand are
                    included those who have made 
                        Iowa
                     their homes only in their old age. The following list of
                    historians, culled from the pages at random will illustrate: Rufus Blanchard, E.
                    J. Benson, Geo. W. Botsford, H. E. Bourne, Emerson Hough, E. J. James, J. A.
                    James, Jesse Macey, C. E. Merrian, Milo Quaife, B. F. Shambaugh, Albert Shaw, F.
                    N. Thorpe, Jacob Van der Zee. No data is given beyond dates of birth and death,
                    lists of books or articles and the publishers.
         
         
            
               Political Parties in 
                            Michigan
                        
                1837–1860. An Historical Study of
                        Political Issues and Parties in 
                            Michigan
                         from the Admission of the State to the Civil War. FLOYD BENJAMIN STREETER. 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, Lansing, 1918, pp. 401.
            This is University Series IV, 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Publications. This is not a history, in the strict sense
                    of the word, but as indicated by the title, a study or interpretation. The facts
                    on which the author's conclusions rest are not stated in sufficient
                    detail to enable one not thoroughly conversant with the facts in the case to
                    judge of the soundness of the interpretation. The study bears the evidences in
                    itself however of being a very careful and reliable interpretation. There are so
                    many elements in the interpretation of political history, all uncertain in
                    value, that a given body of facts admit of almost infinite explanation or
                    interpretation. A customary device for setting forth the truths of an election
                    is the political map, and the study under review has a number of excellent ones,
                    but a careful study of political development in Inliana indicates that such maps
                    carry about an equal amount of truth and error.
            Another common line of interpretation in western history is that based on
                    ancestry and previous homes of the voters. The reviewer is convinced that in
                    Indiana at least conclusions based on such reasoning are worthless. There are so
                    many instances of political leaders from remotely different  sections combining in the heartiest cooperation and
                    other instances of men from the same original neighborhood bitterly opposing
                    each other that it seems futile to attempt to establish any valid conclusions.
            In dealing with the political influence of the churches in Indiana similar
                    difficulties have been met. Resolutions by meetings of ministers have often been
                    found to furnish a poor clue to the political conduct of their parishioners.
                    Ardent Freesoilers and pro-slavery leaders belonged to the same church. In only
                    two instances in Indiana does it seem the influence of the churches was
                    sufficient to decide the elections.
            In general Mr. Streeter's conclusions for 
                        Michigan
                     apply to Indiana. The Jacksonian Democrats, the Whigs, the
                    Freesoilers, the union of factions to form the Republican party, the
                    Knownothings, the personal followings resulting in faction, the cleavage between
                    office-holding politicians and the voters—especially federal
                    officeholders—all find their counterpart in Indiana. However, there
                    are some significant differences. There seems to have been more personality in
                    politics in 
                        Michigan
                     than in Indiana, or perhaps these changes came later in 
                        Michigan
                     and are incident to the frontier. The period of personal politics
                    ended in Indiana about 1830 while it would seem to have lasted in 
                        Michigan
                     till after 1840. There also seems to have been more party loyalty
                    or regularity in Indiana, a characteristic usually found increasing as one goes
                    from north to south.
            In Indiana it was the Whigs who had to shoulder the blame for the Internal
                    Improvement failure, while in 
                        Michigan
                     it seems to have been put on the Democrats. It is a very
                    interesting book especially to a reader acquainted with politics in a neighbor
                    State.
         
         
            
               Ninth Annual Report of the Southeastern Hospital for the Insane
                        for the year ending September 30, 1918.
            This hospital, the last of its kind built by the State, was opened at Cragmont,
                    near 
                        Madison
                    , August 23, 1910, in one of the most beautiful situations in the
                    State. There are six  main buildings and
                    1,158 acres of grounds. The institution cost over $1,500,000 and can
                    care for 1,100 inmates. The average enrollment for the year was 1,166, showing
                    that the hospital is already crowded. This is the fifth Hospital for the Insane
                    in the State. The problem thus presented to the State is serious. Dr. James W.
                    Milligan is medical superintendent.
            THROUGH the favor of Dr. E. V. Shockley the Survey has
                    received an official account of the great Italian victory on the Piave in the
                    closing days of October, 1918. Dr. Shockley has been with the Y. M. C. A. in 
                        Italy
                     for over a year. Dr. J. S. Nollen, formerly of Indiana University,
                    is general secretary for 
                        Italy
                    .
         
         
            THE
                    Journal of History for January, 1919, is taken up by Official
                    Statements of President Joseph Smith; by Herman C. Smith. This is largely
                    documentary and for the history of the Mormons in 
                        Utah
                     is a very valuable contribution.
            The April, 1919, number contains a continuation of the Official Statements of
                    President Smith. The January number also contains a biography of John Smith,
                    first president of the Lamoni Stake or settlement in 
                        Iowa
                    .
         
         
            AMERICAN
                    Anniversaries Every Day in the Year, Presenting Seven Hundred and
                        Fifty Events in 
                            United States
                         History from the Discovery of America to the Present Day.
                    By Philip R. Dillon Publishing Company, 
                        New York
                    . pp. 349, xv. $2.50.
            The title of this volume is a sufficient description. It is intended for and will
                    be found very useful for teachers and editors who are interested in knowing of
                    events which occurred on given days.
         
         
            THE
                    
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Manual, 1919, for the use of members of the General
                    Assembly of 1919, published by the State Historical Commission is the best thing
                    of its kind that has come to the reviewer's notice. It is a small
                    clothbound well-  printed volume of 459
                    pages giving a concise historical account of all the State governmental agencies
                    and institutions; statistics of expense, votes, populations, products and
                    values; biographies of State officers, and everything, it seems necessary for an
                    intelligent understanding of the State and its activities as needed by the
                    citizen and legislator.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for December, 1918, contains an
                    article by St. George L. Sioussat on 
                        Tennessee
                    , the Compromise of 1850 and the 
                        Nashville
                     convention; also the concluding article by Albert V. Goodpasture on
                    Indian Wars and Warriors of the Old Southwest.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin for November, 1918, is taken up with
                    Dakota Portraits by Stephen R. Riggs. These were written by Reverend Riggs in
                    1858 and published in the 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Free Press from January to July of that year. Riggs was a
                    Presbyterian Missionary to the Sioux 1837–1842 and the portraits are
                    of red men.
            GEORGE R. WILSON has superintended the
                    placing of a marker where the first white settler of 
                        Dubois county
                     located. The spot is near the Sherritt graveyard. 
                        Boone
                     township, where two Indian trails crossed, on the famous old
                    Buffalo Trace near the Mudholes. The McDonald family cleared a small field here
                    in 1801. It is to be regretted that there are not 91 other men—one
                    for each county in Indiana—as well acquainted with, and as
                    intelligently interested in Indiana pioneer history. Every act of this kind adds
                    one more strand to the cord of tradition and sentiment which binds the Hoosiers
                    together and to their native State.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Magazine of History of Biography, October, 1918, contains
                    an article by Charlamagne Tower on Joseph Bonaparte in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and Bordentown, Selections from the Correspondence of Clement
                    Biddle, and History of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Lancaster
                     Turnpike by Charles I. Landis.
            THE
                    Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. VI, number 4, is
                    the Minutes of the Society from 1886 to 1918.  The Society was reorganized at the former date
                    under William H. English. This number completes volume VI. The other numbers are
                        Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Meeting of the Ohio
                            Valley Historical Association. Journal of Thomas Dean,
                    and Early Indian Trails and Surveys. The bound volume can be
                    had from the Bobbs-Merrill Co. of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               
                  
                            Washington
                         University (
                        St. Louis
                    ) Studies VI, No. 2, is taken up with an article
                    by Chauncey Samuel Boucher on 
                        South Carolina
                     on the eve of Secession, 1852–1860. The article is
                    illustrated by maps.
            PIONEER HANDICRAFT
            
            The following personal letter and invitation from Mr. Hal. C. Phelps, president
                    of the 
                        Miami County
                     Historical Society, is hereby extended to the public:
                    "When convenient stop at 
                        Peru
                     and call at the Court House and see the collection of the hand de
                    craft of the Pioneers of the County. The best collection in the country. Under
                    the control of the Miami Co. His. Soc."
            THE
                    Eighteeth Annual Report of the State Board of Forestry. (for
                    1918) has just been distributed. This board was created by act of March 1, 1901.
                    The State Park Commission, organized 1916, now works in cooperation with the
                    Board. The recent General Assembly reorganized this department but fortunately
                    Richard Lieber, State forester, and Charles C. Deam, acting State forester, are
                    still in charge and their plans will be continued. The following quotation from
                    the report will give a hint as to what they are doing:
            "The Commission last year located an old and dilapidated log cabin some
                    four miles northeast of the park. The poplar logs the smallest of which is 27
                    inches high, were so remarkable that the Commission decided to rebuild the cabin
                    in the park. This was done in the spring. Doors and casings were made out of an
                    old dead black walnut and the roof covered with clapboards made on the premises.
                    A large ‘cat  and
                    clay’ smoke stack completes the building, which we trust will serve
                    as a reminder of the time when the State was young". Turkey Run was
                    visited last year by more than 25,000 people.
            STATE CHARITIES
            
            The following statement shows what the State Board of Charities has done and
                    hopes to do for the orphans of the State: 
                        A HOME FOR EVERY HOMELESS CHILD
                        A Home for Every Homeless Child is the slogan for the various social
                            agencies in Indiana which are making an effort to protect and conserve
                            the childhood of the State. A Home for Every Homeless Child is the
                            crying need of the children who, because of neglect, have become
                            dependent and have been denied some of their natural birthrights.
                        There are being maintained in the orphans' homes of the State
                            about 1,900 children for whom good family homes are desired. We believe
                            that for every homeless child that is physically and mentally normal
                            there is some good home ready and able to receive it and give to it the
                            love, care and training of which it has been deprived through no fault
                            of its own. Many of them are of the impressionable
                            age—between 5 and 12 years old. They want homes. They want
                            kind, sympathetic, patient foster fathers and mothers who will help them
                            to grow into useful citizenship. The citizens of our State and the
                            public officials can render a most useful service by helping secure
                            homes for these unfortunate children.
                        Figures in the office of the Board of State Charities show that many
                            thousand children have had advantage of foster homes in past years.
                            About 3,200 of them are in family homes at the present time under
                            supervision, while many others have been legally adopted. These children
                            are having restored to them their right to normal life and training and
                            in return are bringing happiness to many foster parents.
                        The 1,900 children, in orphans' homes are longing for a like
                            opportunity. Will you help them? Will you take some boy or girl into
                            your home and find other families who will take them? If you want to
                            render a useful service to the children and to the State communicate
                            with the board of children's guardians in your county, the
                            orphans' homes or the Board of State Charities, Room 93, State
                            House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , for desired information.
                    
            
            THE
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for April, 1919, has an article on 
                        Missouri
                     capitals and capitols by Jonas Vilas; Gottfried Duden's
                    Report, 1824–1827, translated by William  G. Bek; and Early Days on Grand
                    River and the Mormon War by Rollin J. Britton.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine for April, 1919, has an article by
                    William L. Jenks on Legislation by Governor and Judges. The article deals with
                    the origin and development by Congress of this policy as a form of territorial
                    government. No account is given of the work of the governor and judges in 
                        Michigan
                     or elsewhere.
            THE
                    Survey is in receipt of a small pamphlet from Miss L. Freeman
                    Clarke on William Hull and the Surrender of 
                            Detroit
                        . The article is reprinted from the Memorial
                        and Biographical Sketches of James Freeman Clarke together with some
                    letters from General Hull's Military Record.
            IN the Historical Outlook for April is an
                    article by Samuel B. Harding on What the War Should Do For Our History Methods.
                    Dr. Harding is chairman of a Committee of Eight of the American Historical
                    Association on the teaching of History and Education for Citizenship. Dr.
                    Harding very properly warns teachers against being swept from their feet by the
                    present demand for history of the immediate present. Not only the war just ended
                    but all other events of like magnitude have their beginning and development deep
                    in the history of the past. The citizen unacquainted with the past unless
                    inspired is about as capable as the traditional blind pilot.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for April, 1919, is taken
                    up by two articles, one by Clarence Ray Aurner on Historical Survey of Civil
                    Instruction and Training for Citizenship in 
                        Iowa
                    , the other on the President of the Senate in 
                        Iowa
                     by Cyril B. Upham.
         
      
   
