
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 69, Issue 1, pages 181-297. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:69+issue:1+year:1973&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Manuscript Federal Census: Source for a "New" Local History
            Robert G. Barrows∗
            
            Within recent years a number of scholars have begun to decry the tendency of historians to write
                    American social history from the perspective of the dominant culture. As one of these critics notes,
                    historians in the past have usually focused their attention "on unions rather than on
                    laborers, on social welfare rather than on the experience of the poor, on institutions rather than
                    on the people they purported to serve."1 This historical myopia has
                    left largely unexamined the experiences of sizeable segments of the population. The result is that
                    "the 
                        United States
                    , insofar as major aspects of its past are concerned, remains an unknown
                        country."2
            
            Several historians have initiated attempts to "redress the historical balance in order to
                    provide a total picture of society."3 One leading advocate of such
                    endeavors has called for a description of past societies "as they appeared from the bottom
                    rather than the top, more from the point of view of the inarticulate than of the
                        articulate."4 Such urgings have 
                  
                     ∗ Robert G. Barrows is a graduate student and an associate
                            instructor in the Department of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1 Tamara K. Hareven, ed., Anonymous Americans:
                                Explorations in Nineteenth-Century Social History (Englewood Cliffs, N. J., 1971),
                            viii. A similar point is made by Robert H. Bremner, "The State of Social Welfare
                            History," in Herbert J. Bass, ed., The State of American History (
                                Chicago
                            , 1970), 94.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Norman
                             Birnbaum, "Afterword," in Stephan Thernstrom and Richard
                            Sennett, eds., Nineteenth-Century Cities: Essays in the New Urban History (
                                New Haven
                            , 1969), 422.
                  
                     3 Hareven, ed., Anonymous Americans, x.
                  
                     4 Jesse Lemisch, "The American Revolution Seen from the
                            Bottom Up," in Barton J. Bernstein, ed., Towards A New Past:
                                Dissenting Essays in American History (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 6.
               
                     begun to broaden the scope of American social history. To date,
                    however, this "new" social history has been concerned primarily with the urban
                        scene.5 Attempts to write the history of "anonymous"
                    Americans have not yet had a major impact on local history. "Very much unstudied by
                    historians," observes one writer, "are places too small even to fit the census
                    taker's minimum definition of urbanism, but populated nonetheless by inhabitants whose
                    pursuits were mainly non-agricultural or only indirectly agricultural."6 The same is true, of course, for areas entirely agrarian.
            These omissions are unfortunate since efforts to understand the experiences of the
                    "inarticulate" common man are highly compatible with studies of small, well
                    defined geographical areas. Almost sixty years ago a contributor to an Indiana county history opined
                    that "the history that lies at the root of all history is that which affects the local
                    life, the homes and the daily conditions of the people."7 More
                    recently, a scholar associated with the National Archives has observed that those who are impatient
                    with local history fail to realize that "the parochial is not without broader meaning and
                    that the well-told story of a township reveals much also about the history of the county of which it
                    is a part."8 Considerable work remains to be done at the village,
                    township, and county levels before integrated state and national social histories can be written.
                    This work, moreover, must now take cognizance of those groups at the bottom of the societal ladder
                    which have been neglected so often in the past.
            
               
                  5 See, for example, Stephan Thernstrom, Poverty and Progress:
                            Social Mobility in a Nineteenth Century City (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1964); Thernstrom and Sennett, eds., Nineteenth-Century
                            Cities; Peter R. Knights, The Plain People of 
                                Boston
                            , 1830-1860 (
                            New York
                        , 1971); two essays by Richard J. Hopkins, "Occupational and Geographic
                        Mobility in 
                            Atlanta
                        , 1870-1896," Journal of Southern History, XXXIV (May,
                        1968), 200-13, and "Status, Mobility, and the Dimensions of Change in a Southern City: 
                            Atlanta
                        , 1870-1910," in Kenneth T. Jackson and Stanley K. Schultz, eds., Cities in American History (
                            New York
                        , 1972), 216-31; and Paul B. Worthman, "Working Class Mobility in
                        Birmingham, 
                            Alabama
                        , 1880-1914," in Hareven, ed., Anonymous Americans,
                        172-213.
               
                  6 Rodney O. Davis, "
                            Prairie
                         Emporium: Clarence, 
                            Iowa
                        , 1860-1880. A Study of Population Trends," Mid-America,
                        LI (April, 1969), 131.
               
                  7 Benjamin S. Parker, "The Importance of Local History and the
                        Best Methods of Preserving It," in Rolland Lewis Whitson, ed., Centennial
                            History of 
                                Grant County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1914), I, 33.
               
                  8 Jane F. Smith, "The Use of Federal Records in Writing Local
                        History: A Case Study," Prologue: The Journal of the National
                        Archives, I (Spring, 1969), 51.
            
            
            A need to reexamine and revitalize the writing of Indiana's local history should be obvious
                    to anyone acquainted with the extant literature. Many Indiana county histories are old, written in
                    the last third of the nineteenth century or in the years surrounding the 1916 centennial. Most are
                    heavily biographical (separate biographical sections and indexes are not unusual), but the
                    biographies are normally of the local elite and not of the common laborer or small farmer. Moreover,
                    many local histories, particularly the most recent ones, are flawed by the inclusion of myriad lists
                    (survey data, governmental officials, population figures, etc.) and the absence of careful
                        analysis.9 "History is drab," says the author of a recent
                    Indiana county history.10 That fact alone should indicate the need for applying
                    new techniques to the writing of local history.
            One such technique is the utilization of previously neglected sources. Newspapers and local
                    manuscript collections (normally left by the well educated or well-to-do) are, of course, important
                    historical documents. They should not, however, be used to the exclusion of other valuable
                    materials. As Stephan Thernstrom notes, social history has "depended excessively on
                    evidence which was at one remove from the daily lives of individuals."11 A source which Thernstrom and others have employed to help correct this
                    imbalance—the manuscript federal census—is of particular value to persons
                    interested in local history.
            The term "manuscript census" refers to the forms (called
                    "schedules") that were completed by the census enumerators as they made their
                    rounds. The published census volumes were compiled from the information collected on these forms.
                    These schedules are not rendered worthless, however, simply 
                  
                     9 An addiction to listing is exhibited by Alves John Kreitzer, A History of Northeast 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                      (Dubois, Ind., 1970); Frank S. Campbell, The Story of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , Indiana (
                                Noblesville
                            , Ind., 1962); and A History of 
                                    Warren County
                                , Indiana (n.p., 1966). Kenneth P. McCutchan, From Then
                                Til Now: History of McCutchanville (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969), and Marian McFadden, Biography of a Town: 
                                    Shelbyville
                                , Indiana, 1822-1962 (
                                Shelbyville
                            , Ind., 1968) do not rely as heavily on lists, but neither do they provide much
                            rigorous analysis of the structure and development of their respective communities.
                  
                     10 Kreitzer, A History of Northeast 
                                    Dubois County
                                , iv.
                  
                     11 Stephan Thernstrom, "Quantitative Methods in History: Some
                            Notes," in 
                                Seymour
                             Martin Lipset and Richard Hofstadter, eds., Sociology and History:
                                Methods (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 71.
               
                     because the decennial enumerations of which they were a part
                    have long since been completed. The manuscript census provides a wealth of information for the
                    contemporary student of local history. That this is true has long been recognized by at least a few
                    historians. In a prescient article early in this century Joseph A. Hill called attention to the fact
                    that the published census reports had "by no means extracted everything of value to be
                    derived from … [the census] schedules."12 Barnes Lathrop
                    concurred in 1948 when he described the unprinted census records as "a great neglected
                        source."13
            
            Prior to 1850 the federal censuses were little more than the crude enumeration of population which
                    was mandated by the Constitution. The basic unit in the compilation of the census was the family,
                    and only the household head was actually listed by name. Beginning in 1850, however, the individual became the object of enumeration. Each person (with the exception of
                    slaves) was recorded by name on a separate line of the schedule. It is the detailed information
                    regarding individuals that makes the manuscript census such a valuable aid. Unfortunately, the 1890
                    schedules were almost entirely destroyed by fire, and the 1900 and subsequent returns are still
                    closed to scholarly use by law. Thus, the following discussion is primarily confined to the
                    manuscript censuses of population for the years 1850-1880.14
            
            Although there are slight variations, the information on the population schedules is essentially the
                    same for the four 
                  
                     12 Joseph A. Hill, "The Historical Value of the Census
                            Records," Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the
                                Year 1908 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909), I, 204.
                  
                     13 Barnes F. Lathrop, "History from the Census
                            Returns," Southwestern Historical Quarterly, LI (April, 1948),
                            293.
                  
                     14 General information regarding the history and development of the
                            census may be found in Roland P. Falkner, "The Development of the Census,"
                                Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, XII
                            (July-December, 1898), 358-86; W. Stull Holt, The Bureau of the Census: Its
                                History, Activities and Organization (Institute for Government Research, Service
                            Monographs of the 
                                United States
                             Government No. 53; 
                                Washington
                            , 1929); Hyman Alterman, Counting People: The Census in
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1969); and Ann Herbert Scott, Census, U.S.A.: Fact Finding for
                                the American People, 1790-1970 (
                                New York
                            , 1968). While this paper deals with only the population schedules, it should be
                            noted that other schedules—particularly those dealing with agriculture and
                            manufacturing—are no less valuable for the historian. Lathrop, "History
                            from the Census Returns," 296-99, provides miniature reproductions of all six 1850
                            schedules.
               
                    
                    
                  MANUSCRIPT CENSUS SCHEDULE
                  
                  Reproduced from U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules for 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll 279).
               
                     decennial censuses under consideration. A listing of the
                    information requested on the 1860 schedule provides some idea of the wealth of historical data which
                    may be gleaned from the manuscript censuses for this period: 
                  1. Name
                  2. Age
                  3. Sex
                  4. Color (white, black, or mulatto)
                  5. Profession, occupation, or trade (for those over fifteen years of age)
                  6. Value of real property
                  7. Value of personal property
                  8. Place of birth (state, territory, or country)
                  9. Whether married within the year
                  10. Whether attended school within the year
                  11. Persons over twenty years of age who cannot read or write
                  12. Whether deaf and dumb, blind, insane, idiotic, pauper, or convict.15
                  
               The possibilities for the use of this information are vast, and the suggestions which follow
                    are in no sense exhaustive. As Lathrop comments, "the number of potential correlations
                    within and between censuses is astronomical, [and] no one commentator can pretend to list all the
                    varieties of meritorious census projects."16
            
            At the most basic level the manuscript census can be used to develop a statistical sketch of a
                    community. For example, it is possible to determine with considerable precision what percentage of a
                    village or township population was white or black, native born or foreign born, under thirty or over
                    thirty, and so on. The percentage of the adult population owning real 
                  
                     15 Specific information regarding questions asked on the various
                            schedules and instructions to the census enumerators may be found in Carroll D. Wright and
                            William C. Hunt, The History and Growth of the 
                                    United States
                                 Census (U.S. Serial Set No. 3856; 
                                Washington
                            , 1900). The 1850 and 1860 population schedules are identical except that the
                            former does not include the question regarding personal property. The 1870 schedule requests
                            information regarding nativity of parents (foreign or native born) and divides the literacy
                            question into two sections—"cannot read" and "cannot
                            write." The 1880 schedule omits the questions on property valuation. It adds a
                            column calling for the relationship of each person in the family to the head of the family
                            and also includes questions concerning civil condition (i.e. marital status), unemployment,
                            health, and parents' place of birth.
                  
                     16 Lathrop, "History from the Census Returns,"
                        307.
               
                     property and the average value of that property can be
                    computed. Analysis of nativity information will provide answers regarding the origins of a
                    community's population. The questions dealing with the ability to read and write may be
                    useful in determining literacy rates.17 Drawing up such a statistical sketch, as
                    one eminent historian has observed, releases the local historian "from the domination of
                    literary evidence" and provides him with "a number of useful reference points by
                    which he … [can] orient his narrative."18
            
            Use of the manuscript census can help to reveal relationships masked by the aggregation of census
                    data. For example, the printed census may show that the foreign born comprised twenty per cent of a
                    community's population. An individual doing a political study may therefore conclude that
                    foreigners could exert only minimal political pressure. But analysis of manuscript census
                    information may indicate that the foreign born constituted forty per cent of the adult males (the
                    only group affecting nineteenth century political life). In this case the use of manuscript census
                    data highlights political strength that might otherwse have remained hidden.19
            
            By combining plat maps and information from the manuscript census, it is possible to prepare large
                    scale historical maps of rural areas. Plat maps alone simply portray land parcels on the basis of
                    legal ownership. Tracing the wanderings of the census enumerator in a given township, however,
                    permits a view of the area in terms of farm management units. This procedure not only allows
                    economic data to be mapped at the farm level but also makes it possible to produce visual
                    representations of geographical change over time.20
            
            
               
                  17 Regarding literacy studies see Harvey J. Graff, "Notes on
                        Methods for Studying Literacy from the Manuscript Census," Historical
                            Methods Newsletter, V (December, 1971), 11–16.
               
                  18 Sam Bass Warner, Jr., Streetcar Suburbs: The Process of
                            Growth in 
                                Boston
                            , 1870-1900 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962), 174. This citation is from a very valuable appendix to
                        Warner's volume entitled "A Local Historian's Guide to Social
                        Statistics" (pages 169-78). In a slightly revised and abbreviated form this appendix
                        has been reprinted as Technical Leaflet 7 by the American Association for State and Local
                        History. It is available at nominal cost by writing the AASLH, 1315 Eighth Avenue, South,
                                
                     Nashville, Tennessee
                   37203.
               
                  19 This is one of several uses of the manuscript census discussed by
                        George A. Boeck, "A Historical Note on the Uses of Census Returns," Mid-America, XLIV (January, 1962), 46-50.
               
                  20 For a more detailed discussion of these procedures see Michael P.
                    
            
            
            Investigation of social mobility in a given area is also facilitated by manuscript census use. An
                    individual may be listed in the 1860 census as a common laborer owning no real or personal property.
                    In the 1870 census, however, he may be listed as a carpenter with $1,000 real and
                    $300 personal property. By itself this information may be of little value. But if such
                    patterns recur among many of those who remained in the community for a decade (or a random sample
                    thereof), some conclusions may be drawn regarding the opportunities for advancement in that
                    particular locality.21
            
            The manuscript census also allows researchers to investigate geographic mobility in a given area.
                    This is a subject local historians have almost totally ignored in the past. If the decennial census
                    figures show that a town gained 500 people in a ten year span, the assumption is often made that
                    births and in-migrants must have totalled 500. It is also possible, however, that 5,500 people moved
                    in or were born and 5,000 moved out or died. The net result would be the same, but the effect on the
                    town would certainly be different. In attempts to analyze community life and development, population
                    growth is not necessarily as important as population turnover. By tracing individuals from one
                    census to the next, it is possible to estimate the magnitude of the turnover and to analyze a
                    community's population stability. Moreover, by examining the socioeconomic characteristics
                    (age, occupation, wealth, family size, etc.) of those who migrated and those who remained, it is
                    possible to posit which factors had the greatest influence on geographic mobility and
                        persistence.22
            
            
               Conzen, "Spatial Data From Nineteenth Century Manuscript Censuses: A Technique for
                        Rural Settlement and Land Use Analysis," Professional Geographer, XXI
                        (September, 1969), 337-43. Conzen employs both population and agricultural schedules. 
               
                  21 The historical study of social mobility is a considerably more complex
                        problem than this rather facile example might lead the reader to believe. See, for example,
                        Thernstrom, Poverty and Progress; Stuart Blumin, "Mobility and Change
                        in Ante-Bellum 
                            Philadelphia
                        ," in Thernstrom and Sennett, eds., Nineteenth-Century
                        Cities, 165-208; Stephan Thernstrom, "Immigrants and WASPs: Ethnic Differences in
                        Occupational Mobility in 
                            Boston
                        , 1890–1940," ibid., 125–64; and
                        Worthman, "Working Class Mobility in Birmingham, 
                            Alabama
                        , 1880–1914."
               
                  22 Stephan Thernstrom and Peter R. Knights, "Men in Motion: Some
                        Data and Speculations about Urban Population Mobility in Nineteenth-Century America,"
                            Journal of Interdisciplinary History, I (Autumn, 1970), 7–35.
                        This essay also appears in Hareven, ed., Anonymous Americans,
                        17–47. See also Knights, The Plain People of 
                                Boston
                            , especially
            
            
            As the above paragraphs should make clear, the manuscript census provides a wealth of historical data
                    that is susceptible of many uses. But the census also commends itself to the local historian by
                    virtue of its accessibility. The population schedules have been microfilmed by the National Archives
                    and may be purchased at very moderate cost. Since microfilm readers are becoming increasingly
                    available in public libraries and high schools, use of the manuscript census is rendered feasible
                    even for the individual who is not able to undertake research outside his local community.23
            
            It should not be supposed, however, that the manuscript census constitutes a
                    "supersource" which the historian can use indiscriminately. Census schedules, like
                    other historical sources, must be utilized with caution and an awareness of their limitations.24 It should be recognized at the outset that the census rarely achieved the
                    complete enumeration of population that was one of its primary goals. Human error on the part of the
                    census takers and occasional perversity on the part of the population conspired against total
                    accuracy. 
                  pages 48–77; Thernstrom, Poverty and Progress,
                            84–90; and Howard P. Chudacoff, Mobile Americans: Residential and
                                Social Mobility in 
                                    Omaha
                                , 1880–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1972), especially pages 35–60.
                  
                     23
                            Federal Population Censuses, 1790-1890: A Catalogue of Microfilm Copies of the
                                Schedules (National Archives Publication No. 71–3; 
                                Washington
                            , 1971). This booklet lists the microfilmed schedules available from the
                            National Archives and provides information regarding ordering procedure. A single roll of
                            microfilm costs from $6.00 to $9.00. For the 1850 through 1870
                            censuses one roll frequently contains all the schedules for two or three Indiana counties.
                            For the 1880 census two rolls of microfilm are often required to cover all the schedules of
                            a given county. W. Neil 
                                Franklin
                            , comp., Federal Population and Mortality Census Schedules,
                                1790-1890, in the National Archives and the States: Outline of a Lecture on Their
                                Availability, Content, and Use (National Archives, Special List No. 24; 
                                Washington
                            , 1971), provides information regarding the availability of population and
                            mortality schedules in each state. Pages 23–26 indicate that thirty-seven Indiana
                            libraries hold at least some manuscript census material. It is probable that this list
                            underestimates current holdings since it was compiled on the basis of microfilm publication
                            sales through May, 1969, and questionnaires sent by the National Archives to selected
                            depositories. Indiana University Library (
                                Bloomington
                            ), for example, currently holds more manuscript census material than this
                            booklet suggests. Both publications are available from the Publications Sales Branch (NATS),
                            National Archives (GSA), 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. 20408.
                  
                     24 Census imperfections are considered at length in The
                                Federal Census: Critical Essays (Publications of the American Economic Association,
                            New Series, No. 2; March, 1899). Unfortunately, this critique deals primarily with the no
                            longer extant 1890 census. Wright and Hunt, The History and Growth of the 
                                    United States
                                 Census, and Lathrop, "History from the Census
                            Returns," 304–305, contain some discussion of census
                        shortcomings.
               
                     For example, individuals living in corner houses in cities or
                    towns could easily be overlooked if coordination among the enumerators was poor. Moreover, those
                    individuals moving during the census from an unenumerated area to one already canvassed might not
                    have been recorded.25
            
            Another important source of error resulted from the disinclination of some citizens to cooperate. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper noted the problem during the summer of 1870: 
                        A great deal of difficulty has been experienced by the Assistant Marshals appointed for the
                            purpose of taking the ninth census, owing to the fact that a great part of the population of
                            different counties are very reticent, and reserve information needed and asked for by the
                            Marshals, under the impression that it will be used for the purpose of making out the
                            tax-list, or for other purposes about which the American citizen is naturally sensitive.
                     In an effort to assuage these fears, the newspaper printed a detailed list of the census
                    takers' instructions—especially those portions stressing the confidentiality of
                    census information.26 The effectiveness of this attempted placation was
                    apparently rather minimal since the original 1870 manufacturing returns for 
                        Indianapolis
                     were so defective that a recount was conducted.27
            
            Thus, the fact that an individual was enumerated did not preclude the recording of inaccurate
                    personal data for that respondent. Ambiguities may be discovered even in questions so seemingly
                    straightforward as those regarding age.28 And, as illustrated, fear of the tax
                    collector may sometimes have affected responses dealing with property valuation. In consequence, a
                    healthy respect for the vagaries of human nature is essential for the individual embarking on
                    serious census study.
            Although these caveats must be taken into consideration, they do not negate the value of the
                    manuscript census. Imperfect though it may be, it remains one of the richest 
                  
                     25 Peter R. Knights, "A Method for Estimating Census
                            Under-Enumeration," Historical Methods Newsletter, III (December,
                            1969), 5–8.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), June 16, 1870.
                  
                     27 U. S., Ninth Census, 1870. Vol. III, The Statistics of the Wealth and Industry of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1872), 374, 378.
                  
                     28 Peter R. Knights, "Accuracy of Age Reporting in the
                            Manuscript Federal Censuses of 1850 and 1860," Historical Methods
                                Newsletter, IV (June, 1971), 79–83.
               
                     sources for the student of nineteenth century America. As
                    historians become increasingly interested in the "anonymous" and
                    "inarticulate" members of society, the manuscript census will become a more
                    integral part of their research designs. Few sources, as Lathrop notes, "give so abiding an
                    impression of the overwhelming weight of plain people in American society."29
            
            To date, Indiana's local historians have largely neglected the manuscript census. One
                    example of this neglect is Kenneth P. McCutchan's From Then Til Now: History
                        of McCutchanville, co-published by the Indiana Historical Society and the McCutchanville
                    Community Association. Although McCutchan's work was termed a "model"
                    small town history by one reviewer,30 his narrative leaves the reader with
                    little sense of where the community's population came from subsequent to the original
                    settlement, what the people did for a living, and whether or not they were rich or poor. The word
                    "population" does not appear in the index. Use of the manuscript census would not
                    entirely solve these problems, but it might meliorate them. A cursory examination of the 1870 and
                    1880 schedules for Center Township, 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     (wherein McCutchanville is located), reveals that numerous individuals listed in
                    McCutchan's index also appear on the schedules. Thus, at the least, additional biographical
                    information could be obtained. Moreover, it appears that Center Township had a fairly visible black
                    population, a fact not clearly evidenced by the book. Finally, it might be of some interest that the
                    1870 census enumerator for Center Township was one R. P. McCutchan.31 Admittedly
                    there are problems in situations of this kind. It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to isolate the
                    town completely from the surrounding township when the schedules do not make that distinction. This
                    does not, however, automatically make the manuscript census valueless.
            A notable exception to the statement that Indiana's local historians have ignored the
                    manuscript census is provided 
                  
                     29 Lathrop, "History from the Census Returns," 312.
                  
                     30 The review, by Orville J. Jaebker, appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History, LXVI (June, 1970), 173–74.
                  
                     31 U. S., Ninth Census, 1870, population schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , Indiana. These schedules are contained in National Archives Microfilm
                            Publication No. 593, roll 364.
               
                     by Harold L. O'Donnell's two studies of 
                        Vermillion County
                    .32 The author evinces an awareness both of the value of the census
                    and the problems involved in its use. In addition, he includes at the end of each volume an
                    alphabetized reprint of the name, age, occupation, and birthplace of all residents of his townships
                    as they appear on the 1840–1880 census schedules. This is certain to be a useful aid to
                    anyone following O'Donnell's historical footsteps, and he is to be commended for
                    making this information so readily available.
            It is to be hoped that other local historians will follow O'Donnell's example and
                    will continue to exploit this valuable resource as they examine the nature of nineteenth century
                    society in their own communities. Historical horizons have been broadened in recent years with the
                    advent of the "new" social, economic, and urban history. If fresh techniques and
                    sources (such as use of the manuscript census) begin to be employed by a greater number of those
                    attempting to tell the stories of villages, townships, and counties, perhaps the historical vanguard
                    may acquire another member—the "new" local history.
            
               
                  32 Harold L. O'Donnell, Eugene Township (
                                Vermillion County
                            , Indiana): The First 100 Years, 1824–1924 (
                            Danville
                        , Ill., 1963); and Harold L. O'Donnell, 
                     
                                Newport
                             and Vermillion Township: The First 100 Years, 1824–1924 (
                            Danville
                        , Ill., 1969).
            
         
         
         
            I Remember It This Way
            Philip Todd Holland∗
            
            Dr. Philip Todd Holland, author of the reminiscences which follow, was born in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, March 8, 1905, the son and grandson of medical doctors. Except for brief
                    periods of time, mainly for professional study and service in the 
                        United States
                     Navy in World War II, 
                        Bloomington
                     has always been his home. Holland attended the public schools of his home town,
                    graduating from 
                        Bloomington
                     High School in 1922. His undergraduate study was pursued at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and at 
                        Washington
                     State College, Pullman, 
                        Washington
                    , where he received his bachelor's degree in 1927. In 1931 he was awarded the
                    doctor of medicine degree from 
                        New York
                     University at Bellevue and was licensed to practice medicine in 
                        New York
                    . The following year he obtained his license to practice in Indiana and returned to 
                        Bloomington
                     to enter a partnership with his father, Dr. George Frank Holland. Their partnership was
                    cut short by the latter's death in 1936. During his approximately four years in the Navy
                    during World War II, Philip Holland served principally as a surgeon, including twenty months of sea
                    duty aboard the U. S. S. 
                  
                            Mississippi
                        . In 1950 Holland became a fellow of the International College of Surgeons. He
                    continued his medical practice in 
                        Bloomington
                     until his retirement in 1971.
            
               
                  ∗ The following introduction to Holland's
                        reminiscences has been written by Donald F. Carmony, the editor of the Indiana
                            Magazine of History and an acquaintance of Philip T. Holland for more than two decades.
                        The editor also resided in 
                            Bloomington
                         for various periods of time during the 1930s and 1940s—years which are
                        discussed in this document—and has lived in the city constantly since 1950.
            
            
            Far more than most physicians Holland has participated in many medical, civic, and community
                    activities. He twice served as president of the Owen-
                        Monroe County
                     Medical Society and as president of the Indiana Division of the International College
                    of Surgeons. He sat on the board of directors for both the 
                        Bloomington
                     Rotary (for which he was at one time president) and the 
                        Bloomington
                     Chamber of Commerce. For several terms he was a vestryman at Trinity Episcopal Church.
                    Holland was also twice chosen as president of the Navy League of Indiana; and, succeeding his
                    father, he was secretary of the 
                        Bloomington
                     Water Company. His numerous memberships ranged from medical organizations through the 
                        Bloomington County
                     Club to the Indiana Society of 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Holland has had an amazing variety of interests and hobbies. In his youth he learned to play several
                    musical instruments and was briefly a member of the Drum and Bugle Corps while a student at Indiana
                    University. He has also been interested in stamp collecting and photography. As an adult he came to
                    enjoy deep sea fishing, in part because of the opportunities it gave him to develop his hobby of
                    photography; and he also learned to fly and often flew his own plane. In the early 1960s, when some
                    his age would have been considering retirement, he completed a scuba diving course! In short, as
                    Phil has himself so aptly written in a statement submitted with his reminiscences: "To sum
                    it all up, he loved life, friends, country, and took great pride in his profession, with the avowed
                    intention of living and enjoying living and being proud to let everyone know that was the
                    case."
            As the above sketch and the memoirs which follow make clear, Holland has been intimately associated
                    with 
                        Bloomington
                     and Indiana University since before World War I. Moreover, although Phil came from an
                    established and prominent family and had more opportunities for the "good life"
                    than boys of his generation usually enjoyed, he had many acquaintances among other youth and led
                    anything but a sheltered and secluded life. Phil has long had close acquaintance with persons from
                    widely divergent backgrounds. He understands the vagaries of human nature, knowing that every person
                    is part saint and part sinner. Loving a good story and relishing a prank, whether on another or on
                    himself, he prefers to laugh  with rather than at others. His
                    sense of fair play undoubtedly stems in part from discipline during his youth. As he indicates,
                    "We [Holland, his brother, and sister] were taught early by Dr. Frank that `if you could
                    not take it then you should not dish it out' referring to jokes on ourselves or on anyone
                    else. He taught us that lesson at the cost of an occasional tear on our parts but I am sure it has
                    proved to be one of the most valuable lessons that the three of us learned in our
                        childhood."1 His memory for detail is abundantly illustrated in his
                    reminiscences, while his almost unbelievable accuracy is vouched for by Associate Editor Lorna Lutes
                    Sylvester who checked numerous items as she prepared the notes for the memoirs.
            Holland's recollections are mainly centered on 
                        Bloomington
                     and Indiana University for the period from about 1910 until the 1930s. In 1910, when
                    Phil was a lad of five about ready for school, 
                        Bloomington
                     had a population of 8,838; by 1940 the aggregate had risen to 20,870, and thence to
                    42,890 in 1970.2 Especially in the period before 1940 
                        Bloomington
                     preserved many of its small town ways—ways which were largely the product of
                    decades of a rural and agrarian society which reached back to the town's founding in 1818.
                    Its business life, as Holland's reminiscences bear out, centered around the courthouse
                    square and the immediately surrounding area—with residences of many prominent citizens
                    nearby. Indiana University had been an important part of 
                        Bloomington
                    's history from the 1820s, but in the early twentieth century the university
                    had received only modest national and international acclaim. In the depression ridden thirties 
                        Bloomington
                     maintained close links with its past. The author of this introduction recalls that
                    occasionally a farmer with a team of oxen hitched to a wagon mingled with automobiles on the city
                    streets. The Salvation Army Band often played on the courthouse square. And Holland remembers that "
                        Bloomington
                     for a number of years had a band and had band concerts which were held in the park on
                    3rd St." 
                  
                     1 For quotation see page 237 of the following document.
                  
                     2 U. S., Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                 Taken in the Year 1910: Population. Vol. II, 
                        
                                    Alabama
                                -
                                    Montana
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), 532; U. S., Sixteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1940: Population. Vol. I, Number of Inhabitants (
                                Washington
                            , 1942), 344; U. S., 1970 Census of Population: Number of
                                Inhabitants, Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1971), 16–11.
               
                     These concerts, he writes, "were an institution for a
                    great many years."3 Saturday night was the big shopping night as
                    farmers and townsmen thronged the streets. From about the end of the thirties, however, the old
                    order began to give way to a new one. Especially during the forties the rapid growth of
                    manufacturing, the impact of World War II, the jump in the number of students and faculty at Indiana
                    University, improved roads and transportation facilities, expanding town and campus boundaries, and
                    related developments ushered in a new era with a quickened tempo. Accounts of small town life in
                    Indiana emphasizing the period from roughly 1910 to the 1930s are apparently in short
                    supply—hence reminiscences such as Holland's are worthy of preservation. Though
                    Holland describes the day by day life of people in 
                        Bloomington
                    , what he has to say about early medical practice, experiences during World War I, and
                    changes in transportation are especially useful and graphic. For example, his description of early
                    Model-T's will stir many memories: 
                        We did have Model-T automobiles at that time and they were really something. Each cylinder
                            had its own spark coil and ignition system and they had a three pedal system, reverse, low,
                            high, and a brake, working the transmission system. The gasoline feed was by gravity with
                            the gasoline tank being under the driver's seat. If the grade of a hill was steep
                            enough it became necessary to back up the hill to get up because the
                            gasoline would not run up hill. One interesting thing about the old Model-T's was
                            that they had a full weight-bearing rear axle which meant that if the axie broke the wheel
                            would slide out of the housing and go rolling on down the road… . These old cars
                            had side curtains of heavy fabric with isinglass panels which we called "side
                            curtains" and they could be put on in bad weather. They were made with various
                            kinds of snaps and fasteners so they could be assembled and fastened in place, with an
                            upright rod to go in a tunnel in the curtain, at the opening end of the side doors.4
                  
                    
            
            Holland remembers accompanying his father to a World War I training camp near Hattiesburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    , where the family lived "in a little pine house 30 ft. x 30 ft. with a porch
                    across the front and the back, a make-shift shower on the back porch and a sawdust filled ice box
                    … ." The children at Camp 
                        Shelby
                    , he recalls, had their "own version of trench warfare and fired BB guns, and
                    wore wash basins for helmets, and … had trenches and dugouts there in the red 
                        Mississippi
                    
                    
                  
                     3 For quotation see page 248 of the following document.
                  
                     4 See following page 229.
               
                     dirt." The poignancy of the war was not lost on the
                    youthful Holland. "The sound of `Taps' blown by a bugle in the evening, wafting
                    across the red dirt and pine trees under such circumstances is one," he says,
                    "which will forever after be associated with a thrill in one's spine."
                    When columns of soldiers left for overseas duty, the families who remained at Camp 
                        Shelby
                     "realized many of them would not return, and that would bring a lump in the
                    throat, or a tear to an eye, but no one would acknowledge nor allow it to be seen."5
            
            A chore which Holland—as a doctor's son—"fell heir to fairly
                    early was helping in the reduction of fractures." He also turned the crank which rotated
                    the glass plates on the "impressive huge" X-ray machine—one of the
                    first in the 
                        Bloomington
                     area—which his father had in his office. Holland was his father's
                    chauffeur on night calls and thus "became accustomed to getting … sleep in
                    `catnaps' and having it disturbed without thinking very much about it, at an early
                    age." If he was not needed to hold the coal oil lights while his father performed
                    operations on the kitchen table "as was not too uncommon in those days," Phil
                    "would curl up on the floor of the car beside the hand brake and the gearshift lever which
                    were in the center of the front compartment and utilize the warmth that was coming off the motor
                    … ." Frequently on these night calls the mud in the roads would be "so
                    deep it was up to the running boards which were on the side of the car and up to the axles, and if
                    you stopped or hesitated once, you were `hung up' and that was it!" About early
                    transportation facilities and early medical practice Holland concludes: "We take our
                    communications pretty much for granted now but in those days people used to have to hitch the horse
                    and buggy and drive into town to the doctor's office or home or get him to come out and see
                    a very ill patient. People did not have clinics, hospitals and equipment such as we have now and it
                    was not at all unusual to be awakened at night by someone knocking on the door, with a message of
                        need."6
            
            Holland's reminiscences are also about his family. "Grandmother and grandfather
                    Holland," he writes, "taught their children that `blood is thicker than
                    water' and that `if you 
                  
                     5 Quotations are from following pages 254, 255–56, 256.
                  
                     6 See following pages 262, 231.
               
                     could not depend on your own family then you could not depend
                    on anybody' so they taught a strong bond of solidarity in the family and independence, and
                    reliance … ."7 His grandparents, Philip C. and Ann 
                        Atlanta
                     Holland, appear frequently in his narrative, as do his father, George Frank
                    Holland—whom Holland sometimes refers to as Dr. Frank—and his mother, Margaret
                    Ashby Todd Holland. Philip Holland shared many of his experiences and shares many of his memories
                    with his brother and sister, William Ernest—or Bill—and Elizabeth Chittenden
                    Holland. In 1929 Philip married Ellen Keyser, and to her and their two children, George Frank II and
                    Nancy Ellen, he in part dedicates his reminiscences.
            Phil Holland has produced an intensely personal account. Though written in 1971 and 1972, after his
                    retirement from medical practice, many of the items and episodes related in this document are told
                    in terms of what they meant to him as a boy and are about an earlier era, one which he so much
                    enjoyed. As Phil has put it in the foreward to his reminiscences: 
                        This is a little boy's history of a time and events that are important in his life
                            and the history of the 
                                United States
                            . It has been recorded as he remembers it and with the people, places, and
                            events all presented in the reality they occupied in his life. It has to be personal, for
                            whose story could he tell in that way other than his own? It has been fun to live and to
                            record it and it is done with fondness and appreciation of the people, places and events
                            which meant so much. If you find disagreement as to some time, or place, or event, just
                            remember, the title is "I Remember It This Way." Enjoy a few years with
                            me, will you?
                    
            
            
               
                  7 See following page 235.
            
            Every story must begin someplace and sometime.1 Our story here begins March 8,
                    1905, at night in 
                        Monroe County
                    , Indiana, when a son was born to a young, ambitious dark complexioned, handsome doctor,
                    Dr. George Frank Holland and his wife Margaret Ashby Todd Holland who was an attractive 
                  
                     1 With the concurrence of the author typographical errors and
                            misspellings of proper names have been corrected in the following transcription. Punctuation
                            and capitalization in chapter headings have been standardized. In all other
                            respects—including punctuation, paragraphing, and capitalization—the
                            manuscript which was originally submitted by the author has been reproduced as exactly as
                            possible. Identification of people and places has been attempted, either in footnotes or in
                            brackets
               
                     vivacious blue-eyed blonde haired young woman, well educated in
                    music and literature. This event occurred at the home of Dr. Philip C. Holland and his wife, Ann 
                        Atlanta
                     Holland. The boy was named Philip for his grandfather and Todd was his
                    mother's family name. This birth was accomplished at home because people did not go to the
                    hospital to have babies in those days; in fact, there wasn't any hospital available to use
                    for that purpose. They [Philip C. and Ann 
                        Atlanta
                     Holland] were living in a two story home on the northwest corner of Seventh Street and
                    Walnut where they had resided for some time. They had lived several places in the community since
                    they came to 
                        Bloomington
                     shortly after the Civil War to put their family in school. This was the house they
                    bought and lived in for many years. The community at this time was well established having been
                    incorporated in 1820. The University was incorporated earlier, in 1816, and although University and
                    town were well established neither was of great size.2 The house on 7th St. had
                    large stone steps leading up to the front entrance and a porch on the south and east sides of the
                    house and to the west of the house a storage barn in which was kept a horse and buggy. The carriage
                    barn was a 2 story structure. Under the stairs leading to the second floor there was a two-hole
                    privy. The second story was used for storing tools and various things which my grandfather 
                  in the text, whenever such information seemed needed and was available. The author has
                            dedicated his reminiscences as follows: "To the Todds, Hollands, Chittendens,
                            Keysers, Conceens, Daniels and to my wife Ellen and our children and their children and to
                            the hometown of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, and the people who walk the pages herein, this book is most fondly
                            and appreciatively dedicated."
                  
                     2
                            
                                Monroe County
                             was formed by statute on January 14, 1818. On April 11, 1818, the commissioners
                            selected 
                                Bloomington
                             as the site of the county seat. The town was incorporated in 1845, the
                            incorporation was removed in 1858, and 
                                Bloomington
                             was again incorporated in 1859. George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 600–607. History of Lawrence and Monroe
                                Counties, Indiana: Their People, Industries and Institutions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 386–87. According to the census of 1900 
                                Bloomington
                            's population was 6,460; by 1910 the city had grown to 8,838
                            inhabitants. U.S., Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                 Taken in the Year 1910. Vol. II, Population (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), 532. On January 19, 1820, the Indiana General Assembly enacted a law
                            creating Indiana State Seminary, later to become Indiana University. In approximately 1825
                            classes began in the newly constructed buildings in 
                                Bloomington
                            . Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University, Midwestern Pioneer: The
                                Early Years (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970), 24, 25, 30–31. According to the student yearbook of 1905,
                            1,538 students were enrolled at Indiana University under the tutelage of seventy-one faculty
                            members. The Arbutus (n.p., 1905), 10.
               
                     father owned and needed to have. The house was well built of
                    frame construction and nice in appearance and there were four fireplaces of cast metal in the house
                    with wood framework but the house was heated by hot water radiators which at that time were
                    furnished hot water by a central heating system which served a number of structures in that downtown
                    area. The house was a block from the northeast corner of the square, the north side of which was
                    formed by 6th St. and the east side of which was formed by Walnut St. In back of the house there was
                    a cistern which provided the drinking water for the family and there was a large fire cistern which
                    was one part of the city's fire protection which consisted of a series of fire cisterns of
                    water located at the strategic places in the city. Wells and springs were sometimes sources of water
                    in the area but at this time it was beginning to be discovered, because of the limestone formations
                    in this area, that the water from these sources could not be depended upon to be healthy and was the
                    source of serious illness and bad health, because drainage entered from barns, privies, etc. and the
                    germ theory was only beginning to be accepted and people were only beginning to learn that germs
                    caused disease.
            The city's fire house was on Walnut St. on the east side of the block between 6th and 7th.
                    The old fire bell, which now stands in the city park, could be heard whenever there was a fire.3 Wicks "Bee Hive" which was on the north side of the public
                    square was a big department store at that time and old "Cap" [Captain W. J.]
                    Allen, a Civil War Veteran had a hardware store on the south side of the square where the old Civil
                    War Veterans gathered and swapped stories and Kahn Clothing Company was located on the south side of
                    the square and above their establishment was the Masonic Lodge Hall. John W. O'Harrow had a
                    drugstore on the south side of the square where he sold all the many varieties of drugs that were
                    sold at that time from the pharmacy of that period. He also sold whiskey, wallpaper and other
                    things. This was quite a large store and was located approximately where Hewitt's Rexall
                    Pharmacy is now.4
            
            
               
                  3 The old fire bell is located in the city park south of Third Street
                        between 
                            Washington
                         and 
                            Lincoln
                         streets.
               
                  4 Biographies of many of the people mentioned in these reminiscences can
                        be found in History of Lawrence and Monroe Counties, 460–764. Also
                    
            
            
            
               DR. and MRS. GEORGE FRANK HOLLAND 1904
               Courtesy Philip Todd Holland.
            
            
            There were no paved streets.5 They were either crushed stone or dirt. They were
                    all tree lined on both sides of the street with the town having many narrow streets many of which
                    can still be seen in the southeast portion of town. These were narrow streets with deep gutters at
                    the intersections, and were made primarily for horse and buggy traffic.
            Gas lighting was coming into use in homes in the city6 and electricity which is
                    now a household item had not yet become very popular. Coal oil lights were used for lighting. Most
                    houses were heated by stoves, grates, or fireplaces of one sort or another, central home heating not
                    being very popular except for the Municipal Central water heating system which I mentioned earlier
                    which served, among other buildings, the one on the corner of 7th and Walnut.
            Dr. Philip C. Holland and Dr. George Frank Holland had their office in the old building on the east
                    side of College Ave. between the alley and the corner of 7th and College. Between the alley and the
                    office there was the first motion picture theater established in town, an open air one, which ran
                    such movies as came out when they were first developed. Later, across the street the Crescent
                    Theater was built and was more nearly like our current motion picture theaters. The post office was
                    located on the west side of the street along the alley and towards 6th St. Dr. Philip and Dr. Frank
                    Holland had their office listed as Drs. Holland & Holland in a frame building with a railed
                    porch around the front of it and in the south two rooms of this building an optician by the name of
                    Dr. Luck fitted and ground glasses and made up spectacles for people. On Sunday he preached at the
                    old Campbellite Church which was way out on North Indiana above 10th St. at that 
                  useful for identifying individuals and locating places of business are the 
                                Bloomington city
                             directories. See, for example, Commercial Directory Company, comp., 
                        
                                    Bloomington City
                                 Directory and 
                                    Monroe County
                                 Gazetteer for 1911–1912 … (
                                Marion
                            , Ind., n.d.); Caron's Directory of the City of 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind. for 1913–1914 … (Vol. I; 
                                Louisville
                            , 1913); Caron's Directory of the City of 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana And Taxpayers of 
                                    Monroe County
                                 for 1916–1917–1918 … (Vol. II; 
                                Louisville
                            , 1916). For a further discussion of the O'Harrow family see page 213
                            of this article.
                  
                     5 According to one county history 
                                Bloomington
                             had only two and one half miles of brick paved streets in 1913. History of Lawrence and Monroe Counties, 388.
                  
                     6 In 1880 
                                Bloomington
                             officials granted permission for gas works to be erected and pipes to be laid
                            through the city's streets. Ibid.
                  
               
                     time.7 Dr. Luck was a small man who was
                    dark complexioned and very studious in his appearance and industrious about his work and it was
                    always fascinating to watch the machinery that he had to grind the glass into the lenses that he was
                    making. This he did in the back room of the two rooms which he occupied. Drs. Holland occupied the
                    rest of the office and it was typical of doctors' offices of that period with cabinets and
                    containers for powders, pills, ointments, liquids and various things of that sort and they did most
                    of their compounding and preparing special preparations of one kind or another according to the
                    pharmacology of the day.
            
               
                        Bloomington
                     was the County Seat of 
                        Monroe County
                    . The courthouse occupied the center of the square and on Saturday all the farmers would
                    come in and park their rigs around the hitching racks which surrounded the courthouse on the four
                    sides and there were water troughs for the horses to get water. Shopping was then done at the
                    various stores and establishments, so it was the typical "county seat." The town
                    was very busy Saturday and Saturday night. The first recollection I have of occupants of the house
                    north of my grandfather's home were Erle Showers and his wife. Then the house next to that
                    was occupied by Mr. DeMoss and his family. He ran a very respectable, nice saloon, I was told, which
                    was down on Kirkwood near the railroad tracks.8 The railroad ran through the
                    town north and south between 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     and, of course, when the train came in each day the horses and buggies would go to the
                    station and people who 
                  
                     7 William L. Luck, optician, was for a number of years pastor of the
                            University Park Christian Chapel located on Eleventh Street at the northeast corner of
                            Indiana Avenue. See 
                        
                                    Bloomington City
                                 Directory for 1911–1912, 125; Caron's
                                Directory for 1913–1914, 17–18, 178; Caron's Directory for 1916–1918, 17, 198.
                  
                     8 E#2 H. Showers was the son of Charles H. Showers, one of three
                            brothers who owned Showers Brothers Company. During the early twentieth century this firm
                            was considered the largest furniture making factory in the world. Dale Dillon, Thoughts Concerning the 60th Anniversary of Showers Brothers Company (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1928), 8; see also Louis H. Orzack, "Employment and Social Structure:
                            A Study of Social Change in Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Sociology,
                            Indiana University, 1953), 80, 81, passim. For a further discussion of the
                            Showers family see page 219 of this article. For a brief time during the early twentieth
                            century Enos S. DeMoss and W. H. Troutman were co-owners of Troutman and DeMoss, a saloon
                            located at 212 West Kirkwood Avenue. See 
                        
                                    Bloomington City
                                 Directory for 1911–1912, 67, 187; Caron's Directory for 1913–1914, 100.
               
                    
                    
                  MONROE COUNTY COURTHOUSE, 1922
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922), 22.
               
                    
                    
                  EAST SIDE of BLOOMINGTON SQUARE LOOKING TOWARD INDIANA UNIVERSITY, C. 1915–1916
               
                    
                  WEST SIDE of BLOOMINGTON SQUARE LOOKING NORTH ALONG COLLEGE AVENUE, C. 1920
                  Courtesy Indiana University Museum, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     were within walking distance would go down to see who was
                    coming in on the train and who was leaving town to go some place and this was one of the big events
                    of the day.9
            
            Philip C. Holland had graduated from the Ohio Eclectic Medical College in 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , which later became University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     Medical College, and realizing the inadequacies of the medical education of that time
                    he went to 
                        New Orleans
                     to Tulane University to do post graduate work there and later went to Bellevue Hospital
                    Medical College in 
                        New York City
                     to further his post graduate work there. At that time he was probably the best
                    medically educated doctor in practice in the community. His son, Dr. Frank Holland, had gotten his
                    PhG. degree in Pharmacy in 
                        New York
                    , and worked as a pharmacist to go to medical school because his father was not willing
                    to put him through medical school because he said it was too rough a life and he didn't
                    think that it was a good idea but Frank was determined to go and he did.10 He
                    and his wife, Margaret Todd, when they first met were undergraduates at Indiana University and as I
                    am told they were introduced to each other initially by Oscar Cravens and his wife Bird who were
                    slightly older than they at that time.11
            
            An old couple by the name of Toby and Eliza Batterton were living in a big solid brick house at 514
                    N. College Avenue and Dr. Frank was their medical attendant. He asked them that when they were ready
                    to sell their house they let him have the first chance to buy it. In about 1906 or 1907 he bought
                    the old brick house on North College between 9th and 10th and it was on 2 lots which were just north
                    of the one lot which was occupied by the old United Presbyterian Church. The Woodburn house which is
                    still standing, by the way, was right across the street from it and was a somewhat older
                        structure.12
                    
                  
                     9 The first rail line reached 
                                Bloomington
                             in the fall of 1853. In 1897 this railroad became part of the system
                            incorporated under the name The 
                        Chicago,
                                    Indianapolis
                      and 
                                Louisville
                             Railway Company, more popularly known as the Monon. See Frank F. Hargrave, A Pioneer Indiana Railroad: The Origin and Development of the Monon (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932), 90, 196–97, passim.
                  
                  
                     10 For further information concerning the early medical training of
                            George Frank Holland see John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), IV, 624–25.
                  
                     11 For a further discussion of Oscar H. and Bertha Cravens see page
                            210.
               
                     A still older structure was at the corner of 8th and College on
                    the northeast corner. It was old Allen home which was partially two story with a lot of porch around
                    it and of brick construction and a large yard and occupied two full lots. The site is now occupied
                    by the A & P Grocery Store. The house north of the Batterton home which was purchased, was a
                    large frame house occupied by Mr. & Mrs. [Nathaniel Usher] Hill, the parents of Nat. U. Hill
                    and Philip B. Hill. Mrs. Hill resided there for quite a few years after the death of her husband.
                    Across the street from that and just north of the old Woodburn house was a house owned by Mr.
                    & Mrs. John Dolan who had some rooms there for student girls to stay during the time that my
                    mother and father were in school at Indiana University. Across the street from the United
                    Presbyterian Church and on the second lot from the northwest corner of 9th St. and College Avenue
                    there was a little 2 story house which was quite old, and was occupied by one of 
                        Bloomington
                    's first dentists, Dr. Joseph Crain, or John, I am not sure which.13 His widow occupied it for him a long time after his death and when I was a
                    youngster she used to delight my stomach by inviting me over to have the remaining portions of pie
                    crust which she had left when she would bake pies which she would sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar
                    and, of course, that was a delight to a little boy's tongue and eyes. To the east of the
                    [United] Presbyterian Church on the north corner of 9th and Walnut was the Presbyterian Church
                    parsonage and one of my most memorable and enjoyable characters was Rev. Thomas [H.] Hanna who lived
                    there. He was a bachelor, gentle, tall and handsome. When we were children we used to go to his
                    church 
                  
                     12 A description and pictures of the Woodburn house, now owned by
                            Indiana University, can be found in "Season's Greetings from Our Houses to
                            Your Houses," Indiana Alumni Magazine, XXXIV (December, 1971),
                            5-15. In 1934 James A. Woodburn, who was professor of history at Indiana University in the
                            early twentieth century, wrote a description of the house as it was in his youth for then
                            Indiana University President Herman B Wells. James A. Woodburn to Herman B Wells, December,
                            1934, President's Office (Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     13 The first Nathaniel U. Hill was the grandfather of the present
                            Judge Nat U. Hill of the 
                                Monroe County
                             Circuit Court, State of Indiana. Dentist John W. Crain and his wife Hattie
                            lived at 509 North College Avenue during the early years of the twentieth century. Dr.
                            Grain's office was located in the Buskirk Building at 1151/2 West Kirkwood Avenue.
                                
                        
                                    Bloomington City
                                 Directory for 1911–1912, 61; Caron's
                                Directory for 1913–1914, 70, 89.
               
                     and Sunday School sometimes and then we also went to the other,
                    First Presbyterian Church. Occasionally Dr. W. L. Bryan used to preach at the Presbyterian Church at
                    that corner.14
            
            Dr. Bryan lived up the street, the second house south of the Illinois Central Railroad station on the
                    east side of College Ave. and he and his wife could be seen through the years driving his horse and
                    buggy wherever they were going and they were friendly and pleasant neighbors. President Bryan was a
                    very memorable character. He had a good sense of humor and enjoyed a joke as well as anyone
                    although, of course, nothing "off color" in the way of a joke. He took part in all
                    the activities of the community and was a very public spirited person as well as being active as
                    President of the University. He and other people such as Dr. Robert [E.] Lyons of the Chemistry
                    Department and many others, combined with a lot of the townspeople who got tired of having 
                        Bloomington
                     have a water shortage every summer due to the building of the series of lakes southwest
                    of 
                        Bloomington
                     where the land was such that it would not hold water and decided they would build a
                    waterworks lake up north of town where the geologist told them that the land was such that water
                    could be held there.15 He was very instrumental in forming the 
                        Bloomington
                     Rotary Club. Walter Woodburn was one of the founding members of the Rotary Club and
                    told me that when he was talking to Dr. Bryan about the club that Dr. Bryan was in the store which
                    Walter was running at the time and he said "you know, Walter, after all it is a good idea
                    to have a Rotary Club."16 "We will have people from the
                    university 
                  
                     14 William Lowe Bryan, professor of philosophy at and later president
                            of Indiana University, attended and frequently took part in church services at the First
                            Presbyterian Church An the corner of Sixth and 
                                Lincoln
                             streets. Mrs. Floyd G. Arpan and Joseph 
                                Kingsbury
                            , comps., Between Then and Now, 1819–1969: 150 Years of
                                Presbyterians in Perspective … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1969), 53–54, passim.
                  
                     15 For a discussion of the development of an adequate water supply for 
                                Bloomington
                             and Indiana University see Burton Dorr Myers, History of Indiana
                                University, 1902–1937: The Bryan Administration (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1952), 270–90.
                  
                     16 The Rotary Club is first mentioned as one of 
                                Bloomington
                            's service clubs in the city directory of 1927–1928. The
                            same directory lists Walter F. Woodburn as a salesman for the Mid-Continent Petroleum
                            Company. Winthrop Williams' 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana City Directory, 1927–1928 … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1927), 91, 211, 287. A later directory, 1931-1932, describes Woodburn as
                            manager of the Arro-Lock Roofing Company. Caron's 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind. City Directory for 1931–1932 … (Vol. VI; 
                                Louisville
                            , 1931), 397.
               
                     in there and we will have people from the town in there and the
                    townspeople will learn that not all the university people are a bunch of "nitwits"
                    and the university people will learn that not all the people downtown are a bunch of ignoramuses
                    either." They both laughed about this. One of his [Bryan's] quotes was about one
                    of the local denizens, one of the natives, of whom we had many in those days, and many of whom were
                    illiterate, not necessarily unintelligent but illiterate. They were discussing
                    down on the square the faculty at the university and he said "why dang nabit, a lot of
                    those guys don't know a damn thing but what they have learned" which of course
                    meant to imply that he did not think that they had any common sense although they might be very
                    learned people. Dr. Bryan's wife was a recluse and as far as I know took no particular part
                    in any of the activities of the community or the university other than the barest minimum. She was
                    very rarely seen in public. It was well known by everyone that Dr. Bryan, a very brilliant, able,
                    and scholarly man could say more in a speech of about 5 minutes duration than almost anyone else
                    could in an hour. His consideration for public opinion and public relations for the University were
                    evidenced during W.W. I when he had some professors who were of 
                        German
                     stock and he made sure that they went out in the community selling Liberty Bonds and
                    speaking on behalf of the cause because anti-
                        German
                     feeling ran very high during W.W. I at that time. I was fortunate enough a few years
                    later to become well acquainted with his brother, E. A. Bryan, who was an entirely different person
                    but equally brilliant and able and who had been the first President of 
                        Washington
                     State College at Pullman, 
                        Washington
                    .17 I was very flattered quite some years later when he was
                    accompanied by a friend, because he was no longer able to see, and he was in 
                        Bloomington
                     and paid me a call for the purpose of 
                  
                     17 Enoch Albert Bryan served as president of 
                                Vincennes
                             University from 1882 to 1893. He was president of 
                                Washington
                             Agricultural College and School of Sciences (now the State College of 
                                Washington
                            ) at Pullman, 
                                Washington
                            , from 1893 to 1916. After serving as commissioner of education for the state of
                            Idaho between 1917 and 1923, Bryan returned to the State College of 
                                Washington
                             as research professor of economics and economic history. He died in 1941. Who Was Who in America, 1897–1942 (4 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1942), I, 157. In 1924 Philip Todd Holland received his Bachelor of Science
                            degree in chemistry from the State College of 
                                Washington
                            . Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, IV, 625.
               
                     having a visit. I knew W. L. all of my life, as long as I knew
                    anyone.
            The Alex Hirsch family occupied the next house on the east side of College Ave. at 11th from the
                    corner house that was occupied by the Mose Kahn family of the Kahn Clothing Company. Alex Hirsch was
                    in the same company and later bought it. The next house was owned by Jeff Kemp who was an auctioneer
                    in 
                        Bloomington
                     at that time who had 2 daughters and a son. Next then was the house owned by [H.]
                    Walter Collins which was on the east side along the alley, and it was a very fine frame home. He was
                    an old Civil War Veteran who ran a grocery store [Collins-Seidle Company] below Kirkwood on the west
                    side of College Ave. On the other side of the street at the corner of 11th and College was the
                    [George W.] Bollenbacher house and the next one was a house occupied by Prof. [James M.] Van Hook.
                    He had a daughter, Peggy and a son, James. Below this was Oscar Cravens and his wife Bird's
                    home and next house was the home of Mr. & Mrs. W[illiam] T. Bowles. He was the owner and
                    manager of Bowles drugstore and the Bowles Hotel. The hotel was on the corner of 6th and College,
                    and his drugstore was on the corner of 5th and College where the new First National Bank Building
                    now stands. This [the drugstore] was destroyed by fire in some later years. Just below this building
                    was the "Telephone" [
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Telephone] newspaper office and building. This was owned by W [alter] S. Bradfute
                    then by Elaine W. Bradfute and then later his sons who took over and operated the paper. Oscar
                    Cravens at that time was President of the 
                        Monroe County
                     Bank and the publisher of the Evening World which was the other daily newspaper at the
                    time and that was published in the building on the south side of 4th St. between College and Walnut.
                    That building is still there.
            The telephone was just coming into use widely at this time and "The Hello Girls"
                    site of operation was on the second floor of the building at the northwest corner of the square
                    where the Betty Jean Shop is now located.18 Fred Shoemaker was the manager of
                    the Telephone Company at this 
                  
                     18 In 1881 
                                Bloomington
                             officials granted permission for telephone poles to be erected and wire to be
                            stretched over the city streets. History of Lawrence and Monroe Counties,
                            388.
               
                    
                    
                  ABOVE, BLOOMINGTON POST OFFICE, 1922; LEFT, OSCAR H. CRAVENS, POSTMASTER AND EDITOR;
                  BELOW, BLOOMINOTON
                            World AND Courier OFFICES
                  
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922), 124, 167.
               
                     time. His son, John, was a friend and contemporary of mine
                    among numerous other young people we'll mention later. On the east side of the square among
                    other institutions was the [Kadison and Wolf] clothing store run by Joe Kadison. He had a son named 
                        Seymour
                     who was in school with me for a while and Joe was a short, heavy set, bald, round
                    headed man who was one of the local characters and his store was one of the local institutions in
                    town. Another institution in the community was Benckarts Bakery. They were located on the west side
                    of College below the alley between 4th and Kirkwood. They lived upstairs over the bakery and were a 
                        German
                     family who ran an excellent bakery. They had candies and other things there also but
                    this was a part of the picture of the community. At another time a man by the name of Tony Coyle ran
                    a bakery [Coyle and Company] near there. He had two boys who were in school, one a little older than
                    I and one about the same age. He ran a bakery there between the alley and 4th St. on the west side
                    of College Avenue. There was a bakery run on the south side of Kirkwood west of the alley between
                    Kirkwood and 
                        Washington
                     known as Henry & Kerr Bakery. This was a very good place to get bread, cakes
                    and pastries and things of that sort and I used to love to go down there, being sent by my mother,
                    to get their twists or coiled rolls with the real "gooey" topping on them. We
                    children loved that immensely. That was a wonderful treat. At a later date in approximately the same
                    location only a little bit west of it a man by the name of Roy Beard ran the Blue Lantern Restaurant
                    which started out as sort of a Chinese restaurant in a way and was popular for some years.
            E [dward] J. Porter used to run a shoe repair shop [Red Star Shoe Shop] on the west side of College
                    Avenue between the alley and 4th St. and he was an interesting character and his establishment was
                    one of the places in the community that was well known and highly utilized. He was a huge man with a
                    great big voice and he loved practical jokes. I remember going in one time to get heels put on my
                    shoes. You could sit there in his shop while he did the half soling or put the new heels on and as
                    an example of his practical jokes he handed me a book and said "here you can read this
                    while you are waiting for the shoes to get fixed." I opened the book and when I did it was
                    a blank with just a cover on it and the  little mouse trap
                    inside sprung and set off a little cap pistol firing mechanism inside and he was greatly amused
                    because of the fact that I did not jump or exclaim about it, and simply started looking the thing
                    over to find out how it worked. That was one of the amusing incidents I remember. He was a man well
                    known around town and some of his relatives are still living in town. The Souders brothers
                    [Wall—or Wallace— and James G.] ran a meat market at the corner of 4th and
                    College, northwest, which was a very notable meat market and they ran a very good store which was
                    utilized by the community and was one of the places that you knew about.
            The O'Harrow Pharmacy was originally on the south side of the square approximately where the
                    Hewitt Pharmacy is now and was run by John W. O'Harrow and they lived on Walnut St. between
                    8th and 9th on the west side of the street. There were John and Margaret and Edgar who were older
                    than any of my contemporaries but they were a very lovely family and we all knew them. As a matter
                    of incidental interest Mrs. O'Harrow used to save the children's books that her
                    family had read such as Tom Swift and the Rover Boys and books of that sort which
                    were current then and pass them on to us.19 Later on, William H. Stoute who had
                    been an employee of O'Harrow's started a drugstore on the west side of the square
                    below the alley on College between 5th and 6th and Orville Beard married Alice Stoute who was the
                    daughter of Mr. Stoute, having started there as an apprentice pharmacist and he ran a very
                    successful store which was later moved up to the Graham Hotel building at the northwest corner of
                    6th and College when that was built and Orville Beard continued this institution as
                    Stoute's Pharmacy for a great many years. Orville Beard is still around town.
            One of the other institutions and characters of the community was Carl Breeden. Carl Breeden ran
                    Breeden's Department Store [now Aldens] which was located on the northeast corner of 6th
                    and College Avenue on the square and Carl was a bachelor and appeared rather gruff and abrupt in his
                    ways and yet he ran a very delightful store and his 
                  
                     19 During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries Edward L.
                            Stratemeyer wrote a large number of adventure books for boys. Included among his works were
                            the Tom Swift series, written under the pseudonym Victor Appleton, and the Rover Boys
                            series, written under the pseudonym Arthur M. Winfield.
               
                    
                    
                  The Home of Good Groceries and Meats, Fresh and Cured. Corner College Avenue and Fourth
                            Street
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922). 161.
               
                     help was very gracious and it was a good department store for
                    the community in those days. I remember my contact with Carl when I was in high school. I was the
                    business manager of the school newspaper, The Optimist, which I mention later, I believe,20 and I was around the square gathering ads from the various merchants and
                    people about the town to run in our little high school newspaper and remember my first interview
                    with Carl very well because I went in to see Carl and he looked at me in a not too
                        hostile expression and wanted to know what I wanted and I stood up and talked to him, and
                    when he "barked," I "barked" right back and we got to be very
                    good friends. I always thought a greal deal of Carl Breeden. He had a sister named Carrie and his
                    mother was a lovely lady who lived down on the west side of South College north of second street in
                    their old home.
            CHARACTERS
            Among the characters in 
                        Bloomington
                     who were memorable certain ones being the subject of stories and legend there were, of
                    course, some of the townspeople and as is always the case in universities some of the
                    "absent-minded professors" and persons of that sort. The long-time Dean of Men of
                    the University, Dean [Clarence E.] Pat Edmond-son, and his wife bought an old Model-T Ford and it
                    became a fixture around town. I don't remember how many years they drove it but it was one
                    of the old jobs with the brass trimming and they drove it for so many years that it became a legend.
            Dean Eigenmann was a zoologist who, among other things, had discovered the blind fish in Lost River
                    down in southern Indiana and was a very learned man but he was one of the absent-minded professors
                    about whom the stories were told.21 Someone told of having gone to his house one
                        
                  
                     20 See pages 241–42.
                  
                     21 Carl H. Eigenmann was professor of zoology and director of the
                            Biological Station at Indiana University. In 1908 he was appointed first dean of the
                            Graduate School. Eigenmann studied and wrote many books and articles about the evolution of
                            blind fish, including those in Lost River, near Paoli, in 
                                Orange County
                            , Indiana, and those in the cave and underground stream on the Donaldson farm in
                            Lawrence County. The Donaldson Cave later became part of Spring Mill State Park. See, for
                            example, Carl H. Eigenmann and Charles H. Brown, The Fishes of Indiana
                            (Reprint from the State Fish Commissioner's Report; 
                                Indianapolis
                            ,
               
                     day and seeing him fastening a metal ceiling onto the ceiling
                    of one of his rooms in his house and asked him what he was doing that for. He said "when it
                    rains there is a leak up there."
            One of the early town characters who was a proverbial "character about town" was a
                    man by the name of Eddie Collins. Eddie was one of these mathematical freaks whose general
                    intelligence was very low but he could do various things mathematically that would astound you. For
                    instance he would be able to stand alongside the Monon Railroad tracks and watch a train of railroad
                    cars go by and give you the numbers of all the cars that had gone by. He would give you the dates
                    and the day of the week that the dates occurred on in various years and things of that sort. He was
                    a legendary person.
            The Kalikak family was one of the institutions around 
                        Bloomington
                     for a long time. They were a family with inborn defects of mentality, speech, etc. and
                    had been going on for a long time. They had quite a number of children and were studied by numerous
                    psychologists, sociologists, genealogists, etc. at the university, and classes were taken out to
                    observe this group as a study of the hereditary traits.22
            
            In the early days of the university there were some interesting characters, one in particular, a very
                    proper Bostonian who was very fastidious about his dress and who was in the English Department and
                    was nicknamed by the people and the students as "Dudey" Brooks.23 The story is told that 
                  n.d.). See also Myers, History of Indiana University, 8, 207,
                            353–60, 584, 640.
                  
                     22 For approximately the first two decades of the twentieth century
                            public and professional persons became "virtually hysterical over the menace of the
                            feebleminded." Several unscientific, now completely discredited studies, such as
                            those of the Juke and Kallikak families, demanded that society be protected from individuals
                            of very low mentality. Feeblemindedness was "proved" hereditary and was
                            considered the root of all evils. It was suggested that the feebleminded should be
                            destroyed, isolated, or sterilized before they destroyed society. Albert Deutsch, ed., Encyclopedia of Mental Health (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1963), 1189. Kallikak was the fictitious name assigned to a feebleminded
                            family in 
                                New Jersey
                             which was the subject of an intensive sociological study during the early
                            twentieth century. See Henry Herbert Goddard, The Kallikak Family: A Study in
                                the Heredity of Feeble-mindedness (2nd ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1935). The people in 
                                Monroe County
                             to whom Holland refers might have been termed Kallikak because some individuals
                            felt that they resembled the family in 
                                New Jersey
                            .
                  
                     23 Albert 
                                Mansfield
                             Brooks was professor of fine arts at Indiana University during the late
                            nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Clark,
               
                     "Dudey" decided to have a date with a young
                    lady and for that purpose he went and rented a rig, namely a horse and buggy, and he took the reins
                    and flipped them on the back of the horse and said "commence!" On another occasion
                    there was a fire in the building in which he was living and he was seen sticking his head out the
                    window of the building yelling "conflagration, conflagration."
            Another story concerns old Mr. Atwater, I don't remember which one, and it does not really
                    make any difference but he was proverbially a very penurious individual. About this time soda
                    fountains were coming into fashion and he was at a place where there was a soda fountain and saw a
                    friend or acquaintance who said "have a soda with me?" He said "well if
                    it is all the same to you I think I'll have a lead pencil."
            Then there was a professor of law by the name of Amos Hershey who was a very lovable man and very
                    much liked in the community but he was the perfect example of the absent-minded professor.24 The stories about him were legend. One of them was to the effect that his
                    wife was calling all over campus one morning, "have you seen Amos this morning, does he
                    look all right and did you notice anything different about him ?" This went on with several
                    people and she finally found someone who had seen him on his way to his office who reported that he
                    looked perfectly normal and that there was not anything abnormal about him. It turned out that he
                    had not put on a pair of pants that she laid out for him to put on that day but had, on his own,
                    bought a pair of pants from the clothing store the day before and wore those! One of the women who
                    served as a secretary for him told the story on him that while he was giving a lengthy dictation to
                    her, her handbag was on the desk and without interrupting the dictation at all he proceeded to give
                    her all the dictation of material that he wanted her to type and just quietly and methodically while
                    he was doing this, opened her handbag and laid out all the articles in the handbag on the desk,
                    counted the change in 
                  
                     Indiana University, 297; Mayers, History of Indiana
                                University, 9, 578, passim.
                  
                  
                     24 Amos Shartle Hershey was professor of history and political science
                            at Indiana University during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Clark, Indiana University, 343; Myers, History of Indiana University, 8, 578, passim.
                  
               
                     the change purse and made note of all the items and returned
                    them carefully to the handbag and closed it apparently not realizing what he was doing at all as he
                    was so concentrated on what he was dictating. One of the funniest stories about him is what happened
                    with him and my father and W. L. Bryan. There was a luncheon and the three were seated at the dinner
                    table or luncheon table with Professor Hershey in the middle and soup was the first course. They
                    were conversing before the start of the luncheon and Amos took his spoon and quickly ate all the
                    soup in the soup plate and put the spoon down and went on talking with the two men one on each side
                    of him. One of them winked at the other one and took the empty plate from in front of Professor
                    Hershey and substituted his own full plate in front of the professor. In a few moments the professor
                    looked down and made a motion of his head and took the spoon and ate the soup. Then the other one
                    engaged him in conversation and they repeated the process. By the time he had finished the third
                    bowl of soup the luncheon came on and he said "I don't know if I want any lunch,
                    that soup was remarkably filling!" Another time Dr. Frank Holland was
                    called over to Professor Hershey's house to take care of him. He was told that Amos was
                    seriously injured and needed his attention. The doctor went over to see him and found him lying in
                    his driveway at his home. His wife had been driving the car and he was lying there chuckling over
                    the fact that he had broken his leg. Seeing the doctor arrive he was chuckling about it (although of
                    course he was in great pain) and he said "you know Frank I told her to back the car out of
                    the garage and I just forgot to take my leg out of the way after I had opened the door." So
                    that was one of the people who was the subject of many stories.
            In those days speech was not as frank and open as it has become since then and we were very amused
                    when one of the women from one of the farms about town called in in great distress and being very
                    careful in her choice of words said "My husband needs Dr. Frank badly."
                    "He has just been prodded by a gentleman cow." Another woman was calling and
                    asking Margaret Holland something about a patient who had had a surgery which Dr. Frank had done and
                    Dr. Frank was not available nor would he be for a period of time and so Margaret Holland referred
                    the patient's call to Dr. Rodney  Smith.25 It so happened that Dr. Rodney Smith gave the anesthetics in those days and worked with
                    the other doctors in the community in that respect. The lady's reply was "why
                    would I call him he was only the anesthetic wasn't he?"
            THE OLD NEIGHBORHOOD
            Along North Walnut St. going north on the east side of the street above eighth there were two houses
                    which were built by two of the Showers brothers just south of the corner of 9th Street on Walnut.
                    Then just north of the same intersection was a house owned by Sim Freese, who was associated with
                    the local public utilities and gas company and just north of that was the house of John Hoadley,
                    father of Mason and Albert and Bill and Ed.26 Just north of that was a house
                    owned by Ed Showers who was of the same Showers family.27 The house north of
                    that was owned by Sanford Teter which is now an insurance company office, and he and his wife, Nell,
                    lived there with their daughter and son. On the corner the two story frame house was occupied by
                    Rev. Will Wylie whose son Jeff and daughter Kathryn and a son Lawrence were all contemporaries in
                    one way or another. On the northeast corner of 10th and Walnut was a house occupied by the [George
                    C.] Poolitsan family. They had come to 
                        Bloomington
                     to operate the candy store and soda fountain on the east side of the square which was
                    approximately where Wiles Drug Company now is. Various members of the family are living 
                  
                     25 For additional information about Dr. Smith see page 265.
                  
                     26 Both Simeon C. Freese and members of the John W. Hoadley family
                            were affiliated with various limestone companies near 
                                Bloomington
                            . See 
                        
                                    Bloomington
                                 Directory for 1911–1912, 103; Caron's
                                Directory for 1913–1914, 118, 147; Caron's
                                Directory for 1916-1918, 127, 159–60; Heber Page Directory
                                Co.'s 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana City Directory, 1925–1926 … (
                                Danville
                            , Ill., n.d.), 165, 186–87.
                  
                     27 In 1868 James D. Showers and William N. Showers organized the
                            Showers and Brothers furniture manufacturing firm; ten years later another brother, Charles
                            H. Showers, joined the company. These three men and their descendants built Showers Brothers
                            into what was considered the largest furniture manufacturing concern in the world during the
                            early twentieth century. Orzack, "Employment and Social Structure,"
                            81–93, passim; Dillon, Thoughts Concerning the
                                60th Anniversary of Showers Brothers Company, 7–8, passim. All three
                            Showers brothers had residences on North College Avenue. W. Edward Showers, son of William
                            N., however, resided on North 
                                Washington
                             Street. See 
                        
                                    Bloomington
                                 Directory for 1911–1912, 169; Caron's
                                Directory for 1913–1914, 239; Caron's Directory
                                for 1916–1918, 266.
               
                     here at the present time. Going on up the street to the corner
                    of 11th and Walnut, northwest corner, was a house owned by Bert Hoadley. His family consisted of
                    John and Kathryn and Ruth and Bob. They were also well known in the community. Bert was, like John
                    Hoadley who lived down on the other side of the street, occupied in the stone business. Coming down
                    a little bit from that corner the second house on the west side of Walnut St. was a house occupied
                    by Will Karsell, councilman and father of Horace, Elizabeth, William and Tom Karsell and he was a
                    very much liked individual. In the winter time he used to see that the College Ave. hill from 11th
                    St. down perhaps as far as 7th was "blocked off" for sliding by children and we
                    all enjoyed that so much! On the west side of Walnut St. between 9th and 10th Charlie Sears who was
                    the superintendent at Showers Furniture Co. at that time built a very nice brick residence and a
                    little bit to the north of that Mr. and Mrs. William Johnson of the 
                        Bloomington
                     Limestone Co. built. Their son, Harry Johnson, who later succeeded them in the stone
                    business, lived at the corner of Indiana and 3rd St.
            BLOOMINGTON'S SHOW PEOPLE
            Harry Howard and his wife had a dog and pony show which was noted at the time and travelled about a
                    great deal. They lived on East 3rd St. out in the country in the area now occupied by Arbys and
                    Little Caesar's Pizza etc. They gave me, because of friendship for my parents, my first
                    pet, a little taffy colored cocker spaniel. I well remember that dog, and the utter and complete
                    heartbreak and desolation I felt when he was run over one evening on N. College Ave. by the taxis
                    and rigs coming from meeting the evening Illinois Central train from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was the branch line running from Effingham to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and was put in later than the Monon (C. I. & L) which was in use earlier as
                    I've mentioned.28
            
            
               
                  28 The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Southern Railroad Company was organized in 1899. to carry the Illinois Central into 
                            Indianapolis
                        . The road was completed to 
                            Bloomington
                         in 1906. Shortly thereafter through train service between 
                            Indianapolis
                         and the Illinois Central main line at Effingham, 
                            Illinois
                        , was established. Carlton J. Corliss, Main Line of Mid-America: The
                            Story of the Illinois Central (
                            New York
                        , 1950), 333–34.
            
            
            
               ABOVE, ILLINOIS CENTRAL PASSENGER STATION; BELOW, MONON PASSENGER STATION, 1922
               Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures … (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1922), 29.
            
            
            CIRCUSES
            
               
                        Bloomington
                    's Gentry Brothers had a dog and pony show, later expanded into a circus, which
                    was a well known entertainment feature of the time and travelled widely giving their shows.29
            
            Shipp and Feltus Circus was 
                        Bloomington
                    -originated with Roy Feltus and travelled chiefly through South America. Later Roy
                    Feltus lived in the house just north of the William Johnson house on Walnut St. and back of our
                    home.
            I. U.
            The University at this time was an institution of a few thousand at most. The campus was the
                    buildings about the old Well House and the Library Building and then the Student Building and
                    Maxwell and Wylie and Kirkwood and Owen Hall, and others were added later. Of course the history of
                    the school is a separate story all to itself.30 The old Assembly Hall was
                    recently replaced with the new Assembly Hall and the old building was the subject of an article in
                    the I. U. Alumni magazine and an address by Herman Wells in that publication.31
                    The power plant and the Indiana University Daily Student Building were just east of it alongside the
                        cemetery.32 These initially constituted the campus at that time with a few
                    of the older buildings and the observatory, in the central area now.
            514 N. COLLEGE AVENUE
            The lower floor rooms of the old house were 14 feet in 
                  
                     29 For a further description of the "world-famous"
                            Gentry Brothers Dog and Pony Show, Inc., operated by Henry B., Frank H., and Wallace W.
                            Gentry, see Forest M. Hall, comp., Historic Treasures: True Tales of Deeds with
                                Interesting Data in the Life of 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana University and 
                                    Monroe County
                                
                      … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922), 31.
                  
                     30 For the history of Indiana University, including size of
                            enrollments through the years, see James A. Woodburn, History of Indiana
                                University, 1820–1902 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1940); and Myers, History of Indiana University. The most
                            recent history of the university is Clark, Indiana University, which is
                            volume I of a projected three volume work.
                  
                     31 The old Assembly Hall was torn down in 1938. See Herman B Wells,
                            "Remarks at Dedication of Assembly Hall," Indiana University Review, XIV (Winter, 1972), 1–4.
                  
                     32 The Indiana University Student began publication
                            in 1867 and became a daily in 1898. For a more complete discussion of its evolution and a
                            brief mention of the Dunn Cemetery on the Indiana University campus see Clark, Indiana University, 118–19, 292, 315, passim; Myers,
                                History of Indiana University, 612–35.
               
                     height. In each room was a cast iron fireplace and the house
                    consisted of two front rooms and a large hall and a room to the east end of the hall and the room
                    back of that served as the kitchen and there were spiral stairs which were rather steep, leading up
                    to the room which was over the kitchen and there was a long straight formal stairway leading from
                    the first floor to the second floor in the hall. The floors were the old fashioned wide plank floors
                    and the beams and timbers in the house were of white poplar which termites were unable to destroy.
                    Some of them when the house was finally razed some years ago were as sound as they had ever been.
            It was not long after Dr. Frank purchased the old house that he had a basement dug out under the rear
                    room which was the kitchen and the room to the west of it which was the dining room in order to
                    place the very large coal burning furnace in there and install a central hot water heating system.
                    There had been a barn in back of the house at the east end, extending to the corner of the lot,
                    which had been used as a wood shed and for barn purposes. The stable was on the southeast corner of
                    the lot and it had stalls for the horses, buggies, etc. There was an open rail porch on the south
                    side of the house toward the back on the first and second floor on which the rooms of the first and
                    second floor opened. There was a porch along the west side of the house with a cast iron railing
                    around the roof of it and tall pillars at the front of the house and the entire lot was enclosed
                    with an ornamental iron fence. The house was on the north portion of the two lot area which was 132
                    feet x 132 feet. This gave a large and spacious side yard which was used by us and our neighbor
                    children and friends. There were some tall stately dark pine trees in the yard and the odor of pine
                    trees in the winter and other times when we slept on the second floor outdoors porch, which we
                    always did, was something pleasant to remember. This house was truly our home and was the haven for
                    the three of us, myself, my sister and my brother and our friends throughout all the years that we
                    lived in it and many of our contemporaries remember it most happily yet.
            Mother was an accomplished pianist and had a very lovely Knabe parlor-grand piano (earlier there had
                    been a Chickering upright) in the front room downstairs and she loved to play for us and when we
                    were little children she would play for us to go upstairs to bed so we would turn in  to sleep with music in our hearts and minds. Originally there was an
                    ornate iron fence all about the property. This was removed later and a stone fence built on the
                    south, east, and north sides of the lots. Frank and Margaret Holland were timely taskmasters and
                    definite disciplinarians, but when the work was done everybody had fun. Edgar
                    Guest once wrote, "it takes a heap of living in a house to make it home."33 This old house got plenty of living through that generation and the next and
                    it was always home. As the years went along Margaret's mother, Susan
                    Todd, and Dr. Philip C. Holland shared the house over various periods of time.
            FIRST CHRISTMAS
            The first Christmas I distinctly remember was in the front room at the old home. We had a tall tree,
                    almost to the fourteen foot ceiling and it was loaded with candles and decorations and popcorn
                    strings and cranberry strings for decoration. The toys were under the tree, and in, from the front
                    porch, stepping in after opening the big window came Santa Claus in whiskers and a big fat belly and
                    a white trimmed red suit. To this day I've never been sure whether father, or Uncle Ernest
                    took the part. I was too astounded to be thinking very acutely. Of course we had stockings with some
                    candies, apples, oranges and boxes of raisins and maybe a few special small gifts
                    in them. Mother always made her New 
                        England
                     steamed pudding with raisins, which all had to be seeded by hand, suet, spices and so
                    on, cooked in the specially made cookers so, although the pudding was cooked by steam it was dry.
                    The sauce, of brown sugar, vinegar and molasses was out of this world! It took days to prepare the
                    pudding.
            ADVENTURES IN EATING
            In later years when he lived with us, at times after Grandmother's death, Grandfather
                    Holland had a garden each year and raised a variety of produce such as, radishes
                    of all the various kinds, rhubarb which was in a bed and came up each year, and at least six kinds
                    of tomatoes and some green beans and Kohl Rabi and Salsify. I was particularly 
                  
                     33 For the complete poem see Edgar A. Guest, A Heap
                                o' Livin' (
                                Chicago
                            , 1916), 28–30.
               
                     fond of a soup made of the last mentioned. Nowadays no one has
                    ever heard of it! He would get a ham, or sides of bacon and fix an old barrel up on bricks in the
                    back yard, with burlap over the top and the meat suspended inside, after it had been properly cured,
                    and used hickory wood, fed in through an opening at the bottom with the draft controlled to make it
                    smoke just right. That was real bacon and ham—genuinely hickory smoked. He stored
                    turnips, apples and other things in mounds underground as they would keep well into the winter and
                    thus we had good things for a longer time. Produce were not shipped around all over the country then
                    as they are now and one had access only to what was "in season."
            Some years when he [Grandfather Holland] and grandmother went to Biloxi or Gulfport in the winter he
                    would wait until there was a real cold spell and buy those huge delicious gulf oysters putting them
                    in one can which was placed inside a larger can, with ice and personally put the package on the
                    train and ship it to us at 
                        Bloomington
                    . That was really wonderful as they arrived very fresh and firm and were as big as the
                    palm of one's hand. We ate them raw, fried, scalloped and in oyster stew!
            While father had lived in 
                        New York
                     he had learned to appreciate seafoods so we were early introduced to salt mackeral,
                    codfish, and codfish flakes, bloater paste, and many kinds of fish if and when they became
                    available.
            We also learned about the cheese family, rocquefort, neufchatel, limburger, swiss, camembert and all.
                    Grandmother Holland knew foods such as The Pennsylvania Dutch, and English prepared, and Grandmother
                    Todd had encouraged mother with the old southern dishes such as beaten biscuits, spoon bread and
                    many others.
            JUST FAMILY
            Elizabeth and Bill were lively personalities as exemplified by the following stories. One winter when
                    the children were gliding on College Ave. Elizabeth came home, eyes ablaze and full of indignation
                    bringing her little brother home. She said "some of those big boys were turning
                    "baby's" sled over" so without further ado and with pigtails
                    flying she exited, only to return, rumpled and red faced a little later saying "they
                    won't do that again to my brother. I went out and rubbed  their faces in the snow." Regardless of her small size she was a veritable little
                    dynamo.
            Bill was a venturesome one and as a result often incurred injuries. However, he was more rapid in
                    physical maturing and coordination than I who continued to grow for longer than the usual number of
                    years. He became a very successful athlete, as well as a brilliant scholar. I remember one time when
                    he was only about as tall as the railing about the beautiful long stairway in the front hall that he
                    managed to pull himself over the railing to fall the 14 feet to the floor lighting
                    on all fours and running an opened safety pin entirely through his lower lip! He did survive the
                    fall for which we were all duly grateful.
            We all used to visit at the Philip Hill's home next door and "Uncle
                    Phippy" was a great tease. Every now and then Elizabeth would come home full of indignation
                    and tell us Uncle Phippy had said "hello little boy" and she said
                    "I'm no little boy, can't you see these pigtails and these hair ribbons?"
            HOW DO WE KNOW WHERE TO GO & HOW DO WE GET THERE?
            Communications and transportation were two things which we take very much for granted in these
                    present days but it was not always so. Dr. Phillip C. Holland used to practice medicine on horseback
                    with saddlebags on his horse to carry his medications and supplies, as he went about seeing
                    patients. Later when the roads got better he was able to use the horse and buggy and that was some
                    improvement. When Dr. Frank came to town he bought the "outlaw" horses and kept
                    several of them in his stable at home with the idea being that he would let the horse have its head
                    after he once harnessed it, to make the call wherever it might be in the county and likewise let it
                    run as fast as it cared on the return trip also. This was his manner of keeping them under control.
                    We had one horse named Jane with whom he came in from the country one day and went to the county
                    fair where they were having harness races. The race track used to be at the site where Weddle
                    Brothers plant is now,34 and on this particular 
                  
                     34 The old fairgrounds and race track were located west of Walker
                            Street between Second and Third streets on the west side of 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     day this particular horse was put in the harness racing and
                    proceeded to win the first race. This was after he [Dr. Frank] had been on a call some distance out
                    in the country and returned. This was typical of these horses.
            I am indebted for my life to a cousin of mine, the son of William B. Holland my father's
                    brother, who was just enough older than I that he realized that I was getting in danger when I went
                    toward the stables one day and my grandmother heard him calling loudly and when she came down little
                    Lewis Holland was sitting on the ground holding me to keep me from going any further towards the
                    stables because he knew that I could be killed if I got in with the mean horses. Little Lewis did
                    not live long, dying of a childhood disease at a very early age.
            Grandfather Holland had a stable mare named Nellie who he would hitch to the surrey and take the
                    whole family for a ride. This was in the years after he retired from practice and this was a
                    diversion that we had at that time and enjoyed.
            In most of the communities of the country doctors were amongst the first persons in the community to
                    buy automobiles when they became available as they were a necessary item. The first car that Dr.
                    Frank bought was to the best of my recollection a 1908 hand-built Buick. A little later Joe Dawson
                    won the 500-Mile Race in 
                        Indianapolis
                     driving a National automobile which was made in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and he [Frank Holland] bought one of those which he had for a year or two. Then Ray
                    Harroun won a race in his famous "Marmon Wasp" which is still on display in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,35 and he [Dr. Frank] bought then a Marmon touring car, the model
                    they called `41'. This preceded the `34' which they built for so many years which
                    was so successful. This was a large automobile with one piece cast blocks essentially a large-bore
                    and long-stroke engine which used a cone clutch and fly wheel and was equipped with a Bosch low
                    tension magneto for ignition. The lights on these old cars were carbide lights. The tanks were made
                    by the Prestolite Co. in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and water was added and this with the carbide powder made the carbide gas which then
                    went up to the headlights by a small pipe and one would open 
                  
                     35 Ray Harroun, driving a Marmon Wasp, won the 
                                Indianapolis
                             500 Mile Race in 1911; Joe Dawson, driving a National automobile, won the race
                            in 1912. Brock Yates, The 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 500: The Story of the Motor Speedway (rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1961), 172.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. AND MRS. PHILIP C. HOLLAND AND PHILIP TODD HOLLAND, 1906
               
                    
                  THE HOLLAND FAMILY'S
                                FIRST NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE,
                            1910–1911
                  Courtesy Philip Todd Holland.
               
                     the front of the head lamp and with a match would light the
                    headlights. This was standard equipment for quite some years on practically all automobiles. They
                    all had clincher rims and then a little later removable rims on this particular one and it took a 36
                    inch by 4 1/2 inch tire which was a good big tire. The motors in these old cars did not turn very
                    many revolutions per minute. They were slow motors like marine motors with a slow turnover, large
                    chambers and a long stroke. They were effective, however, since this particular model, I was
                    informed, had gone over 90 miles an hour on the speedway stripped down, and with proper timing and
                    tune-up etc. This car was kept for a number of years because during World War I when Dr. Frank was
                    away in the service and prior to W. W. I when he served on the Texas border in the Mexican border
                    trouble with Pancho Villa,36 the car was sitting in our garage jacked up on
                    blocks. We did have Model-T automobiles at that time and they were really something. Each cylinder
                    had its own spark coil and ignition system and they had a three pedal system, reverse, low, high,
                    and a brake, working the transmission system. The gasoline feed was by gravity with the gasoline
                    tank being under the driver's seat. If the grade of a hill was steep enough it became
                    necessary to back up the hill to get up because the gasoline would not run up
                    hill. One interesting thing about the old Model-T's was that they had a full weight-bearing
                    rear axle which meant that if the axle broke the wheel would slide out of the housing and go rolling
                    on down the road. This happened to me once when I was driving one of the old Model-T's.
                    These old cars had side curtains of heavy fabric with isinglass panels which we called
                    "side curtains" and they could be put on in bad weather. They were made with
                    various kinds of snaps and fasteners so they could be assembled and fastened in place, with an
                    upright rod to go in a tunnel in the curtain, at the opening end of the side doors.
            Aunt Edith Holland Gifford and her husband lived at 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, so not uncommonly we went visiting at her home. There were no road markers
                    and no highway system with numbered roads. I remember one very black night when we had gotten
                    started rather late and the weather was not 
                  
                     36 For further discussions of Frank Holland's experiences in
                            the border incident with 
                                Mexico
                             in 1916 and in World War I see pages 251–57.
               
                     good. The old headlights didn't give any too much
                    light and the roads were as I've described them—miserable! With all of these
                    factors father ran off the road at a little culvert and was hopelessly stuck there. Thus, at about
                    1–2 A.M. he took a light and walked to the nearest farmhouse and awakened the farmer who,
                    with considerable grumbling got his team of horses and came and pulled us back on the road so we
                    could proceed, which we did!
            Later automobiles [which the Hollands owned] included an open touring car, and then a sedan, made by
                    the National Motor Car Co. of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a straight 6-cylinder overhead valve engine with a low slung center of gravity which
                    was really a very good car for those days. By this time we had electric lights and had windshield
                    wipers that operated by manifold vacuum pressure instead of by hand as did the older ones and and
                    there were other improvements. Following these he [Dr. Frank] bought successively two of the
                    Lincolns that were made by the Ford Motor Co., 
                        Lincoln
                     Division, after it was taken over from the Leland Co.37 These were
                    very fine automobiles and would be considered very good cars even today. He had several Chevrolets
                    of various models. Usually there were two cars kept in the garage so that there would be one
                    available at all times. I was mechanic of the cars from the time that I was big enough to do
                    anything about them. I learned to change tires, adjust brakes, adjust timing, space spark plugs,
                    adjust carburetors, change oil, lubricate and do various other necessary things so that I was very
                    well acquainted with the mechanisms of automobiles before I was old enough to drive (which was age
                    16) at which time my father said he was going to take me out and teach me to drive. He said
                    "we will get any nonsense you have in your head out right now, and you are going to learn
                    to drive carefully and responsibly." He was a very demanding teacher and demanded that I be
                    able to do all the things that I should be able to do in handling an automobile safely and
                    effectively. This was quite comparable to the present day driver education programs. I consider
                    driving as a science!
            
            After I was 16 years of age and old enough to drive and have a driver's license my father
                    used to call me when he had 
                  
                     37 For a history of the Ford Motor Company, including a discussion of
                            the Leland Company, see Allan Nevins, Ford: The Times, the Man, the
                            Company (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954).
               
                     calls to make at night in the country and I would get up and
                    dress and drive for, him and he would tell me where to go and would sit in the right hand seat and
                    go to sleep, while I drove, and when I got to where the patient lived, he would go in and see the
                    patient, and I would curl up on the floor of the car beside the hand brake and the gearshift lever
                    which were in the center of the front compartment and utilize the warmth that was coming off the
                    motor to keep me comfortable, and by the time he had made his call and had gotten back within a
                    reasonable distance of the car I was awake and we would get started and he would rest on the way
                    back so that I became accustomed to getting my sleep in "catnaps" and having it
                    disturbed without thinking very much about it, at an early age. There were no paved roads and in the
                    spring and fall with the freezing and thawing and moisture the roads would become very difficult and
                    one had to learn how to drive under these circumstances. Often the mud would be so deep it was up to
                    the running boards which were on the side of the car and up to the axles, and if you stopped or
                    hesitated once, you were "hung up" and that was it! The roads were all narrow and
                    high crowned and those that had any great amount of macadam were narrow and the bridges were narrow.
                    They were not marked like our current highways at all. Father used to let me drive grandfather
                    various places back to what one might call his "back home territory" in southern
                    Indiana around 
                        Switzerland County
                    
               38 and he would berate me for driving very fast, and yet he would
                    tell me that he expected to be at a destination at a time which would entail my
                    making an average of 50 miles an hour from the time we left home to the time we
                    got where we were going. I had to divert his attention and manage to get him there on time which was
                    "part of the game" you see. We take our communications pretty much for granted now
                    but in those days people used to have to hitch the horse and buggy and drive into town to the
                    doctor's office or home or get him to come out and see a very ill patient. People did not
                    have clinics, hospitals and equipment such as we have now and it was not at all unusual to be
                    awakened at night by someone knocking on the door, with a message of need.
            
               
                  38 Dr. Philip C. Holland had practiced medicine in 
                     Vevay, Switzerland
                        County
                  , Indiana, before moving to 
                            Bloomington
                        . Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, IV, 624.
            
            
            
               THE GEORGE FRANK HOLLAND FAMILY c. 1913–1914
               Courtesy Philip Todd Holland.
            
            
            HOW'S THE FAMILY GETTING ALONG?
            While we have been talking about 
                        Bloomington
                    , neighborhood, times, and the people we have neglected to say what is happening to Dr.
                    Frank and Margaret Holland and their family. In October of 1907 a sprightly little girl whose name
                    was Elizabeth Chittenden Holland and in December of 1910 a son by the name of William Ernest Holland
                    were born to them. These two, plus myself constituted their family. Elizabeth was a small child and
                    unfortunately was afflicted with what is now called celiac disease which is a congenital deficiency
                    of some of the digestive fluids necessary to handle all sorts of food. During the time she was quite small and very ill Dr. P. C. Holland and Ann Holland took
                    her and I am sure are responsible for the fact that she is alive, well and healthy ever since then.
            Dr. Frank was continuing in a very active practice and did much of the surgery which was developed as
                    it came later, and for which he was noted in his active practice in 
                        Bloomington
                    . About this time during these years there was a move going forth in 
                        Bloomington
                     to have a 
                        Bloomington
                     Hospital as there had not been one previously. Ground was bought on South Rogers Street
                    where the present 
                        Bloomington
                     Hospital is, where there was an old brick home which had been a residence and was
                    converted for hospital use at that time. Of course, the conversion was rather crude. The patients
                    had to be carried by stretcher from 1st to 2nd floor. This was the first hospital in 
                        Bloomington
                     and the two Drs. Holland along with many, many, other people in the
                    community were influential and instrumental in seeing that it was established.39
                    Before this time surgery had not been done in 
                        Bloomington
                    , definitive surgery that is, because there were no facilities in which to do it nor
                    were there people trained to do it, nor were procedures very well developed.
            About 1909 Dr. Philip C. Holland discontinued practice and retired from the practice of medicine.
                    After that time he did not go to the office whenever patients appeared. He left it entirely to his
                    son. He had had smallpox when he 
                  
                     39 The 
                                Bloomington
                             Hospital was organized and incorporated in 1904. A new hospital building,
                            immediately adjacent to the old brick residence, was begun in 1916 and completed in 1919.
                            Hall, Historic Treasures, 132–33.
               
                    
                    
                  OPERATING ROOM IN BLOOMINGTON
                                HOSPITAL, c. 1922
               
                    
                  BLOOMINGTON HOSPITAL AND NURSES' HOME, c. 1922
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures
                            … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922), 132.
               
                     was a soldier during the Civil War and had a heart murmur. In
                    those days heart murmurs were not diagnosed particularly well and because of the existence of this
                    murmur he was never able to buy insurance. This would not be the case nowdays, however! The ironic
                    part of this story is that Dr. Holland died when he was almost ninety years old and I guess he still had that heart murmur!40 Elizabeth was named for her
                    mother's older sister of whom she was very fond and the name Chittenden was the maiden name
                    of Ann 
                        Atlanta
                     Holland. William Ernest Holland was so named because William and Ernest were the names
                    of Dr. Frank's brothers.
            P. C. Holland's older brother's wife died earlier at an age when their 3 children
                    were quite young. The three children who were named Herschell, Marshall and Maude, went to live with
                    [their] Uncle Phil and Aunt Ann so that in addition to the four of their own, William B., and Frank,
                    Ernest and Edith, Philip C. and Ann Holland raised the three cousins, making it a family of 7 they
                    raised from childhood so that, although the 3, and 4, were cousins they were raised like brothers
                    and sisters. Grandmother and grandfather Holland taught their children that "blood is
                    thicker than water" and that "if you could not depend on your own family then you
                    could not depend on anybody" so they taught a strong bond of solidarity in the family and
                    interdependence, and reliance, and this characterized the lives of all of these people forever after
                    much to the benefit and pleasure and gratification of all of them.
            UNION ARMY INCIDENTS
            Dr. P. C. Holland prior to his becoming an M. D. had been a sergeant of infantry in the 6th Indiana
                    regiment during the Civil War41 and had entered upon that position from life on
                    a farm in southern Indiana in 
                        Switzerland County
                     so was a fairly rugged individual. He was quite a naturalist and had a great curiosity
                    about animals. One time he and his company 
                  
                     40 Dr. Philip C. Holland died in 1929. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, IV, 625.
                  
                     41 Philip C. Holland served in Company H of the Sixth Indiana
                            Volunteer Infantry Regiment from 1861 to 1864. [William H. H. Terrell], Report
                                of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), IV, 85.
               
                     had been on a long hard march during the day and found a creek.
                    The men decided they were hot and tired and wanted to refresh themselves and they got into the
                    stream to bathe and wash and Philip C. was on a high bluff to keep watch and happened to come onto a
                    5 to 6 foot black snake which, of course, was perfectly harmless, and he slowly crept up to the edge
                    of the bank and tossed the snake into the stream where the men were bathing. The pandemonium that
                    ensued was of course rather ridiculous and very amusing and created quite a commotion. Perry
                    Twineham who lived in southern Illinois was a Civil War veteran who had been closely associated with
                    the Holland family for many years and had been in the service with P. C., told me one time that P.
                    C. being the top sergeant in the company was having some trouble having orders carried out. They
                    were having company assembly in the camp between the tent rows and at the end he said "If
                    any of you have any questions about these orders see me back of the tent row, company
                    dismissed." It seems some of the company's men had taken some exception to the
                    orders they received for sometime so a couple of them came back of the tent row. Perry told me P. C.
                    said "which one of you first" and each of them in turn was roundly thrashed and
                    Perry said there was never any further disciplinary problem in that company.
            DISCIPLINE
            Grandmother Holland was one of the most equitable, fair, intelligent and direct women that anybody
                    ever saw. As a matter of fact I have often thought that the Reader's Digest section
                    "My Most Unforgettable Character" should have) her written up. She had been one of
                    a very large family and she said that she had always been so busy either being taken care of by the
                    older ones or taking care of the younger ones in the family that she did not have much time for
                    anything except raising children and she certainly knew child psychology, and used it, on the 7 that
                    she and P. C. raised, and exercised this with her grandchildren, myself and my brother and my
                    sister. We did not mind her discipline at all because it was fair and straight forward. There was
                    not any question about what was intended or planned or meant, and as I said with Dr. Frank and
                    Margaret Holland they were  disciplinarians, definitely, but
                    they knew how to laugh and to make the best of all sorts of circumstances and when the work was done
                    and all necessary things were accomplished then we all had fun and the jokes were always plentiful
                    about the house. Grandmother Holland was a wonderful cook and made the most marvelous pies, and
                    cherry preserves and her homemade salt-rising bread with butter was better than any cake
                    I've eaten then or since. We were taught early by Dr. Frank that "if you could not
                    take it then you should not dish it out" referring to jokes on ourselves or on anyone else.
                    He taught us that lesson at the cost of an occasional tear on our parts but I am sure it has proved
                    to be one of the most valuable lessons that the three of us learned in our childhood.
            In the meantime Dr. Frank Holland was doing definitive surgery in 
                        Bloomington
                     and was about the first surgeon to do what we now consider as definitive elective
                    surgery and do it successfully, utilizing what we consider modern methods and procedures. He managed
                    to keep up with the times and the developments that were going on in his field of work. This
                    continued up to the time of his death.
            OUR SCHOOLS
            You may wonder about the schools at this time. This is an interesting story. At that time we had the
                    McCalla School on E. 9th St., and Banneker School which was the colored school, and the old
                    "central school" and the high school which was in the old college building on S.
                    College Ave. and which was replaced by 
                        Bloomington
                     High School building just to the east of it.42 At the time I
                    started to the 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Bloomington
                            's Central School, the first graded school in the city, was built
                            between 1871 and 1875. Located on South College Avenue, the building was constructed on the
                            site of an old tannery and for several years housed all grades, elementary through high
                            school. After Indiana University, in 1883–1884, moved from its location at the
                            end of South College Avenue to Dunn's Woods on the eastern edge of town, a
                            preparatory school was held in the old college seminary building. In 1897 the city purchased
                            the building and moved its high school there. Still later, some time after a new high school
                            building was opened in 1915, the Seminary Building housed the junior high school students.
                            Central School continued as an elementary school for a number of years and later was used
                            for special education classes. The building was eventually razed. Sixty Years
                                of Service, 1871–1931: A Brief Account of the Central School of 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1931); Clark, Indiana University, 139–40; The Gothic (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1914), 4; The Gothic (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1920), 15–18; History of Lawrence and Monroe
                            Counties, 262, 294.
               
                    
                    
                  BLOOMINGTON HIGH SCHOOL, c. 1922
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures
                            … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1992), 130.
               
                    
                    
                  CENTRAL SCHOOL BUILDING
                  
               
                    
                  SEMINARY BUILDING, 1921
               
                    
                  McCALLA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, 1921
                  Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures
                            … (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1922), 49, 50.
               
                     McCalla school I went through the first grades at McCalla on
                    9th at Indiana, the first through 4th, and the 5th grade I took at Central school on College Ave.
                    west side below 3rd St. and the 6th and 7th and 8th grades, I believe, we took in the old University
                    building at the south end of College Ave. Then, we had the 4 years of high school at 
                        Bloomington
                     High School. At McCalla School we used to walk back and forth from our home on North
                    College to 9th and Indiana where the school was located and used to go through the area of town
                    which was called "Bucktown" on 9th and 8th St. between 
                        Lincoln
                     and Dunn.43 The teachers at McCalla were a very interesting group
                    and there were Florence and Elizabeth Gourley who were two very lovely, gentle, ladies very
                    dedicated to teaching and very much loved by their pupils and the families of the pupils. There was
                    Miss Lola Smith who was a very lovely lady and an excellent teacher. She was one everyone remembers
                    most kindly. Miss Oaka Morris was a very stern disciplinarian and an excellent teacher, all you had
                    to do was your school work, then everything was fine! The principal of the school was Ben Johnson
                    and Ben was a good disciplinarian, very strict about discipline and did not hesitate to use a razor
                    strap or the flat of his hand when it was indicated. He was a "born teacher" in
                    that he had the ability to get people to understand what he was trying to teach them. He was able to
                    get me to understand something about arithmetic which until then
                    I had been pretty much puzzled about! I remember distinctly dipping Becky Howe's pigtails
                    in the inkwell in my desk and I was "reminded" that this was not the proper way to
                    behave. The year at Central school was relatively uneventful except that it was another year of
                    school and went along quite satisfactorily. The next period was at the old University building at
                    the south end of College Ave. which we attended for three years. We were at that time studying Latin
                    during those two years among other subjects being taught, so we began that study earlier than most
                    school systems of the time. Then we moved over to the regular high school building at the corner of
                    2nd 
                  
                     43 The term "Bucktown" was probably applied to this
                            section of 
                                Bloomington
                             because during the early twentieth century almost all residents of the area
                            were black. See Caron's Directory of 1913–1914, 297,
                            320; Caron's Directory of 1916–1918, 328, 353.
               
                     and Walnut (which many years later burned)44 and I had a very pleasant time there in school. In those days there were no buses.
                    Practically all children who lived within a reasonable distance at all, walked to school. There were
                    no lunch counters and no school lunches. A listing of some of the fellows who were in school as my
                    contemporaries includes names that were later well known in the community in various activities:
                    Robert F. Allen whose father was part owner of Wicks Company, and Bob later ran the company. There
                    was Floyd Rogers who later was Dr. O. F. Rogers. His father and his uncle were doctors in practice
                    at that time. There was David S. Coombs who lived on N. Washington St. and his father Logan Coombs
                    ran a clothing store on the east side of the square. Dietz and Coombs was the store name. There was
                    Parks T. Matthews who lived between 7th and 8th on College who was a very pleasant man and his
                    father worked in the stone business. There was John Shoemaker whose father, Fred, I had mentioned
                    earlier who was manager of the telephone company. There was Jeff Wylie, Rev. Wylie's son,
                    who lived on 10th and Walnut. There was Albert T. Hoadley who lived on Walnut St. and John A.
                    Hoadley who lived at 11th and Walnut. Horace Karsell and James Van Hook, George Talbot and his
                    cousins; Albert Harn; and Bill and Muir Kenney were a few more. There was E. Lane Wells and his
                    family who lived on Indiana and 8th St. Ralph Leser, later Dr. Leser, whose mother [Hedwig G.] was a
                    professor of 
                        German
                     at the University, was also contemporary.
            During a couple of years when I was in high school I was business manager of the school paper,
                    "The Optimist."45 I solicited ads, learned to set type, and
                    set up the ads, and collected money for them and kept the accounts and, (something that had never
                    happened before), I left the office with money in the bank to the credit of the school paper. Bob
                    Cooper taught printing in high school and operated the school print shop and taught us type setting
                    and feeding 
                  
                     44 In September, 1965, 
                                Bloomington
                             High School moved to a new location south of town. On April 6, 1967, the old
                            building at Second and Walnut streets, which had become Central Junior High School, burned. 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Daily Herald-Telephone, April 6, 1967.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Bloomington
                             High School's monthly newspaper, the Optimist, was
                            begun in 1913–1914 under the sponsorship of the freshman class. The
                                Gothic (1914), 54.
               
                     the printing press and such things. Bob is still living here in 
                        Bloomington
                     at the present time. There were, of course, many other names that I might mention but
                    the ones that I have mentioned were more or less colleagues and contemporaries and we were all well
                    acquainted. There were two high school fraternities at that time, Kappa Alpha Phi and Beta Phi Sigma
                    and they had dances and various social activities of that sort but I did not belong to either one of
                    them. Earl E. Ramsey was Superintendent of Schools and he lived on W. 1st St. between Walnut and
                    Rogers on the south side of the street. He had a son Frank (later Frank Ramsey, M. D. of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) and a son Bill and daughter Lorena. Their ages compared with those of myself and my
                    sister and my brother.
            SOMETHING NEW HAS BEEN ADDED
            Somewhere along about this time radio came into being and a lot of us were experimenting with galena
                    crystals and cat whisker detectors and tuning coils and then later with the vacuum tubes and other
                    circuits and wireless communication. We had an aerial strung from the top of the United Presbyterian
                    Church. I had crawled inside the tower and had crawled out on the ridge of the church to fasten the
                    end of it to the cupola on the church and then had to carry the wire across to come to the third
                    floor window of our home on North College Ave. This was our aerial for the radio at that time.
                    Professor R[olla] R. Ramsey, Dr. Hugh Ramsey's father, was at that time at the University
                    making much progress in the field of radio and had made some records for achievement in that field.
                    Fred Shoemaker, John's father, who as I mentioned managed the telephone company, used to
                    give us discarded equipment from the telephone company and we would unwind the armatures of the
                    coils and get fine copper wire from this source and we had a communications system in our
                    neighborhood which connected between my home and Jeff Wylie's home and Albert
                    Hoadley's home and Robert Allen's home. This was quite an activity to string this
                    very very thread-like wire all over a pretty good territory. It worked fairly well but we had much
                    fun doing it and that was worth more than what we were actually able to accomplish in the way of
                    communications.
            
            We set up a little chemistry shop in a little shed at the side of the stable at the south side of our
                    lot and had various chemicals there and we made colored flares and gunpowder and did various
                    chemical experiments of that sort and achieved a fair proficiency in making fireworks, which was
                    quite an interesting occupation. The chief participants in this activity were myself and Bob Allen,
                    Jim Barnhill, and Albert Hoadley. We used to get our chemical supply from Wiles Drugstore. Bob Wiles
                    and Avery Deupree would sell us what we needed for our experiments and activities.
            We experimented widely in a lot of ways but our work with the chemistry lab which led to our
                    experiments with gunpowder, and colored flares and related terms led us naturally to experiment in
                    the fireworks field. We even went so far as to attempt Roman candles but our successes were not
                    particularly outstanding. In those days the Fourth of July was a gala day, well and vociferously
                    celebrated by all. One would be awakened in the morning by the firing of guns, large firecrackers
                    and all such type of things. We had developed a device consisting of a dry cell, an ignition coil
                    and a piece of heavy plumbers pipe, in the rear end of which a spark plug was mounted, activated by
                    the current from the ignition coil. This was mounted on a base. We would put a charge of gunpowder
                    in the pipe and place rag or papers in front of it. When fired this had a very soulsatisfying report
                    equal to about the best anyone had! We did have also firecrackers, ranging from the strings of
                    "Chinese lady fingers" up to the 2, 4, and 6 inch salutes or "cannon
                    crackers" which were really pretty powerful and among the things that accounted for some of
                    the casualties. They were often placed under inverted tin cans, or in barrels, or by some persons,
                    in some cases in bottles to amplify the noise and the explosion. We also had pin wheels, rockets and
                    Roman candles. Now the remnant of this tradition is in the extensive huge fireworks exhibitions such
                    as those held in the old I. U. Stadium.46 In those days everybody was patriotic
                    and proud of their country and their flag. Those who did not choose to agree or to serve as they
                    should, received the well deserved epithets of "slackers",
                    "cowards", "draftdodgers", 
                  
                     46 A fireworks display, sponsored by one of the 
                                Bloomington
                             service clubs, has traditionally been held in the Indiana University Memorial
                            Stadium on the Fourth of July.
               
                     and "yellowbellies" and traitors and were
                    dealt universal scorn and disrepute among the citizenry, as should be the case of
                    course always.
            I chanced to get into photography by finding some old equipment in the Philip Hills carriage house
                    attic next door and asked their permission to have it. There were some printing frames to make
                    prints, and some trays for solutions and a box and tank developer for roll film. For a period of
                    time I did my own picture taking and would manage to get enough from developing and printing
                    pictures for my friends to pay for the chemicals and paper that I had to buy to do my own picture
                    taking. This has continued to be a hobby of mine although I no longer do the laboratory processing
                    of any of the work. I have not done any of that since the beginning of W. W. II, although I have
                    continued taking both color stills and 8 mm. movies.
            You can well imagine that with this many fellows of this age (and I assure you none of them were
                    angels) there was a lot of fun that went on and occasional pranks and mischief engaged in at times
                    although nothing really serious at all. Probably one of the reasons was that Dr. & Mrs.
                    Homer Strain who lost their son [Laurens B.] in W. W. I, more or less adopted this group of boys and
                    had them in their Sunday School class which he taught, and he organized the "Knights of 
                        St. Paul
                    " as a group which they had at their home and we would have refreshments and
                    group activities, social activities and fraternal type activities and we all remembered most
                    gratefully the time that they spent with us. I am sure that a lot of us feel a debt of gratitude to
                    Dr. Homer Strain for the time that he spent with this group of boys because I know that it helped us
                    a great deal and had a great influence on the later lives of all of us.
            There were no parks in 
                        Bloomington
                     and there were no public recreations grounds, no swimming pools and there are many
                    other things which we take for granted now which were not available in those days. The pool rooms
                    were about the only places of diversion and most of the parents did not think that was a
                    particularly good place for boys to go. My father decided that it was a good idea to have the boys
                    at home so he bought a full size regulation pool table and put it on the third floor of our home on
                    N. College and in the old barn on the south side we had a trapeze and rings  punching bag, regulation size with standard bounce board, and wrestling
                    mats, dumb bells, Indian clubs and all sorts of equipment that we could "workout"
                    with. We would go there after school and spend our time there. The place was heated by a stove and
                    we would start the fire and get the place warm and then take our workouts. We got to be pretty good
                    pool players and that was a lot of fun!
            When N. Washington St. was first paved there was not too much traffic on the street. It was really
                    smooth and we used to play on roller skates a sort of hockey with tin cans, and in the winter on the
                    old Monon pond where the old fair grounds used to be and where Weddle & Co. is, we would
                    play on ice skates when the ice got thick enough during the winter. We did have amusements. There
                    were basketball nets, baskets and backboards set up at various boys' homes where the
                    parents had arranged to do that, and there would be neighborhood groups who would play basketball
                    together in various neighborhoods. There just simply was not organized activity for young people
                    such as everyone thinks they should have now and which everyone seems simply to take for granted
                    currently as a necessity!
            Before these years that I speak of above, however, my grandfather, P. C. Holland, had been in the
                    habit of taking me with him for hikes in the woods to observe the birds, animals and etc., and to
                    hunt pawpaws, and he taught me to shoot and how to handle a rifle safely and things of that sort so
                    that from my standpoint he was my Boy Scout Troop in those days. Grandfather would wrap and box and
                    ship pawpaws to Uncle Ernest and Uncle Will each fall when they were ripe.
            Speaking of shooting reminds me of an interesting incident that occurred when I was with my father,
                    Dr. Frank, southwest of town one day when he was going out to make a call and he had a colored man
                    with him who helped take care of the horses and his car and he did a good job around the stable and
                    garage and he was good to me. In those days my father always carried a revolver in his car in the
                    side pocket in the door. As we were driving along in the countryside he saw a rabbit sitting up on a
                    hummock along side the road and he stopped the car, reached in and pulled out his revolver and shot
                    over his left shoulder and killed the rabbit and says, "Otto go get him." The
                    colored man went and got  him and we did not hear anymore of
                    that until later it came back to us indirectly, that some of Otto's friends were talking to
                    Otto about some of the equipment which was around the stable or the barn which looked good to them
                    and which one thought he would like to "acquire." Otto told them, "listen
                    boys don't mess around here, because "that man shoots rabbits over his shoulder
                    with a pistol and he don't miss!" Speaking of this particular colored man who was
                    with us for some years; I remember when I was a very small child when they were
                    building the new courthouse in the center of the public square47 there was on
                    the ground floor, a clock mechanism which was a marvelous piece of machinery of brass, gears, and
                    weights with all sorts of equipment and a pendulum and I used to beg Otto to take me down to let me
                    look at this work and watch it operate. This was one of my diversions when I was just a very small
                    child.
            AND AWAY WE GO!
            In 1908 approximately, the town decided that 
                        Bloomington
                     needed a new post office building so they condemned and took over the land from the
                    alley between 6th and 7th up to 7th and College on the east side of the street. This was, of course,
                    where my father and grandfather's office was and also the office of Dr. Luck, the optician,
                    whom I mentioned earlier. When the pre-emption of this real estate occurred the offices were moved
                    over from the site on the east side of College, up the hill, across 7th street and to the west half
                    of the lot on which grandfather's house stood. The long direction of the lot was east and
                    west on 7th St. The office was put at the alley and 7th St. on the north side of the street there
                    and remained until it was literally torn down after I vacated it about 6 years ago. It was
                    remodelled several times and it was a landmark in the community up until the time it was razed. The
                    moving was accomplished with long beams under the building, replaced as it moved on, by others and
                    cables wrapped around capstans which rotated, being pulled by horses. Logs were used as rollers.
            
               
                  47 The present 
                            Monroe County
                         courthouse, the county's third, was completed on June 1, 1908. History of Lawrence and Monroe Counties, 237–40.
            
            
            HELP
            I mentioned something about some of the help which we had. If one had horses one had to have someone
                    to take care of them but in those days it was not at all unusual for a family to have a helper who
                    came in the home and lived with them and did the housework and cooking and looked after the
                    children, etc. We had such a person at our home for a great many years while we were children and
                    this woman's name was Lula David and she came from 
                        Brown County
                    . She had very little education but she had a heart of gold and a very kind disposition
                    and she certainly did know how to handle small children and do the things that needed to be done.
                    She was with us a great many years and I am sure that I, and my brother and sister, remember her
                    most kindly, and her gentle and helpful offices during our childhood. One unforgettable incident
                    occurred at a time, after Lula had left when we had a young girl named Opal recently from the
                    country. She could make lovely pies, and pie crust etc. Mother told her, as she was leaving to go
                    downtown, "Opal make us a peach pie will you for supper." Opal said
                    "yes." That evening the pie was brought in and appeared beautiful except it looked
                    "lumpy." Father started to cut it and the "lumps" would roll
                    under the top crust. She had made a "peach" pie out of green olives (seeds and
                    all) and when mother asked her about it Opal said "Mrs. Holland I saw them in the glass jar
                    and figured they was little green peaches!" We all managed not to laugh at the table at the
                    time, as we didn't want to hurt her feelings.
            JUST NAMES
            Hinkles Meat Market was on the east side of Walnut between 6th and 7th and it was the popular place
                    for the housewives to get their meat at that time. Dave Coombs, whom I have mentioned earlier, was
                    very fond of liver and for his birthday or some such occasion someone gave him a dollar so he took
                    his little wagon and trudged down to the meat market and bought his dollar's worth of liver. Liver at that time was something that the
                    butcher would give away for little or nothing because it was not very highly prized at that time and
                    so Dave went home with his little wagon  filled with liver and
                    from that time on his nickname was "Liver" Coombs. Jeff Wylie was so called
                    because his family came to 
                        Bloomington
                     from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and when he first came he used to speak about 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . I never did know just how Beanie Rogers, Otto F. Rogers, (later Dr. Rogers) got his
                    nickname and I don't know that I ever heard anyone say, but the name Beanie was with him
                    through his lifetime. Dr. Robert E. Lyons Jr. was another one and his nickname was
                    "doodlebug" until at least he was through high school. His father was professor of
                    chemistry at the University and his mother and father lived on E. 3rd St. near Sluss.
            
               
                        Bloomington
                     for a number of years had a band and had band concerts which were held in the park on
                    3rd St. Prior to the existence of that park they were held elsewhere and the band director was a
                    big, kind gentleman and musician by the name of Harry Crigler from whom I took saxophone lessons. I
                    learned to play the saxophone when I was quite young and then later I worked around a bit with some
                    of the other wind instruments. These concerts by the 
                        Bloomington
                     band were an institution for a great many years.
            In 1916 the community and University held a centennial anniversary of the founding of the University.
                    There was a big pageant and my brother and sister and I rode in a barouche in the parade that was
                    held for the occasion, representing the children of Andrew Wylie, the first President of the
                        University.48
            
            WIDE-EYED DAYS OF WONDERMENT
            Every summer the circus would come to town, sometimes one and sometime more than one. When I was a
                    little boy, grandfather used to get me up early and we would go down to the railroad tracks and
                    watch the big circus wagons being unloaded and the elephants, and roustabouts from the railroad cars
                    and all the performers and the animal cages. Then later on we went to the circus and saw the whole
                    show. Of course that was fun for grandfather and certainly it was fun for us children. The big event
                    of circus day was the big 
                  
                     48 See William Chauncy Langdon, The Pageant of 
                                    Bloomington
                                 and Indiana University … (n.p., 1916), 82.
               
                     parade downtown. The animals in their rumbling heavy gilded
                    cages, the band wagon and all the decorated wagons and the clowns, brass band and the trapeze
                    artists riding on the horses, on the backs of elephants and all the other things that went in made
                    it quite a show. Everybody came into town that day. That was the day! We had most
                    of the circuses here at one time, Hagenbach, Wallace, Ringling Brothers, Barnum & Bailey and
                    various others at various times. Of course, obviously the children enjoyed it and the adults enjoyed
                    it just as much or more.
            Another thing we had a few times here in 
                        Bloomington
                     prior to W. W. I was pilots who would come and show off "flying
                    machines" and they would bring their machines which were, you might say, bamboo and bailing
                    wire contraptions and they would fly them, and wind up landing in one of the fields and cracking up
                    the plane to some extent or another before they got through. There was a man who came on one of
                    these exhibition trips who had an artificial leg and it was said that he had lost the other leg as a
                    result of one of the accidents at some earlier occasion when he had been exhibiting. They were
                    certainly a far cry from airplanes of later days. At the beginning of W. W. I we were beginning to
                    see airplanes that were somewhat more like what we consider airplanes nowadays but still a far cry
                    from current aircraft. The recent show "baron Von Richthofen and Charles 
                        Brown
                    " which I saw at the movies was an excellent job of creating the old W. W. I
                    airplanes, Spads, Nieuports and [Sopwith] Camels and Messerschmits and various others. It was quite
                    a show and I enjoyed it very thoroughly. We used to follow the exploits in W. W. I of the American
                    pilots and the French and British pilots. There was, of course, Eddie Rickenbacker and his flying
                    circus and [Baron Manfred] Von Richthofen (the "Red Baron") and his flying circus
                    for the Germans, and then there was [Charles] Nungesser, the French pilot and a lot of others whose
                    exploits we read about in the newspapers and followed with considerable interest. They really were
                    dare devils and literally took their life in their hands every time they went out in the planes at
                    that time because the planes in those days "had to be flown all the way." There
                    was no particular stability in their designs and they did not have body armour or protection and
                    were not stressed for a  lot of the heavy maneuvers the fellows
                    put them through. It was certainly an interesting beginning of a chapter in history.49 While stationed at a camp on Long Island just before going overseas, Dr. Frank, then a
                    major, was with a group of men including an aviator who had just returned from 
                        France
                     to teach aerobatics and maneuvers to the student aviators. Some discussion occurred and
                    the doctor was interested in flying with him. There was a rule against anyone above the rank of
                    captain going up in a plane. He [Dr. Frank] turned to another officer whose jacket carried two bars
                    only and said "how would you like to trade jackets?" OK! The pilot took him up and
                    did all the maneuvers he could and came back down and told the other fellows "you can any
                    of you take the captain up any time he wants to go." The point to the story is that the
                    pilot was killed about two weeks later while a passenger in one of the old "hobnailed
                    hood" Cadillacs being driven by a chauffeur, when they encountered some rough gravel road
                    and the car overturned.
            BRITTANIC TOUR
            Just prior to the actual opening of W. W. I the American College of Surgeons was in joint meeting in
                    Great Britain with the Royal College of Surgeons and establishing the American College of Surgeons
                    as a new institution at that time. Dr. Frank Holland was one of the founders in this area and was
                    active in these affairs. He and my mother went to Great Britain on a ship for this meeting and at
                    the time W. W. I started they were there. There was considerable panic among the people who were
                    visiting in Europe and they all wanted to return home. Father says that he could have sold his state
                    room reservation on the returning ship for several times what it had cost him, to several people who
                    had more money than he had, as many were very much alarmed and very anxious to leave Europe and 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     which they [Dr. and Mrs. Holland] enjoyed very very much and that was one of the most
                    memorable events of their lives. In those days European tours and world 
                  
                     49 For further discussion of World War I airplanes and pilots see
                            James J. Hudson, Hostile Skies: A Combat History of the American Air Service in
                                World War I (
                                Syracuse
                            , 1968).
               
                     tours and trips of that magnitude were quite expensive and
                    certainly not done by the ordinary person, students, etc. the way they are done nowadays by the
                    combination of air and other transportation with special excursion rates and all the rest of it and
                    the scene was a very different one in that respect.
            INCIPIENCE OF THE KAISER WAR
            The Rainbow Division was organized and 
                        Bloomington
                    's Battery F was part of this group and went over fairly early in the history
                    of W. W. I.50 Dr. Frank Holland had organized a Field Hospital unit here which
                    was mobilized at the time of the Mexican border trouble with Pancho Villa and they were sent to
                    Texas to serve.51 This mobilization unit was of the National Guard and they
                    served on the Texas border for quite a while. They were stationed in the area of
                            
                  Brownsville, Texas
                and as I remember Llana Grande on the Texas side of the Rio
                    Grande river. Dr. Frank, as a medical officer, had to patrol in making his inspections, a section
                    along the Rio Grande River. He bought for that purpose a beautiful big Morgan Bred black horse which
                    he named "Billie." When they left that area they were succeeded by other units,
                    and he sold the horse to the man who was to serve as his successor in the work he had been doing
                    there. Some three weeks later, the successor was "picked off' by a Mexican sniper
                    from the other side of the river. They [Indiana units of the National Guard] were later federalized
                    and put in the Federal Service and stayed at various camps in this country and then in 
                        France
                     and various places. This was the 38th or "Cyclone Division." They
                    were organized and trained and made ready for shipment at Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    .52 At that time the families and 
                  
                     50 For a history of the Rainbow Division see Henry J. Reilly, Americans All, the Rainbow at War: Official History of the 42nd Rainbow
                                Division in the World War (
                                Columbus
                            , 1936).
                  
                     51 The border dispute between 
                                Mexico
                             and the 
                                United States
                             in 1916, in which Francisco "Pancho" Villa was a major
                            participant, is discussed in Clarence C. Clendenen, The 
                                    United States
                                 and Pancho Villa: A Study in Unconventional Diplomacy (
                                New York
                            , 1961); and Herbert M. Mason, Jr., The Great Pursuit (
                                New York
                            , 1970). A brief discussion of Indiana's participation in this incident
                            can be found in Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (The History of Indiana, Vol. IV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 591–92.
                  
                     52 Indiana's participation in World War I is discussed in
                            Phillips,
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE FRANK HOLLAND FAMILY CAMP SHELBY, MISSISSIPPI, C. 1917–1918
               
                    
                  HOLLAND FAMILY RESIDENCE CAMP SHELBY, MISSISSIPPI,
                            1917–1918
                  Courtsey Philip Todd Holland.
               
                    
                    
                  MAJOR GEORGE FRANK HOLLAND, C. 1919
               
                    
                  CAPTAIN GEORGE FRANK HOLLAND AND BILLIE, C. 1916–1917
                  Courtsey Philip Todd Holland.
               
                     men such as Dr. Frank Holland went to the camp and we lived
                    there in a little pine house 30 ft. x 30 ft. with a porch across the front and the back, a
                    make-shift shower on the back porch and a sawdust filled ice box on the back porch. This was the
                    pine tree area and some distance off the Gulf. As one of the Negro cleaning women said, when my
                    mother asked her why some of the characteristics of some of the population were as they were,
                    "well you know, Miz Holland most of the folks around here is just kind of backed up from
                    the Gulf foh various reasons." We young people were at the camp at that time and had our
                    own version of trench warfare and fired BB guns, and wore wash basins for helmets and we had
                    trenches and dugouts there in the red Mississippi dirt. It was as a wonder that more of us
                    weren't hurt than were. I think one boy caught a BB in the side of his cheek but nobody
                    lost an eye nor did anything else serious happen.
            The soldiers had built a dam across the end of a little valley at the camp and we used to
                    "dog trot" over there every afternoon to go swimming in the muddy water. I have
                    never been any warmer than I was then. The temperature was about 110 degrees every day and we were
                    too far north to get the Gulf breeze and as far south as we could be without getting it. Those were
                    interesting days, indeed. Of course, the tremendous "flu" epidemic came along and
                    swept the camps and surrounding communities as well. It was a very virulent type of influenza. It
                    was rapid in its action and leading to lung congestion, acute laryngitis and fluid in the chest and
                    various other complications and many many people were lost in that epidemic, some directly as a
                    result of the disease and some as a result of complications following the disease.53
            
            LIFE WITH THE DOUGHBOYS
            At Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg, Mississippi many of the 
                  
                     Indiana in Transition, 609–11; and Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana,
                            II, 375–88.
                  
                     53 The "Spanish flu" epidemic swept the entire 
                                United States
                             during the fall of 1918. Recent newspaper articles commemorating the fiftieth
                            anniversary of the Cyclone Division, indicate that in October, 1918, when Indiana soldiers
                            left Camp Shelby for Europe, the medical corpsmen were already battling the influenza
                            epidemic. 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Sunday Herald Times, August 27, 1967; 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Courier-Tribune, August 27, 1967.
               
                     fellows who were received there as new soldiers were from the
                    backwoods parts of Kentucky and 
                        Tennessee
                    , had very little if any education, and had never been away from their home area. The
                    long train ride to Hattiesburg was very impressive to them and so they arrived with various
                    impressions. One of them was heard to remark when he arrived in Hattiesburg, Mississippi that "
                        France
                     don't look much different than 
                        Kentucky
                    ." A lot of other amusing things happened during the days at Camp 
                        Shelby
                    . We were youngsters and of course as is usually the case, the youngsters are favored by
                    the older young men who were in this case the enlisted men in the various units of the service
                    there, and we got to be pretty accurate shots with our BB guns because we found out early that it
                    paid. The soldiers would put a penny, or nickel or dime up on a post and say "if you can
                    hit it you can have it." They would set the distance from which we would have to fire and
                    give us so many shots to knock it off. Needless to say our accuracy got to be pretty fair.
            We found another little thing of interest at that age of course, being youngsters, we would go to the
                    PX's and the commissary, all of which were just plank buildings built down in the pine
                    swamps in 
                        Mississippi
                    , and at regular intervals we found that we could crawl under the building under the
                    counters of the PX's and the commissaries where change had been dropped and had rolled
                    through between the cracks in the boards of the floor and nobody would bother to retrieve it, and we
                    would pick up a fair amount of pocket cash, enough to buy some soft drinks or ice cream and that, of
                    course, was one of our little occupations.
            We also used to shoot snakes in the swamp with our BB guns. We would gather chameleons and take them
                    home as pets. They made nice house pets and helped keep the house rid of flies. If you have ever
                    watched a chameleon catch a fly it is a rather startling bit of behavior. He sits perfectly quiet
                    and motionless until the fly comes within a certain distance which the chameleon can gauge very
                    carefully and all of a sudden there is a flash and the chameleon's tongue goes out an
                    amazing distance and there is no fly there. We were encouraged to bring the chameleons home!
            The sound of "Taps" blown by a bugle in the evening,  wafting across the red dirt and pine trees under such circumstances is
                    one which will forever after be associated with a thrill in one's spine.
            We used to see the columns at a distance as a detachment was leaving to go overseas, singing as they
                    marched along, the songs, "Over There", "Keep The Home Fires
                    Burning", "A Long Long Trail", "How Ya Gonna Keep 'Em
                    Down On the Farm?", "My Buddy" and the artilleryman's Caisson
                    Song and the infantry song.54 We realized many of them would not return, and
                    that would bring a lump in the throat, or a tear to an eye, but no one would acknowledge nor allow
                    it to be seen.
            A number of amusing stories of W. W. I were told by Dr. Frank. One concerned a dinner that was being
                    held, in the area where he was billeted in a small French Village, to do honor to the oldest
                    sergeant in the French Army. As the senior American officer in the area, he was invited to attend
                    and he did. His statement was that, "I never had dreamed there were so many kinds of wine
                    in the world, much less in that area." His boots were the type with the straight leg
                    portion attached to the shoe part in one piece. He said "I didn't want to disgrace
                    the Americans or my hosts, so when they weren't looking I'd empty some of the wine
                    down first one boot and then the other." "By the time the dinner was over and I
                    walked out there was wine splashing out of the top of each boot, and I had certainly had my fill to
                    drink." He brought home with him a fine water color picture of the old sergeant standing in
                    the trenches, which I still have in my possession.
            Another story of the same era and locale was to the effect that he wanted to take a bath. The French
                    never bathed in winter and would set their tubs on the back porch to hold the flower bulbs for
                    spring planting. He secured a rubber folding-type tub and got four blankets and hung them from the
                    clothes line in the back yard and proceeded to have a bath! He had not pretended
                    to any degree of fluency in French, but understood quite a bit more French than some of the
                    villagers realized. While he was bathing, 
                  
                     54 A discussion of the songs of World War I and their place in the war
                            effort can be found in Bruce Catton, "He Wanted to Murder the Bugler," American Heritage, XVIII (August, 1967), 50–55,
                            101–102.
               
                     outside the fence around the back yard, some of the natives
                    were chattering about "the crazy American Commandant" (Major), and how terrible
                    and dangerous it was to take a bath in wintertime, etc. Later, some of them found out that, although
                    he didn't speak much French, he'd understood their comments well
                    enough! A committee called on him then to offer their apologies graciously. For some years after the
                    war he would hear cordially, occasionally, from some of the families with whom he had been billeted
                    so, he must have had a pleasant relationship with his wartime hosts.
            ON THE HOME FRONT
            In 
                        Bloomington
                     we were on a wartime basis. We were saving coal, sugar and flour, and using all sorts
                    of substitutes for various things in order to provide for the wartime needs of the troops and the
                    wartime economy of the country. In 1917 our own home on N. College Ave. caught fire, apparently
                    under the roof and in the area which was later made into a third story as I described earlier in the
                    book and we gathered it probably was from some faulty wiring. This destroyed the roof and damaged
                    the house very severely. It burned holes in the second floor and did a lot of damage. At that time
                    the old Hill house north of us was occupied by Professor Morton C. Campbell at the I. U. Law School
                    and they gave us shelter until we could arrange things a bit. Their family was Mary Elizabeth, Bill
                    (my age), Leila (my sister's age) and Bob who was my brother's age. This was
                    hardly surprising because, due to the parallelism of the various ages, plus proximity, there was a
                    vast amount of junior traffic between the houses all the time normally. In the old house the one big
                    back room on the second floor was a play place for all, and we amused ourselves arranging shows to
                    have there. Sometimes they were magic shows we devised. Othertimes some sections from
                    "Pecks Bad Boy" or "Penrod" or some similar story55 and sometimes shadow-picture shows. Time was needed for the preparations and when
                    finally all was ready we would invite all to come in, 
                  
                     55 During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries George
                            Wilbur Peck wrote a series of books about Peck's Bad Boy, including one of the
                            earliest, Peck's Bad Boy and His Pa (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883). Booth Tarkington, Penrod (
                                New York
                            , 1914).
               
                     admission one cent or a nickel, perhaps, and stage the
                    performance. One evening I lost my balance and put my right arm out to catch against the window
                    frame, but missed it and my hand went through the window pane. It was cut pretty badly, laying bare
                    the tendons, but, fortunately not severing them. I had to go down to see Dr.
                    [Fred] Batman and he sewed me "back together" again. My father was away at the
                    time in Texas and he was allowed leave to come home. He came home to see about getting his house put
                    back in order. During that time we lived in a house owned by Mr. & Mrs. Kerr on S.
                    Washington St. just below the alley south of 4th St., on the west side of the street. The house is
                    no longer there. The old home was repaired and renovated, new flooring put on the second floor and a
                    sun porch on the first floor below the enclosure of the second floor porch to make a sleeping porch.
                    The old shed was torn down back of the house and a brick garage was put there. It was a 2 car
                    garage, the cars to be run in in tandem, at the north side of the house extending directly back to
                    the corner of the lot.
            Many 
                        Bloomington
                     people served in the field hospital medical unit including Dr. R[obert] T. Ross the
                    dentist (now retired) and many others who are known in 
                        Bloomington
                     and whose names I cannot at this moment recall.
            While we were living in the little house on 
                        Washington
                     St. the expressman came to our home one day and asked my mother where she wanted this
                    "bureau" put and she did not know what he might be talking about, but it developed
                    when she went out to see what he had, that inside a crate of modest dimensions there had arrived a
                    small Mexican burro which father had bought (for $5.00) along the
                    border of Texas and sent up for the youngsters to have for a pet. We decided the burro's
                    name should be "Chiquita" and she was a pet and we had her for a few years even
                    after we moved back to the old home after it had been repaired. She was one of the neighborhood
                    "facilities" which all of us children enjoyed.
            While father was in the service Bob Harris was manager of the Harris-Grand and Princess Theaters. He
                    owned and operated them. He gave us permission since our father was away, to come to his shows
                    anytime that we cared to and see the show. The only money we had to pay was the government tax on
                    the ticket which was a few cents at that time. I 
                    
                  514 NORTH COLLEGE AVENUE, C.
                            1908–1909
               
                    
                  514 NORTH COLLEGE AVENUE AS REPAIRED AFTER THE FIRE
                  
                  Courtesy Philip Todd Holland.
               
                     must say we appreciated that immensely because the income was
                    not very great and things were pretty tight financially speaking.
            There were many in the community who were away. Many were injured or killed in action. Many died in
                    camps of the flu epidemic and the community was in a rather tightened frame of mind. The University
                    had the SATC, (Student Army Training Corps) which was occupying the fraternity houses and such
                    dormitories as there were at that time, and other facilities available.56
            
            A little side issue of the time spent at the Camp Shelby was the fact that my father secured for me a
                    regulation Army bugle which had been "surveyed" because it was very badly dented.
                    I would go over in the swamp area (where the noise would not be heard much) with the men who were
                    the buglers there for the Army and I practiced with them and learned all the bugle calls there were
                    in the book. I later became a member of the Indiana University Drum and Bugle Corps which was quite
                    a thing before the Marching 100 [Indiana University's marching band] really became the
                    magnificent outfit that it is now.
            My first recollection of the football coaching at Indiana was when coach [Ewald O.] Jumbo Stiehm came
                    and moved into the house on E. 8th St. and coached the team with great success and I went to some of
                    the games. I must admit that I do not remember who we played and just what the outcome of the game
                    was because I was too young to remember about that. James A. Kase was the athletic director and
                    swimming [wrestling] coach and in charge of many other activities at that time. This was prior to
                    the war.
            MEDICINE BEFORE THE WAR
            The first x-ray machine in this area was bought by Dr. Frank Holland. It was a very impressive huge
                    piece of machinery which occupied most of a moderate size room and it was nothing like our present
                    machines. It had a large number of wet cell batteries with the bimetallic plates in 
                  
                     58 A discussion of the Student Army Training Corps at Indiana
                            University can be found in Myers, History of Indiana University,
                            208–12.
               
                    
                    
                  LIBERTY BOND DRIVE DURING WORLD WAR I IN FRONT
                                OF HARRIS GRAND THEATER,
                            1918
                  Courtesy Indiana University Museum, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     solution in the glass jars and this served as a source of
                    direct current, battery current, for the operation of the machine in addition to which there were
                    three large discs, plateglass between 3 and 4 feet in diameter, 2 of which rotated, and the other
                    one remained stationary and on these were fastened pie-shaped segments of foil. This machine created
                    a heavy charge of static electricity through the passing of these foil segments past each other and
                    someone had to turn the crank or handle to rotate these glass plates. That was one of the chores I
                    got early in life. These x-ray machines were essentially unshielded and there was very little
                    insulation so great care had to be used in using them or you got a very nasty
                    shock!
            Another chore that I fell heir to fairly early was helping in reduction of fractures. I would as a
                    countertraction take firm hold, for instance in a fracture of the forearm, on the patient's
                    arm, and then Dr. Frank would pull and manipulate the distal portion of the forearm to reduce for
                    instance a Colle's fracture of which we had many in those days. This was partly due to the
                    fact that people had to crank their automobiles by hand. In fractures of the lower extremity it was
                    my job to maintain the traction and maintain the position while a plaster cast for instance was
                    applied and while it dried. I had learned early that the only way that I could manage to do this was
                    to lean back and let my weight do the traction rather than trying to do the pull by muscle exertion
                    directly. The old automobiles all had to be hand cranked to get them started and, of course, if they
                    backfired the crank would turn violently backward against you and give you serious damage or
                    fracture to the wrist or distal forearm. You learned pretty soon that the only way you could do it
                    was to start at the bottom of the stroke which was in a clockwise direction and put your hand around
                    the handle with the thumb parallel with the other fingers rather than over the crank handle so that
                    as you pulled it up through a half turn up to the 12 o'clock position of the crank you
                    would be able, if it backfired, to let the fingers straighten out and you would have time to get
                    your hand out of the way and you did not sprain your thumb by having it go against your thumb. That
                    was one of the little tricks you had to learn.
            
            MEDICAL RECOLLECTIONS
            One day Dr. Frank received a call from Paoli, Indiana, a town south of here, which was a fair
                    distance and of course at this time as I remarked before there were no paved roads. The old roads
                    were high crowned macadam, not very wide, and not very straight. They were nothing like our roads of
                    today. The old cars in those days were constructed with brakes only on the rear wheels. There was no
                    such thing as four wheel brakes. The brake drum on the rear wheel usually had an
                    internal expanding brake band, and an external contracting brake band, one of which was connected
                    with the hand brake or the so-called emergency brake and the other with the regular foot brake. It
                    appeared, according to the information received on his call, that Mr. Chilton Pleasants who was the
                    Illinois Central agent in 
                        Bloomington
                     at that time, was seriously ill and Dr. Frank was urged to get there as rapidly as
                    possible as he was his physician. I was occupying the front seat and Dr. Frank drove on the left
                    front side and I think Mrs. Louise Pleasants and possibly one of her daughters and Hubert 
                        Brown
                     went with him also down to Paoli to see about Mr. Pleasants. We were trying to make all
                    the time we could and as I said the roads were pretty poor and we would approach the curves at a
                    pretty good rate of speed, and father would put on the foot brake, and then I would apply a little
                    additional pressure with the other brake band by means of the hand brake, not holding the clutch on
                    the hand brake so that it did not remain fastened, and I would put the additional braking power on
                    until we got about into the curve and release the brake and we could take the curves a little faster
                    that way than we could otherwise and we got a little more braking power out of the old brakes. These
                    old cars were really something!
            Another interesting thing that happened was a call (as a matter of fact I think someone came to the
                    house or to the office late in the day) saying some hunters had been hunting out northeast of town
                    far back in the woods off all the beaten roads and this one hunter had apparently stood up on a
                    stump to look for more game or to view the countryside and his gun had slipped off and the hammer
                    had hit on the stump and the shotgun had discharged into his abdomen.  He had been taken to the nearest place where anyone lived which
                    happened to be the home of an old hermit who lived out in that area. There weren't very
                    many houses around so we drove across a few fields to get to the place. I went with Dr. Frank and he
                    went prepared, because there were no ambulances and there was no way to take care of anything and
                    the situation would not have been much better if he had come to town because there
                    was not much in the way of a facility to take care of him at the time. An old doctor by the name of
                    Fritch was there and he agreed to give a chloroform anesthetic while Dr. Frank did the surgery on
                    the man. The light we were using was coal oil lights and the operation was done on the kitchen table
                    as was not too uncommon in those days. Lots of surgeries were done on the kitchen tables before they
                    had hospitals with the facilities we have at the present time. It was dark and there were a lot of
                    neighbors, or people in the area, who had come over because of all the excitement and activity and I
                    was given one of the coal oil lights down near the patient's feet, and one of the onlookers
                    was asked to hold the other light. In a little while he said "Doc I've got to get
                    some air" and he went out, and another man took his place and this went on several times.
                    Finally I wound up having to hold both the lights while the operation proceeded,
                    attempting to find and locate and close the multitude of perforations in this man's
                    intestinal tract. I was reminded of this by one of the men who had been there, as recently as about
                    1967 or 1968, who asked me if I had been the young fellow who was there at that time on this
                    occasion. So you see things were pretty primitive in those days.
            In those days the relationships between families and their doctors were very real and strong and put
                    down some deep "tap roots". As an example, Mary Bennets parents used to come from
                    Harrodsburg to consult Dr. P. C. Holland and later Dr. G. F. Holland. Later she married Claude
                    Smallwood and they and their son were cared for by Dr. Frank, and still later by me so the
                    friendship and association carried through the generations. I cared for many patients who had been
                    patients of both Dr. P. C. and G. F. Holland before me.
            
            THE OLDER DOCTORS OF MONROE COUNTY
            This does not purport to be a catalogue, or even a history of the medical profession of the time, but
                    simply reminiscences of the older doctors as I remember them. Mrs. Bea Snoddy is writing a real
                    biographical story of the older doctors from the beginning in Monroe and Owen counties, and
                    I'm hoping it will be finished ere too long.
            I heard people speak of old Dr. Loudermilk and old Dr. Weir but knew neither. I think they had
                    "read medicine."
            Dr. John Tourner was a straight, clean-cut gentleman who had an office on the west side of Walnut
                    between 3rd and 4th Sts. He was a general practitioner of good repute. His younger brother, Dr.
                    Frank Tourner, was a more jovial and friendly type, a gentleman of the old school of family doctors.
                    His office was below 3rd St. on the east side of College Ave. His grandson, Dr. Richard Schilling,
                    is in practice in 
                        Bloomington
                     at the present time.
            Dr. Rodney D. Smith and his wife were well known and well loved in the community. He had served in
                    the 
                        Philippines
                     in the Army. When he came here, he did a general practice and as surgery became more
                    prevalent gave anesthetics (at that time open ether was about all we had) for the majority of
                    surgeries for a good many years. His home and office were at the southwest corner of 6th St. and 
                        Washington
                    . His years of practice overlapped my grandfathers, my fathers and mine.
            Dr. [O. M.?] Morris was one of the older doctors who had "read medicine", I
                    believe, and had an office on the west side of College Ave. below 3rd St. and below the present Ford
                    parking lot.
            Dr. J[oseph] Kentling had a home and office on the southeast corner of College Ave. and 4th St. just
                    across the street from the Tourner Hotel. I knew of him, but never was acquainted with him. I
                    understand he was an avid cardplayer!
            Dr. Lucy and Dr. Fletcher Gardner were in the community early in the century. They were here and then
                    left the community for another location.
            Dr. Robert and Dr. Otto Rogers were located at the northeast corner of 6th and 
                        Washington
                    . Dr. Bob died not  too many years ago. Dr. Otto
                    died some years earlier. He and his wife had a daughter, Florence, about the age of my sister and a
                    son O. F. Rogers Jr. who was a colleague of mine and mentioned elsewhere. His death [O. F. Rogers,
                    Jr.] occurred only recently and was a great loss to the community. His son is now entering upon the
                    study of medicine.
            Dr. J[ohn] E. Luzadder, a general practitioner, had an office on the south side of the square
                    upstairs. His home was on 8th, north side, between Walnut and 
                        Washington
                    . They had two sons, one Gilbert, now deceased, and John, a doctor practicing upstate.
            Dr. James W. Wiltshire was one of the older of the general practitioners. They lived on North Park
                    and his office was on South 
                        Lincoln
                     below Kirkwood.
            Old Dr. [John C.] Ross had two sons, Mel, a general practitioner and R[obert] T. Ross, a dentist.
                    They had come up this way from 
                        Kentucky
                    . He practiced during my grandfather's and father's time.
            Dr. Ed. [C. Edward] Harris came to 
                        Bloomington
                     somewhere just after the turn of the century. His home and office were on the east side
                    of College between 4th and 3rd Sts. He had, for those days a pretty good education. He had one son,
                    now living on the west coast.
            Dr. Fred Batman and his wife, Pansy, came to the town to practice somewhat later than Dr. Frank
                    Holland. He was a general practitioner and well known and well liked. He had attended a regular
                    medical college of that time. His daughter and her family are still living in 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Dr. J. E. Moser started some few years after Dr. Frank Holland started practice. He was a graduate of
                    a medical school and did considerable surgery for some years. His home was on 7th St., south side,
                    just west of Indiana Ave. The house still stands.
            Dr. Leon Whetsell was a rather colorful person, who bought a large house on the northwest corner of
                    8th and College Ave. He installed one of the earlier, but more advanced x-ray machines. He had two
                    sons, one a doctor upstate and I do not know the whereabouts of the other.
            Dr. W [alter] N. Culmer was a graduate of a good school and came here before W. W. I and did a
                    practice of ear, nose and throat work. He was a fine gentleman, very public-spirited,  well known and respected. They had one daughter, Peggy.
            Dr. J[ames] E. P. Holland came to 
                        Bloomington
                     about 1909 or 1910, I believe. His office was on Walnut, east side between 7th and 8th,
                    and still stands there. He married Beryl Showers and they had one son Charles (M.D., now deceased)
                    whose son is now living in 
                        Bloomington
                    . He [J. E. P. Holland] was physician for Indiana University for quite some years. In
                    his private practice he did ophthalmology. He took part in many civic activities and was the first
                    President of 
                        Bloomington
                     Rotary Club. There was no relationship between their family and ours.
            Dr. Homer Woolery had an office and house at the northwest corner of 7th St. and 
                        Washington
                    . He did a medical practice and in his large office building there did a lot of
                    obstetrics. He brought a number of young doctors to the community but none stayed with him. I
                    believe they included Dr. Ben Ross and Dr. Ray Borland, Dr. T. H. Wilson and last Dr. Neal Baxter
                    and possibly some others.
            Dr. George Mitchell came to Smithville, Indiana and set up to do a county general practice there. He
                    did obstetrics and medicine and was a courageous and resourceful doctor really dedicated to the sick
                    in his area. Money, time of day, weather, etc., made no difference to him through his long years. He
                    was a staunch friend of Dr. Frank Holland (and later of mine) and was a very good diagnostician, who
                    practiced without benefit of hospital, laboratories or assistance. He died only a few years ago
                    after a long lifetime of service.
            Dr. D[eward] J. Holland came from Harrodsburg, practiced in 
                        Bedford
                     for a while after graduation from medical school and after the World War [I] moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    . His widow still lives in 
                        Bloomington
                     and they had two boys and a daughter. Again, there was no relationship to our family.
            CHORES
            As I mentioned about the old house on North College the central heat with the hot water heating
                    system was put in and due to the size of the house it required a good big furnace to heat sufficient
                    water to service this heating plant which used  coal. My father
                    used to say that we used about one freight carload of coal per winter in this old furnace. The
                    furnace had to be hand fired with the shovel and the grate shaken and the ashes taken out and
                    carried out to the back. For the most part this was one of the chores that I had to do and I was
                    relieved later when we got an "Iron Fireman Stoker" type, feed for the furnace
                    which eliminated firing it by hand although it still left much to be desired in that the heavy
                    sulfur-fumed clinkers would accumulate in large masses and they had to be taken out with tongs and
                    that was a rather smelly job and not the pleasantest one imaginable. Later gas conversions were
                    used. The office furnace went through much the same cycle of engineering and source of heat and a
                    lot of the time I had the job of taking care of that also as part of my chores. The grass at the old
                    home had to be cut also with the old pusher type mower.
            HOBBY-AUTOS
            Long before I was old enough to have a license to drive I was servicing cars, greasing them, checking
                    the alignment of the front wheels, spacing the plugs, and timing the ignition system, adjusting
                    brakes and doing all that sort of work that was to be done. This, of course, gave me a very early
                    interest in automobiles and I began, after I was old enough to have a driver's license,
                    working on some of them and with the idea of improving their performance or their capabilities one
                    way or another. The first one I had was an old Model-T we made "underslung" as
                    they called it in those days, with a couple of brackets in the front and rear which would place the
                    springs down under the front axle rather than riding on top of it as was the original design of the
                    Model-T. This lowered the center of gravity quite a little bit. Then we did various things to the
                    engine. We put overhead valves on them and various other modifications to improve the performance of
                    the automobile and they were quite popular. One of the amusing things was this car was not too
                    heavy, as you would realize if you knew them, and tires had to be changed quite frequently in those
                    days. It was not at all uncommon to change several tires on a trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and back. I had learned a little trick of lifting with my knees and my thighs with my
                    back straight as I had an old jack that did  not work well in
                    the normal way but I could set it at a certain height and I would back up to one wheel of this car
                    and lift it until my friend who was accompanying me would set the jack under the axle, and we would
                    proceed to repair the tire and be on our way. I had a lot of fun out of this because, although it
                    sounds like a prodigious feat of strength it really isn't. It is a matter of knowing how to
                    lift and I saw a good many of my friends waste a good bit of effort trying to duplicate the feat. It
                    was a little source of amusement.
            Later I had a 1913 Regal chassis which had been for many many years in a garage somewhere, and did
                    not have too many miles on it. I bought it from Bill Fulwider who was a friend of mine. His father
                    was Jess Fulwider who ran the lumber yard [W. A. Fulwider Company] here in 
                        Bloomington
                     which later became Black Lumber Company and I drove it for some time with the original
                    engine which had an old cast block engine with a cone clutch. The car was a right-hand
                        drive car and was underslung by putting the springs above the front and
                    rear axles and the frame underneath and then the car's motor was mounted
                    on a subframe at the front end inside the frame. This car worked fine for me until I broke a
                    wrist-pin one day up by Cloverdale and one of the pistons was pushed up through the top of the cast
                    block main portion of the engine by the connecting rod and that was bad and something had to be
                    done! I got a 1918 4-cylinder Chevrolet block put in with the old cone clutch of that model and
                    installed off-set rocker arms and ground out the inlet and exhaust valve ports. The valves had to be
                    special because when we used the ordinary type of valves the heads pulled off because of the high
                    lift rocker arms so we wound up putting some one piece Thompson silichrome steel valves that were
                    used in a Dodge automobile about that time and some "keepers" that came off a
                    Buick and we had a 2½ inch Rayfield carburetor that came off a National automobile and I
                    reduced the weight of the fly wheel considerably and put a high tension Delco ignition on the car
                    and drilled the crank shaft for high pressure oil and it developed into quite a vehicle. A 1923
                    Chevrolet rear system was installed. It would turn up about 4200 revolutions per minute and with the
                    gear ratio and tire size that we had, that would produce a speed of about 90–95 miles an
                    hour. This was remarkable for those days in the early '20's. Those cars 
                    
                  PHILIP TODD HOLLAND and 1913 REGAL
                  
               
                    
                  MODIFIED 1913 REGAL
                  
                  Courtesy Philip Todd Holland.
               
                     that were coming out of 
                        Detroit
                    , Packards, and Cadillacs etc., were not doing more than about 60 or 65 miles an hour at
                    their best. My brother and my sister used to help me work on these old cars and they would help
                    grind valves and all sorts of things like that. They got to go with me when we went places and that
                    was a lot of fun. My brother, not too long ago, reminded me of riding in this old Regal to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and back one day and he said that we had to fix tires 6 different times on this one
                    trip. This was not at all unusual in those days because the tires were not the quality that we are
                    used to now and had inner tubes.
            Finally the car was sold when I left 
                        Bloomington
                     to go to school. It was sold to a man who used it for dirt track racing and I saw it
                    quite some years later over by 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana. It had no fenders and a step on each side with no running board. I did put a
                    windshield on it. There were bucket seats and we sat flat on the floor and I had a little short
                    gearshift lever which was to my left. There was no emergency brake and no lock on the car but I had
                    an extra ignition switch or two which I managed to flip, when my passenger was not looking and the
                    car would not operate without it. That was the only way I could lock it. This was quite a vehicle
                    for those days. Another item about this car was that I had to take out one quadrant of the 4-spoke
                    steering wheel so that I could slide in and out under the steering wheel because the wheel rode very
                    low in the car and one as I said, sat flat in the car, and being underslung as it was there was no
                    weight above the tops of the tires except one's head and shoulders. It was a very
                    maneuverable car as far as the center of gravity was concerned. We had lots of trouble getting the
                    front end adjusted. I tried various shock absorbers and I never did get really satisfactory ones
                    that would keep from getting a terrific bounce in the front wheels when you got up to a fairly high
                    speed at 70, 75 or 80.
            FIRST AIRPLANE RIDES
            The first airplane I had a chance to ride in was, incidentally in Fort 
                  Knox, Kentucky
               . I
                    was there in the CMTC (Civilian Military Training Corps Camp) during the summer for three weeks. I
                    had one CMTC camp there and then when in the university the first two years took ROTC [Reserve  Officers Training Corps] and took the summer camp of the ROTC
                    at Fort Knox these 2 other summers. I am sure this was very good discipline for me and helped me
                    physically a great deal and I remember much about it. This one summer with the CMTC there was an
                    Army Air Corps pilot with a W. W. I DeHaviland biplane with a Liberty engine in it. It was an old
                    type of biplane and vintage and this was the type of plane that General 
                        Mitchell
                     later called the "flying coffins" in his noted discourse and argument
                    with the "powers that be" in the Army, Navy and War Department, etc.57 These old planes, had nothing like the stability of our modern airplanes and they
                    "had to be flown all the way!" I will say that I had a very interesting ride. This
                    was an open cockpit plane and I rode in the backseat and enjoyed the ride very much. It was really a
                    thrill and the first time that I had ever had that experience happen. The second airplane ride I
                    ever had was in the Waco cabin plane owned by Wylie Carter of 
                        Bloomington
                     who was at that time in the automobile business [College Avenue Motor and Sales
                    Company] in 
                        Bloomington
                     and Wylie was, I believe, 
                        Bloomington
                    's first civilian pilot to the best of my knowledge. I flew with him in his old
                    Waco plane one time and that was another interesting experience.
            DOWN ON THE FARM
            In the early '20's my father bought some farm property west of 
                        Bloomington
                     which was about 185 acres and much of it was woodland. It was very badly run down and
                    badly washed. There had been no conservation practice and no soil rotation and there were gullies
                    that one could drive a horse and wagon into and they would just disappear. The house had been
                    occupied by people who were so worthless that they, with 150 acres to the back of them, tore up the
                    floor boards in the kitchen to use for kindling. The rest of the house was in 
                  
                     57 Brigadier General William 
                                Mitchell
                             was a pioneer in military aviation and one of the outstanding 
                                United States
                             combat air commanders in World War I. Following the war he became an outspoken
                            proponent of an independent 
                                United States
                             air force and of unified control of air power, both of which were opposed by
                            the general staffs of the army and navy. In 1925 because of his vitriolic criticism of the
                            war and navy departments, 
                                Mitchell
                             was courtmartialed and convicted of insubordination. He resigned from the army
                            in 1926. See Roger Burlingame, General Billy 
                                    Mitchell
                                : Champion of Air Defense (
                                New York
                            , 1952).
               
                     comparable condition. I spent a good bit of time out there
                    helping a man by the name of Duka Wood who had been discharged because of illness, from the Marine
                    Corps and old Mr. [William] Dean who was a carpenter and who was the father of Everett Dean, the
                    basketball [and baseball] coach later here at 
                        Bloomington
                    . We managed to build on the house a brick porch around the north and east and west
                    sides. We put wall board in place of the old broken plaster that was in the house and rehabilitated
                    the house and got it wired for electricity so that there could be electric lights there and all the
                    acre-age of the farm fenced, cleaned the place up and started the process of getting a fill in those
                    deep gullies and washed out places. During the summertime, a couple of summers, my brother lived
                    there with me and he would work, and spend part of his time, going in ahead to get something for us
                    to eat in the kitchen. He became a pretty good cook. I think the best biscuits that I ever ate were
                    cooked by him on the old wood-fired range that we had in the old kitchen in the old farm house. We
                    had a lot of pleasant companionship that way and that was good outdoor occupation for both of us and
                    I am sure benefited us both physically. The experience was good.
            FINIS
            Our story has come to an end here, with all sorts of recollections, active, pleasant, and
                    instructive. Many things have happened since to many of the folks you read about. To quiet your
                    curiosity, I will simply add that Philip, Elizabeth, and Bill are all alive and active now and have
                    their homes, their mates, their children and their grandchildren and their memories! What more could one ask?
         
         
         
            
               Chase C. Mooney
               1972
               Courtesy Loraine Binkley Mooney
            
            
            Memorial Tribute to Chase C. Mooney∗
            
            
               CHASE C. MOONEY
               
               1972
               Courtesy Loraine Binkley Mooney.
            
            Chase Mooney was born in Davidson County, 
                        Tennessee
                    , on December 30, 1913, and lived on a farm there during his boyhood. He enrolled as an
                    undergraduate and later as a graduate student at Vanderbilt University, where he earned a B.A. magna cum laude in 1935 and a Ph.D. in history in 1939. Throughout his time at
                    Vanderbilt, he held scholarships and fellowships, reflecting an excellent record. He was elected to
                    Phi Beta Kappa, in whose affairs he always remained active (including a recent term as president of
                    the Indiana University chapter).
            He and his wife Loraine moved to 
                  Gainesville,
                            Georgia
               , for his first teaching position at Brenau
                    College (1939–1942). Early in World War II, he went to 
                        Washington
                     as a senior historian with the Army Air Force. Out of this three-year service came
                    several monographs on the history of the Air Force and a citation commending him for outstanding
                    contributions. Before and after the assignment in 
                        Washington
                    , in the early 1940s, he taught briefly at Vanderbilt, Southern Methodist, and the
                    University of 
                        Mississippi
                    . Visiting professorships at Johns Hopkins and 
                        Alaska
                     Methodist followed in later years.
            In 1946 the Mooneys, with their two children Barbara and 
                        Wayne
                    , came to 
                        Bloomington
                    . As a young member of the Department of History, he was immersed in his work at a
                    moment when the University received a heavy influx of returning veterans and sought to adjust to
                    new, postwar circumstances. He taught large classes in general 
                        United States
                     history and in his special field, the history of the South and of the Civil War era. He
                    often recalled these days as hectic, indeed rugged, but rewarding. Because of his unfailing
                    willingness to give of himself and the quality of what he had to contribute, his services were
                    called upon repeatedly by the University and the community. He was involved in, and often chaired,
                    numerous committees on scholarships, teaching, student relations, and curriculum. He became a highly
                    respected 
                  
                     ∗ This memorial tribute to Professor Chase C. Mooney was
                            prepared by a committee composed of Professors Maurice Baxter (chairman), William Harris,
                            George Juergens, and Martin Ridge to be presented to the Faculty Council of Indiana
                            University. The final paragraph of the resolution has been omitted here.
               
                     senior faculty member, capable of taking on difficult
                    assignments, including every position of administrative leadership in his department and the
                    associate editorship of the prestigious Journal of American History, which he
                    helped bring here in 1963.
            His research focused on the Old South, particularly its institution of slavery and its path toward
                    Civil War. An outcome of these investigations was his monograph, Slavery in 
                            Tennessee
                        , an impressive study of the relationship of slavery to agriculture and to
                    society in that state. At the time of his death (April 29, 1973), his major project, a biography of
                    the early nineteenth-century 
                        Georgia
                     politician, William H. Crawford, was coming off the press. There were many other
                    items—papers and articles—in his extensive bibliography.
            His personal qualities gave him a special place in the lives of those who knew him. Perhaps his most
                    prominent characteristic was a sense of humor—he loved to tell stories and to be
                    entertained by the stories of others. But there were much deeper aspects to the man. His colleagues
                    and students knew him for his wisdom, his warmth, his openness to different points of view, his
                    outspoken dislike of hypocrisy, his own blunt honesty, his capacity to grow and remain abreast of
                    the times. He offered his friendship freely; and whether in his office or at home, his door was
                    always open. As such, he won the particular affection of generations of students, and of younger
                    colleagues who benefitted from his assistance and advice.
            With the death of Chase Mooney, at the height of his career, Indiana University lost a distinguished
                    teacher-scholar; and countless people in 
                        Bloomington
                     and throughout the country lost a true and highly valued friend.
            BOOKS AND PRINCIPAL ARTICLES
                    BY CHASE C. MOONEY
               ∗∗
            
            BOOKS
            
               
                  Organization of the Army Air Arm, 1935–1945 (
                            Washington
                        , 1956). This work and four other monographs were originally mimeographed for
                        distribution within the Army Air Forces. In 1956 this volume, as 
                     
                        ∗∗ This bibliography is taken from a curriculum vitae prepared by Professor Mooney in the fall of 1972.
                                Articles edited by Mooney are indicated by an asterisk. No attempt has been made to list
                                his more than sixty book reviews, including several in the Indiana Magazine
                                    of History.
                     
                  
                         revised by Edward C. Williamson, USAF Historical Division,
                        Research Studies Institute, Air University, was published for wider distribution.
               
                  Slavery in 
                                Tennessee
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1957). Reprinted, 1971.
               
                  Civil Rights: Retrospect and Prospects (A.H.A. Service Center for Teachers
                        of History, Publication No. 37; 
                            Washington
                        , 1961, 1966).
               
                  Civil Rights and Liberties (American Problem Series; 
                            New York
                        , 1964). Revised, 1965.
               A biography of William H. Crawford is soon to be released by the University Press of
                                
                     Kentucky, Lexington
                  .
            
            ARTICLES
            
               "Some Institutional and Statistical Aspects of Slavery in 
                            Tennessee
                        ," Tennessee Historical Quarterly, I (September, 1942),
                        195–228.
               "The Question of Slavery and the Free Negro in the Tennessee Constitutional
                        Convention of 1834," Journal of Southern History, XII (November,
                        1946), 487–509.
               
                  ∗"Some Letters from 
                     Dover, Tennessee
                  , 1814
                        to 1855," Tennessee Historical Quarterly, VIII (June, 1949),
                        154–84; VIII (September, 1949), 252–83; VIII (December, 1949),
                        345–65; IX (March, 1950), 64–93; IX (June, 1950), 155–70.
               
                  ∗"Two Forsyth Letters," 
                     
                                Georgia
                             Historical Quarterly, XXXV (June, 1951), 152–56.
               "The Political Career of Adam Huntsman," Tennessee Historical
                            Quarterly, X (June, 1951), 99–126.
               "The Literature of Slavery: A Re-Evaluation," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XLVII (September, 1951), 251–60.
               "Some Phases of the Compulsory Military Training Movement,
                        1914–1920," Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXXVIII
                        (March, 1952), 633–56. Coauthored with Martha E. Layman.
               
                  ∗"A Union Chaplain's Diary," Proceedings of the 
                                New Jersey
                             Historical Society, LXXV (January, 1957), 1–17.
               "
                            United States
                         Geology, Animal Life and Vegetation," Encyclopedia
                        Britannica (1960).
               "William H. Crawford," Encyclopedia Britannica (1960).
               
                  ∗"From 
                                Old Vincennes
                            , 1815," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (June, 1961),
                        141–54.
               "Civil Rights Movements," Encyclopedia Americana (1967). Revised, 1968.
               "Civil Rights Movement," American Year Book (1969).
               "A Matter of Priorities?" Indiana University Review, XII
                        (Summer, 1970), 26–33.
               
                  ∗"An Indiana Democrat of Southern Origin Speaks for
                        the Union, 1832," Indiana Magazine of History, LVIII (June, 1962),
                        141–44.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Historical Society Lectures, 1971–1972: History and the Role of
                        the City in American Life. By Arthur Mann, Neil Harris, and Sam Bass Warner, Jr. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 65. Notes, illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $1.50.)
            In spite of its title this brief anthology is not simply a collection of essays geared to questions
                    concerning the influence of cities in American life. It is an intriguing set of reflections on a
                    basic problem created in America by the combined forces of urbanization, immigration, and
                    technological development: the fact that as our nation has developed into a highly mechanized and
                    rationalized environment it has become a society plagued by social fragmentation. It is this
                    fragmentation, this inability in America to make social and institutional components function for
                    the benefit and betterment of the society at large, which provides a real and compelling focus for
                    the Lectures. The reader will quickly discover that although each of the three
                    authors in the collection examines the fragmentation process in a different way, all of them share a
                    common sensitivity to what is undoubtedly one of the most pervasive contemporary American social
                    problems.
            After exploring the creation of ethnic and racial blocks in America's cities, Mann invites
                    his audience to consider the unpleasant fact that Americans have grown so accustomed to classifying
                    each other as members of one or another social tribe that they often fail to recognize the
                    variations in individual personality or behavior which exist in spite of ethnic labels. In so doing,
                    they too often function not as members of one society but as unthinking advocates of an arbitrary
                    and misleading system of social categorization.
            The evolution of urban culture is the subject of the second lecture in the anthology, but the
                    analysis bears a striking similarity to the first selection. Harris points out  that the essential purpose of cultural institutions in the 
                        United States
                    , from art museums to television studios, is to educate and serve the national
                    community. He contends, however, that this purpose has over time become highly fragmented, split
                    between the sophisticated repositories of elite culture which ignore the public and undiscriminating
                    purveyors of popular culture bent on reaching huge audiences at the expense of nourishing the
                    highest levels of artistic achievement. Thus, in their culture as in their social groupings,
                    Americans use their national wealth and achievements to nourish narrow compartmentalization as well
                    as integration.
            The same holds true for the history profession, as Warner sees it. University faculties talk of the
                    need to educate the nation to its history but practice a ritual of professionalism which serves more
                    to isolate the professionals from the layman than to educate. In the long run such academic
                    isolation serves only to weaken the concern for, and interest in, the study of history. The net
                    product of such compartmentalization can only be to decrease the ability of the nation effectively
                    to analyze its past, and hence its future, needs.
            Taken together, these three selections explore an essential dilemma which no modern society can fail
                    to ignore for very long: the fact that no nation, no matter how technologically sophisticated it may
                    be, can promote richness and humanity in its people and its public life if its social groups and
                    institutions lose the awareness that ultimately they are part of, not merely a product of, the
                    society in which they exist.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Ralph Janis
         
         
            
               Milligan's Fight Against 
                            Lincoln
                        . By Darwin Kelley. Foreward by L. E. Carlson. (
                        New York
                    : Exposition Press, 1973. Pp. xii, 121. Notes, appendix, index. $5.50.)
            Lambdin P. Milligan, a Hoosier from 
                        Huntington
                    , established a statewide reputation during the Civil War years as an adamant
                    state's righter, a dogmatic antiwar Democrat concerned with the erosion of civil rights,
                    and a vehement critic of Governor Oliver P. Morton and President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . Arrested arbitrarily in the fall of 1864 and charged  with belonging to the Sons of Liberty and being involved in a vague
                    "Northwestern Confederacy" scheme, Milligan and a handful of other Democrats were
                    tried for "treason" by a military commission convened in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After Milligan was found guilty and sentenced to death, the penalty was stayed while
                    his case moved up through the courts, reaching the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in 1866. In Ex parte Milligan, an historic decision,
                    the court declared the use of "martial law" illegal in areas where civil courts
                    were "open" and denounced the application of "military justice"
                    in 1864–1865 as "mere lawless violence."
            In this little book, with a text of approximately eighty-five pages, Kelley attempts to present 
                        Huntington
                    's most famous citizen in a legalistic framework and a sympathetic light. The
                    author, whose doctoral dissertation at Indiana University dealt with the American development
                    (1607–1887) of the separation of powers and the use of this principle in the Constitution
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , sees Milligan's "fight against 
                        Lincoln
                    " solely in legal and state's rights terms.
            Kelley, a resident of 
                        Huntington
                    , relied heavily upon the files of the city's two newspapers, the 
                        Huntington
                    
                    Democrat and the Republican oriented 
                        Huntington
                    
                    Herald, as well as a wide range of secondary sources. The tone is legalistic, an
                    approach one might expect of a political scientist or a constitutional historian. Kelley fails to
                    breathe much life into his rather staid and stolid story. Nor does he set Milligan and midwestern
                    Copperheads in the socioeconomic milieu of their day. He fails to recognize the intensity of western
                    sectionalism, Milligan's devotion to free trade and agrarian interests, and the
                    lawyer's fear that eastern industrialism might make the West its slave and servant. He
                    fails to discredit Brigadier General Henry B. Carrington's politically motivated
                    exposé (the "Carrington Report" of June 28, 1864), and he seems not to
                    see Governor Morton's hand behind the so called "
                        Indianapolis
                     treason trials." He should have devoted several chapters rather than several
                    paragraphs to the proceedings of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     military commission and the noncredibility of the witnesses who testified against
                    Milligan. Kelley would have strengthened his case if he had used the Morton and Carrington materials
                    in the Indiana State Library and the manuscripts pertaining to the trial in  the Records of the Judge Advocate General in the National Archives.
            Yet Kelley deserves credit for beginning the rehabilitation of Milligan, condemned by nationalistic
                    historians who unwittingly endorse "the doctrine of necessity" used to justify the
                    many arbitrary arrests of Civil War days. Kelley also makes a contribution to 
                        Huntington County
                     history with his "labor of love"—a story of "a
                    seminal newspaper battle and Milligan's dedication to law" (p. xi).
            
               Marquette University, 
                            Milwaukee
                        
                Frank L. Klement
         
         
            
               The Development of a Revolutionary Mentality. Library of Congress Symposia on
                    the American Revolution. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1972. Pp. 157. Notes. $3.50.)
            This collection of essays and short critiques carries on the intensive discussion of the
                    revolutionary character of the American experience of the late eighteenth century, a discussion that
                    began in the 1950s. If the opinions expressed here are in any sense representative, historians seem
                    to be in general agreement that ideas were of central importance in the development of the American
                    Revolution. Whether this intellectual movement generated ideas of a formal sort that can be denoted
                    an ideology or merely a loose congeries of attitudes that stimulated discontent with the empire is
                    not yet clear. And there are still historians who believe that the distinctive American social
                    experience is critical for explaining the ideas that eventually became characteristic of the
                    Revolution.
            Henry Steele Commager blithely unites ideas and social experience. In an extended paean to the
                    eighteenth century rationalist mind, he contends that the America of the revolutionary generation
                    realized the Enlightenment that the Old World formulated but could never bring to fruition. The
                    essay is tendentious yet at the same time almost elegiac in its evocation of that age when European
                    intellectuals stood trembling at the brink of some great social consummation. Doubtless many
                    European intellectuals entertained the visions that Commager attributes to them, but it is much less
                    certain  that the revolutionary generation translated them into
                    reality in the New World.
            Moreover, it is difficult to reconcile Commager's conception of eighteenth century ideas,
                    optimistic and fertile of new things, with the description of American attitudes offered by Richard
                    L. Bushman. Instead of hovering on the verge of paradise, the colonists seem cramped and fearful,
                    determined to defend their preserve of painfully acquired liberty against the inroads of corruption.
                    The intense American fear of executive greed seems a good distance from the grand schemes of
                    Enlightenment savants depicted by Commager. But whether American attitudes derived from the colonial
                    experience as claimed by Bushman or from theology and philosophy as proposed in response by Edmund
                    S. Morgan, their source is not easily identified with the continental thinking depicted by Commager.
            Caroline Robbins submits a broad survey of European ideas concerning republicanism in which many of
                    the elements of the American position can be detected: right of resistance, government adapted to
                    the times, constant supervision of government, written constitutions, a limited executive, and
                    separation of powers. American attitudes derived from the Whig tradition which eventually issued in
                    the republicanism of a new political order. Even the loyalists were Whigs according to Mary Beth
                    Norton. And in this fact lay the most difficult problem of all. Why if the loyalists were Whigs did
                    they not support the Revolution? Whiggery, Norton contends, did not offer a certain answer to the
                    problem of the distribution of authority within the empire. For some it dictated loyalty to the
                    settlement of 1688; for others it imposed the need for a new arrangement of life in the New World.
                    Pauline Maier and her critic, Jack P. Greene, attempt to explain how the winning branch of the Whig
                    tradition broke with the empire. Following the argument in her recent book, From
                        Resistance to Revolution, Maier describes the gradual draining of America's
                    loyalty to the king after 1768 and the concomitant consolidation of local authority eventuating in
                    the creation of a new government. In this manner Whig ideas became republican reality. Greene would
                    require greater emphasis on the actualities of American life in order to explain the events of the
                    1770s and 1780s. He wants more  social analysis of the
                    republican order and less lingering on the intellectual content of the Whig tradition.
            This collection proves, if anything, that the issues are not settled and that historians can look
                    forward in the months before the bicentennial to a provocative effort to extend the understanding of
                    the revolutionary generation.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Bernard W. Sheehan
         
         
            
               The War of 1812. By John K. Mahon. (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of Florida Press, 1972. Pp. xii, 476. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            John K. Mahon's latest book is an impressive account of the military events of the War of
                    1812. By judiciously collating secondary studies of the war, published primary materials, and
                    government records in 
                  Ottawa, London
               , and 
                        Washington
                    , Mahon avoids the temptation of many American scholars to present a provincial view of
                    the war and increases the reader's appreciation of complex strategies and tactics. His
                    detailed chronological and topical development may lead some readers, "who feel no need for
                    … details" (p. vii), to skim reports of battlefield casualties or descriptions
                    of a frigate yawing, kedging, or crossing the T. On the other hand, those who have long awaited a
                    thorough military history of the War of 1812 will not be disappointed. Sections dealing with the
                    Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    , the contest for naval supremacy on the Great Lakes, and Indian warfare in the West and
                    South perhaps most dramatically reveal Mahon's mastery of his subject.
            Mahon seeks "to place the operations of the War of 1812 precisely within the politics and
                    culture of the time" (p. viii), but the isolated political passages do not match his
                    battlefield descriptions. The chronological arrangement of the book facilitates the
                    author's movement from one theater of the war to another but forces him to scatter
                    discussions of political considerations throughout the narrative, except for three chapter divisions
                    which generally chart the protagonists' military preparations. Consequently, bitterly
                    contested partisan disputes between Republicans and Federalists that strike at the heart of the 
                        United States
                     war effort, such as reliance on militia or volunteer forces and inadequate provision
                         for a navy, appear regularly but remain underdeveloped.
                    Similarly, although he arbitrates among contemporary and postwar controversies surrounding
                    battlefield choices, Mahon is generally unwilling to make parallel assessments of administrative
                    decisions and decision makers. For example, Mahon confronts Henry Adams' and other
                    historians' evaluations of Major General James Wilkinson's role in the War of 1812
                    but eschews involvement in the equally lively historiographical debate concerning the abilities of
                    Secretary of War John Armstrong.
            A more detailed analysis of the political controversies of the early national period would heighten
                    the author's account of military affairs and reinforce his conclusion that only British
                    preoccupation with European matters saved the Americans from a humiliating defeat. Still,
                    Mahon's goal was not to supersede Henry Adams' synthesis of the military and
                    political events of the war but to write an operational history of the War of 1812 that will be
                    "definitive, for a while at least" (p. vii). This he has done.
            
               Idaho State University, Pocatello Ronald L. Hatzenbuehler
         
         
            
               The Papers of Henry 
                            Clay
                        . Volume 4, Secretary of State, 1825. Edited by James F.
                    Hopkins; associate editor, Mary W. M. Hargreaves; assistant editors, Wayne Cutler and Burton
                    Milward. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1972. Pp. xii, 991. Frontispiece, notes, index. $20.00.)
            The first three volumes of the Clay papers in this excellent edition appeared at regular two year
                    intervals in 1959, 1961, and 1963. These brought the career of "Harry of the West"
                    to the end of 1824 when he had lost his first bid for the presidency yet held it within his power,
                    or so it was thought, to determine which of his more successful rivals would become president. At
                    this breathless moment the editors left readers in suspense for nine years before the fourth volume,
                    covering the single year 1825, was published.
            Volume 4 maintains the high standards of rigorous scholarship which were established by Hopkins and
                    Hargreaves in dealing with the problems presented by 
                        Clay
                    's earlier papers. His full scale plunge into diplomacy in 1825,  however, confronted them with new difficulties, which they have solved
                    admirably. Rather than omit or repeat the official correspondence of the American State Department,
                    the editors of the Clay papers have skillfully summarized most of it, although the letters written
                    by Clay himself are reprinted in full and from the original manuscripts. Among the summarized
                    documents, however, are the consular reports, which have not been published elsewhere and which give
                    fascinating glimpses, from such exotic spots as Maracaibo, Port-au-Prince, Pernambuco, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Tangier, Trieste, Batavia, and the Sandwich Islands, of the burgeoning trade and
                    widening interests of the new republic. Similarly, historians should be grateful for the space given
                    to the ingenious letters of application and recommendation for federal patronage—an
                    astonishing number of which came from Indiana. These are pertinent to the groping for new party
                    affiliations which characterized this chaotic period.
            The first two hundred pages of Volume 4 are largely filled with correspondence regarding 
                        Clay
                    's role in the election of John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams to the presidency by the House of Representatives. No revelations of any
                    "bargain" or "corruption" emerge. Clay announced to his friends,
                    even before 1825, that he had decided to support Adams in spite of their basic differences, and he
                    adhered manfully to his decision in the face of growing evidence that it was unpopular.
            The major interest in this book lies, of course, in 
                        Clay
                    's voluminous correspondence dealing with the fascinating contemporary world of
                    which young America was a part. 
                        Spain
                     had been driven out of all her former American colonies except 
                        Cuba
                     and 
                        Puerto Rico
                    , yet she refused to recognize her losses and still leaned on the Holy Alliance for
                    support. The 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain had recognized the independence of the nine or ten new governments
                    which had thus far surfaced in Latin America but were jealous rivals for trade and influence
                    therein. 
                        Greece
                     was also fighting for independence; Czar Alexander's death sent tremors
                    throughout Europe; and the Bourbon monarchy was tottering again in 
                        France
                    . There were border disputes with Indian tribes and neighbors to north and south; 
                        France
                     refused to consider spoliation claims; and 
                        England
                     kept her West Indian ports closed to American trade.
            On the whole Clay handled these perplexing and delicate  issues
                    surprisingly well. He put in long hours at the office, and he did his homework, seeking expert
                    mercantile opinion on commercial matters which he did not fully understand. He strove to exert
                    American influence positively in hemispheric problems and he maintained a reasonably liberal
                    attitude toward other nations in the face of considerable provocation. It was certainly not his
                    fault that most of these efforts failed to bear fruit.
            Clay had the good fortune to live in simpler times, when the path of national destiny was
                    clearer—and cheaper. It may therefore be appropriate to end this review on a note of
                    nostalgia. 
                        Clay
                    's proposed budget for 1826 may be found on page 814. Estimated expenditures
                    for the entire foreign service of the nation for that year were $336,645.
            
               
                  
                            Bloomington
                        , Ill. Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               Democracy's Railroads: Public Enterprise in Jacksonian 
                            Michigan
                        . By Robert J. Parks. National University Publications Series in American
                    Studies. Edited by James P. Shenton. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N. Y.: Kennikat Press, 1972. Pp. 261. Notes, maps, bibliographic essay, appendices,
                    index. $12.50.)
            Relationships between government and the antebellum economy have long attracted the attention of
                    historians, from Louis Hartz and the Handlins to Carter Goodrich and Harry Scheiber. Robert J.
                    Parks' study of public enterprise in Michigan is a useful addition to this large body of
                    literature.
            Michigan formally joined the internal improvements movement in 1837 when the legislature authorized
                    construction of two canals and three railroads. By the mid-1840s, however, the state was in severe
                    financial difficulty and decided to sell the uncompleted transportation enterprises to private
                    interests. Contemporaries and some historians have concluded that 
                        Michigan
                    's experiment in public enterprise was a serious mistake from beginning to end.
                    Parks disagrees and argues that the internal improvements scheme was the only feasible solution to
                    the state's transportation requirements and, moreover, that it had a reasonable chance of
                    success. Much of his case rests on the Michigan Central 
                    Railroad which, he shows, earned high profits except during the difficult years of the early 1840s.
                    Although the other state projects were not profitable, Parks argues that the Central's
                    return on investment was sufficiently high to challenge Albert Fishlow's conclusion that
                    Michigan railroads of the Jacksonian period were built ahead of demand. As to Robert
                    Fogel's suggestion of a transportation system of canals instead of railroads, Parks
                    concludes that, at least for 
                        Michigan
                    , it "illustrates the limits of absurdity which can be reached by a high level
                    of abstraction and minimal familiarity with the environment being discussed" (p. 232).
            Although Parks defends public enterprise in 
                        Michigan
                    , he also analyzes the constraints that prevented a more successful undertaking. He
                    documents at length Governor Stevens T. Mason's mistakes and possibly criminal negligence
                    in handling financial arrangements for the state's projects. More importantly, Parks shows
                    clearly the extent to which sectional and local rivalry forced dispersion of capital and effort
                    among several enterprises and thus hindered the development of a more concentrated and economically
                    rational approach to the state's transportation needs. This sectional jealously, he
                    concludes, was more important than political ideology or party politics in causing the demise of the
                    system.
            In addition to analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of 
                        Michigan
                    's internal improvements program, Parks also provides useful information on the
                    promotion, planning, financing, construction, and operation of the railroads. He devotes most
                    attention to the Michigan Central Railroad but also includes considerable detail on the Michigan
                    Southern and the Northern. His major sources here are published government documents, especially the
                    annual reports of the Board of Internal Improvements.
            
               
                        Michigan
                    's experience with public enterprise was similar to that of other midwestern
                    states, and Parks succeeds well in relating his subject to broad trends in the region and the
                    nation. Historians with a general interest in the antebellum Midwest will undoubtedly find the book
                    informative, although, with the possible exception of the argument regarding the profitability of
                    the Michigan Central, not greatly surprising in its conclusions. Scholars interested specifically in
                    antebellum Michigan are especially fortunate in the quality of work recently available to them; in
                    addition to Ronald P.  Formisano's excellent study of
                    the state's political parties, they can also turn for guidance to Democracy's Railroads.
            
            
               
                  
                            Harvard
                         Graduate School of Business Administration, 
                            Boston
                        
                James H. Madison
         
         
            
               The Politics of Jacksonian Finance. By John M. McFaul. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1972. Pp. xv, 230. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $9.75.)
            The Jacksonian antibank leadership knew what it was doing better than historians have heretofore
                    credited: however politicized and moralistic their attacks in origin and in rhetoric, such leaders
                    as Secretary of the Treasury Levi Woodbury and Martin Van Buren tried to restrain an incorrigibly
                    expansionary credit system in ways that made sense (within the limits of their hostility to central
                    banking institutions). This is the original contribution of McFaul's clear and quiet
                    argument, matured (like James Roger Sharp's The Jacksonians versus the
                    Banks) from a dissertation begun in Charles Sellers' seminar at the University of
                            
                  California, Berkeley
               . Jacksonian, like Whig and Calhounite, leaders did grasp the
                    fundamental point that deposits as well as notes were means of monetary expansion and were
                    simultaneously liabilities vulnerable to disastrous contractions. If they were unable to maintain a
                    consistent and effective policy, it was not so much from lack of intellectual grasp or from ideology
                    (although this was important) as because they could not surmount the intense competitiveness and
                    fragmentation of political and business life.
            McFaul surveys, in sequence, historiography; the subordination of competition to self preservation in
                    relations between the state banks and the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    ; the Jacksonian predilection for state action; the uses of the pet banking system, most
                    interestingly as a lever to control the banking system; and the disintegration of Jacksonian control
                    under partisan and business assault. Although McFaul is sometimes critical of Bray 
                        Hammond
                    's "entrepreneurial" thesis and of what this reviewer has
                    called the fragmentation of American economic and political life as overall explanations of the era,
                    the net effect of his argument is to leave them intact and indeed to support them.
            
            McFaul's emphases are not entirely what this reviewer's would be. The Calhounite
                    position, for example, is hardly examined, although on its face it would seem to require the kind of
                    analysis William Freehling applied to the nullification crisis of this period. Most striking is the
                    "Conclusion," in which McFaul emphasizes the moralistic, nostalgic, and paranoid
                    elements in the politics of the era, citing such interpreters as Richard Hofstadter, Marvin Meyers,
                    David Brion Davis, Irwin Unger, Ronald P. Formisano, etc.: "The issue of money in
                    nineteenth century America perpetrated a moral exchange between members of society about the meaning
                    of life. In the Jacksonian era this conflict was politicized and the ensuing political rhetoric
                    became a vital force in itself …" (pp. 213–14). These schools have
                    certainly contributed interesting and important insights to the study of political and economic
                    history, but there is something insidious about treating the factors they describe as major causes
                    rather than as derivative psychological mechanisms: such factors tend to divert the historiography,
                    as they allegedly diverted the political life of the era under discussion, from the
                    "real," basic, causes. But these differences of emphasis should not detract from
                    the value of McFaul's fine study.
            
               Loyola University, 
                            Chicago
                        
                Henry Cohen
         
         
            
               Journey Through a Part of the 
                            United States
                         of North America in the Years 1844 to 1846. By Dr. Albert C. Koch. Translated
                    and edited by Ernst A. Stadler. Travels on the Western Waters. Edited by John
                    Francis McDermott. (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1972. Pp. xxxv, 177.
                    Illustrations, sources consulted, notes, index. $12.50.)
            This book is an account of a journey made by Albert Koch, a 
                        German
                     immigrant who came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1827 but who went back to Europe several times for business and family reasons. Upon
                    his return from a European trip made in 1844, Koch traveled to various places in the eastern 
                        United States
                     and in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys. Much of his voyaging was done by way of
                    American canals and rivers, and he sought to give his 
                        German
                     readers (this is the first English translation) an idea of the American  landscape. His remarks tell about the joys and trials of getting from
                    place to place in an almost entirely pre-railroad 
                        United States
                    .
            Koch's travelogue recounts most interestingly the often told stories about storms at sea,
                    flooding rivers, crowded canal boats, racing steamboats, lurching stage coaches, and primitive inns.
                    But its most important contribution is to the history of geology and paleontology in the 
                        United States
                    . Dr. Koch (he called himself such as became a learned man of science in the nineteenth
                    century, but there is no evidence that he ever earned a degree from any institution) was a pioneer
                    in these fields, becoming involved in them because of his occupation as a museum owner in
                            
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               . His museum contained natural history objects, live animals,
                    curiosities, and such entertaining features, common to similar enterprises in other cities of the
                    time, as wax figures of notables and a scary reproduction of the fires of the infernal regions.
            Koch's interest in natural history probably grew out of his 
                        German
                     education, which put much emphasis on the study of this subject. The museum provided
                    Koch with a livelihood while he followed his hobby of searching for fossils and other petrifactions.
                    Fossil animal bones which he excavated in the valley of the Osage River in 
                        Benton County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , proved to be the skeleton of an "astounding creature … known
                    variously as the Missourium, Missouri Leviathan, or the Mastodon
                        giganteus and the Mastodon Americanus" (p. xxv). Koch displayed
                    these bones, the similarity of which to those of the living elephant were immediately recognized, in
                    his museum and in cities in the 
                        United States
                     and Europe. Eventually the skeleton was sold to the British Museum. While
                    Koch's reconstruction of the Missourium was later proved to be
                    inaccurate, it was a very good first try and attracted the attention of scientists throughout the
                    western world.
            The story of a fossil "sea serpent" which Koch later unearthed in Alabama is told
                    in the present book, and it provides a good example of the way an early paleontologist worked.
                    Sometimes considered to be a charlatan, Koch's reputation is redeemed in this book, and he
                    is given his rightful place as a dedicated scientific worker.
            The translator, Ernst A. Stadler, is a businessman in 
                    
                        St. Louis
                     rather than an academician. Nevertheless, the translation is smooth, and the narrative
                    very pleasurable to read. Stadler's work in tracking down the story of Koch's life
                    and estimating his scientific significance is painstakingly done and gives more information about
                    Koch than was previously available. McDermott, who has had a long interest in Koch, is to be
                    commended for choosing this work for his series. The book is handsomely printed and contains a
                    number of illustrations of the places visited by Koch on his travels.
            
               MacMurray College, 
                            Jacksonville
                        , Ill. Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
            
               Blacks on John 
                            Brown
                        . Edited by Benjamin Quarles. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xv, 164. Illustration, notes, bibliographical
                    note, index. $6.95.)
            John 
                        Brown
                    , a fanatic or a saint? Traditionally, white America has inclined toward the former. For
                    example, Allan Nevins in his Ordeal of the Union calls 
                        Brown
                     a monomaniac for his obsession over slavery. The debate continues. With this
                    publication Editor Benjamin Quarles has compiled a series of twenty-seven black editorials,
                    speeches, letters, articles, and poems written from 
                        Brown
                    's death to the present. He has attempted to illustrate that blacks have
                    consistently held 
                        Brown
                     in a favorable light. Quarles aims to "provide a first hand view of this image
                    making John 
                        Brown
                     of the blacks" (p. xv).
            The book is divided into portions: Black Seed (1858–1861); In Flower
                    (1870–1925); and Hardy Perennial (1925–1972). Each begins with introductory
                    remarks. Quarles selects from Frederick Douglass, Thomas 
                        Hamilton
                    , W. E. B. DuBois, Lerone Bennett, Jr., Langston Hughes, and others. Almost without
                    exception 
                        Brown
                     is accorded reverence and is seen as a source of inspiration. Lerone Bennett, Jr., sees
                    him as "a Negro" (p. 140) as well as a hope for the America that was and could be
                    again. In the mind of black America, society—not 
                        Brown
                    —was deranged.
            
               Blacks on John 
                            Brown
                        
                has some faults. For one thing it suffers from a bibliographical note at the
                    end which is too short to be of much use. The book also purports to inform the reader about
                    black-white relations in American history.  This is not strictly
                    true for what develops from the book concerning the subject is already well known and documented.
                    Quarles also fails to indicate whether there has been any black criticism of 
                        Brown
                    .
            Nevertheless, while the book presents only one view of its subject, anyone wishing to make a balanced
                    assessment of 
                        Brown
                    's place in history will have to consult this volume. It is a valuable
                    supplement to the revival of interest in 
                        Brown
                     which has been underway since Stephen B. Oates' To Purge This
                        Land With Blood in 1970. Little attention has been paid to what blacks thought of 
                        Brown
                    . It should be clear from the range of black opinion offered here that whatever white
                    America chose to think of 
                        Brown
                    , black America knew he was no madman, but a brother, a symbol of what white America
                    should have been.
            
               University of 
                     Arizona, Tucson
                  
                Lee Scott Theisen
         
         
            
               Labor and Socialism in America: The Gompers Era. By William M. Dick. National
                    University Publication Series in American Studies. Edited by James P. Shenton. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N. Y.: Kennikat Press, 1972. Pp. 211. Notes, bibliography, index. $10.95.)
            The author of this book is presumably a Briton, with academic connections to the Universities of
                    Edinburgh, 
                        Oregon
                    , and 
                        Toronto
                    ; he now teaches at Scarborough College in 
                  Toronto, Ontario, Canada
               . It was his purpose to determine whether the
                    "cliché" that the American trade union movement was "a
                    reflection of the dominant middle class psyche of the nation" actually characterized the
                    "era of Samuel Gompers" (p. 183). In his examination he has used the outline of
                    the history of the American Federation of Labor between 1886 and 1924 as it revolved around Gompers
                    and which has been provided American historians by John R. Commons, Selig Perlman, Philip Taft, and
                    their associates and students. Within this outline Dick has sought to find the influence of
                    socialism—of whatever persuasion—upon the AFL and particularly upon Gompers.
                    He has also made some comparisons with British trade union experiences.
            Not surprisingly, since Gompers himself boasted of it, Dick has found that Gompers had a highly
                    sophisticated  knowledge of socialism and of its importance and
                    methodology in western nations. But the author also suggests strongly and develops the idea cogently
                    that the AFL and organized labor, as reflected in the public statements of Gompers, of other
                    leaders, and of the labor press, did not reveal the "business union" mentality nor
                    the "pressure group" unionism of the present day. Instead, these statements reveal
                    that organized labor constituted a class movement with broad social aims—which the author
                    appears to equate with socialism. They also indicate an appreciation of the value of
                    "revisionist socialism"—a European term which Americans might translate
                    freely into "political party action to secure legislation," a type of action of
                    which the AFL disapproved.
            All this makes an interesting intellectual exercise for students of American labor history and of the
                    Progressive era. At the same time this reviewer is not convinced by the author's reasoning.
                    Terms such as "class movements" and "broad social aims" have
                    been a part of the American political—and labor—dialect since the
                    Workingmen's Platform was developed in the 1820s; their use reveals no sympathy with
                    socialism. Moreover, nothing in Gompers' utterances concerning class movements and broad
                    social aims reveals sympathy for socialism. Gompers was a labor politician with all the chameleon
                    qualities of most politicians. His statements were made to fit his audiences and ranged from
                    sympathy for mass movements to sympathy for corporation executives. Favorable responses to
                    Gompers' statements from a few socialist leaders were also political; they were intended to
                    keep relations with the AFL and workingmen on a friendly basis. Gompers cannot be measured properly
                    by his statements; he must be measured by his deeds.
            
               Temple University, 
                            Philadelphia
                        
                Joseph G. Rayback
         
         
            
               Business in American Life: A History. By Thomas C. Cochran. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1972. Pp. x, 402. Notes, bibliographical guide, index.
                    $12.50.)
            In this path breaking volume Thomas Cochran set himself a gigantic task. In his provocative
                    introduction he notes that general histories of the 
                        United States
                     have traditionally  been organized around politics,
                    despite the acknowledgement of many of the most perceptive observers of American life that in the 
                        United States
                     business dwarfs all other interests or occupations. Cochran thus decided to abandon
                    tradition and write a synthesis of American history, from 
                        Jamestown
                     to the present, with business as the central focus.
            Cochran builds much of the analytical framework for his business history from role theory, a concept
                    developed by sociologists. Each person has a "social role," that is, he behaves in
                    ways "normal and conventional" to his own society. Society, particularly that part
                    of it with which a person must deal, serves as an individual's "role
                    set." Changes can come about in a social role when a single person has a new idea and can
                    convince his role set to accept it, or a person's role set can develop new requirements and
                    institute new procedures. A new environment (the transfer of a society from a crowded, settled area
                    to a wilderness), an alteration of the resource base, or changing technology can stimulate new
                    patterns of behavior. In applying role theory to business, Cochran focuses "on how existing
                    business roles were altered by new social environments and innovations and how business institutions
                    reacted upon American society" (p. 3).
            Cochran finds colonial America dominated by sedentary merchants, whom he views as essentially
                    conservative men who took their ideals from the English example. While the wilderness may have
                    created more opportunity, the long term forces of population growth tended to make settled American
                    regions become more like 
                        England
                     as time progressed. Cochran sees at least three major role changing forces dominating
                    the years from 1775 to 1915: the continuing influence of the West with its vacant lands and vast
                    resources; new technology; and most of all the rise of large scale industry. In the industrial age
                    the merchant lost his preeminence to new types of businessmen concerned with specialities such as
                    production, sales, and finance. For these men there were no clear cut traditional roles; hence,
                    innovation became the rule. In the period from 1915 to 1970 business ceased to be so much the
                    innovator and found itself forced to adjust to new factors such as Big Government and Big Labor.
            Cochran's book has many of the strengths and weaknesses inherent in a broad survey. Because
                    he covers all of American history in less than 400 pages, much of his discussion  is of a general nature with little space available to probe particular
                    points in great depth. On the other hand some of the chapters, especially those dealing with the
                    colonial merchants, state promotion of business enterprise, business and education, and the business
                    bar and bench are masterful summaries. The book's only major fault is Cochran's
                    deliberate decision to separate his theoretical framework from the actual material dealing with
                    business. His introduction is provocative and fascinating; the book would have been much more
                    exciting had his theory been made explicit in each of his chapters. Cochran's book should
                    be ideal as an assignment in courses in business and economic history, as well as a splendid
                    introduction to the subject for the general reader.
            
               University of 
                     Delaware, Newark
                  
                Stephen Salsbury
         
         
            
               The Urban Wilderness: A History of the American City. By Sam Bass Warner, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Row, Publishers, 1972. Pp. xvii, 303. Notes, illustrations, figures,
                    bibliographic guide, index. $12.50.)
            In few subjects today has the American electorate greater interest coupled with less knowledge than
                    in the field of urban problems. Demands for action, often based more or less upon ignorance of the
                    city's past, echo and reecho in Congress and the press, on radio and television. Most
                    historians would probably agree that a major weakness has been implicit in the sadly neglected store
                    of knowledge found in urban history.
            It is Warner's stated intention not to present much new factual information, but rather to
                    attempt a "broad canvass of American urban history" (p. xv), constructed from
                    known materials. In consequence, he has based his study heavily upon secondary sources, published
                    collections of documents, and memoirs, largely without further investigation of the extremely
                    extensive primary sources on the subject. The quality of his treatment of a given aspect of the
                    urban past thus varies directly with the degree to which it has previously been investigated by
                    other scholars, with the result that the various chapters of the work are correspondingly uneven.
            The first two chapters establish the author's philosophic position as he testifies that, to
                    him, the giant cities of America are "vast incomprehensible places" (p. 3).
                    Moreover, he holds  that "the inherent nature of our
                    capitalistic system has bestowed differential and cumulative rewards so that the successful exercise
                    a disproportionate control over the city and the lives of its residents. Consequently, the strong
                    prey on the weak, and to him that has shall be given" (p. 5). The work successively deals
                    with the demise of New 
                        England
                     folk planning, the tradition of land management, the development of urban economy as
                    illustrated by the cases of 
                        New York
                     from 1820 to 1870, 
                        Chicago
                     from 1870 to 1920, and 
                        Los Angeles
                     from 1920 to the present, and the antecedents of urban class, race, and religion. The
                    last three chapters attempt to analyze the reasons for past failures in coping with the urban
                    environment, pointing out the futility of pouring more money into hopeless old institutions, and
                    offer some choices for the urban environment of the future. In this latter regard, several of
                    Warner's statements appear to be one sided and narrow: "Class and racial
                    segregation and class, racial, and sexual discrimination lie at the root of almost all the
                    pathologies of the current city. As manifestations of our nation's deepest feelings, of our
                    long racist, capitalist, and sexist traditions, such behavior is both the most grievous, and the
                    most difficult of all the burdens which the past has fastened upon the present. The essence of our
                    urban history has been rapid growth and pervasive change working within the confines of ceaseless
                    exploitation of white over black, rich over poor, men over women" (p. 268). Many might take
                    issue with such oversimplification of cause and effect.
            Warner's solutions include: the government should become a major builder of houses to
                    provide for the third of the population with the lowest income; the government should enter into the
                    metropolitan real estate business on a massive level in order to harvest speculative profits and
                    coordinate public investments; the government should inaugurate a policy of full employment with a
                    living wage for all; finally the merits of a highly progressive tax structure are extolled. In
                    short, Warner believes: "To the extent that the American city is now rotten it is rotten at
                    the top, not the bottom" (p. 276). Although some evidence would support these solutions,
                    the categories singled out for reform appear unduly rigid.
            In spite of these criticisms it should be emphasized that the book is a significant pioneering effort
                    in urban history  and urban social science. Warner has obviously
                    read voluminously in the contemporary social scientific literature of city planning, urban
                    geography, and community organization. By this means he demonstrates a constant strengthening of the
                    historical data which he employs. Despite the author's unrestrained political bias, the
                    work will focus attention upon many problems previously neglected, and it will take its place in the
                    vanguard of the growing literature concerning urban historical causation.
            
               University of Southern 
                            Mississippi
                        , Hattiesburg Philip A. Kalisch
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Historic Preservation: Regional Center Plan, Work Paper III, Job 770. (
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Marion County
                    : Department of Metropolitan Development, Division of Planning and Zoning, 1972. Pp. 71.
                    Map, illustrations, appendix. Paperbound, $3.00.) This item is a most attractive work
                    paper, handbook, and guide regarding historic preservation efforts within 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    . Prepared by the Department of Metropolitan Development, Division of Planning and
                    Zoning, for 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    , it illustrates and offers commentary about thirty structures and sites considered to
                    have historic importance, including some of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' best known landmarks. This booklet may be purchased from the Department of
                    Metropolitan Development, Room 2021, City-County Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            
               Forward in the Second Century of MacMurray College: A History of 125 Years. By
                    Walter B. Hendrickson. ([
                        Jacksonville
                    , Ill.]: MacMurray College, 1972. Pp. 93. Illustrations. Paperbound, $3.25.)
                    Professor Hendrickson gives a concise account of the initial century and a quarter of the history of
                    MacMurray College, 
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               . His emphasis, however, is upon the
                    last quarter century, a period during which the author has himself been a leading participant in the
                    development of the college. Hendrickson has packed much information into his account, which is based
                    upon college records and earlier histories as well as upon his own recollections. This booklet may
                    be purchased from the MacMurray College Bookstore, 
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               
                62650.
         
      
   
