
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 55, Issue 4, pages 323-441. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:55+issue:4+year:1959&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        Spencer
                     Records' Memoir of the Ohio Valley Frontier, 1766–1795
            
                    Contributed by Naomi Mullendore Hougham
                    *
                
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            The narrative which follows is principally a memoir of frontier life in western Pennsylvania and the
                    Licking Valley of 
                        Kentucky
                    . A son of Josiah Records and Susanna Tully Records, 
                        Spencer
                     Records was born December 11, 1762, in 
                        Sussex County
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , of English ancestry. Three years later the family left Delaware and, after a brief
                    sojourn near 
                  Hagerstown, Maryland
               , followed Braddock's Trail into western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , settling in 1766 near Dunbar's Creek at the foot of 
                        Laurel
                     Mountain. The Peace of 
                        Paris
                    , 1763, which registered the decisive triumph of the English over the French for
                    possession of the vast and fertile hinterland west of the Appalachian Mountains, had been concluded
                    only three years earlier. Moreover, settlement in the area selected by the Records family was then
                    illegal under the Proclamation of 1763, but even so western Pennsylvania was at that time the most
                    important beachhead of settlement west of the Appalachian watershed by English colonists.
            Approximately the initial one-fifth of the memoir describes frontier life in western Pennsylvania
                    during the period from 1766–1783, and particularly during the years of the American
                    Revolution, 1775–1783. A main thread throughout the narrative is the story of the
                    continuous struggle for physical survival. Obtaining food, shelter, and clothing adequate for
                    subsistence was essential. Perhaps equally important in the struggle for survival was the costly and
                    almost 
                  
                     * Naomi Mullendore Hougham is a great-great-granddaughter
                            of 
                                Spencer
                             Records. She is a former professor of botany at 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana.
               
                     continuous conflict with the Indians. Fortunately, the early
                    settlers of western Pennsylvania were largely seasoned frontiersmen, quite unlike the tenderfoot
                    English who first settled 
                        Jamestown
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                     about a century and a half earlier. Hence the settlers of western Pennsylvania not only
                    survived harsh conditions and costly Indian conflict, but they soon extended their settlements and
                    improved their situation. During their struggles with the wilderness and with the Indians, however,
                    the frontiersmen in some respects lived more like Indians themselves than is commonly realized. The
                    fact that settlers sometimes mistook other settlers for Indians, as indicated in the Records
                    narrative, was more than accidental.
            In 1783, when 
                        Spencer
                     Records became twenty-one years of age, his family migrated to the Licking Valley of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The remainder and bulk of the narrative is largely concerned with frontier beginnings
                    and early developments in the Licking Valley during the ensuing decade. Life in Kentucky was much
                    the same as it had been in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —the same harsh struggle for food, shelter, and clothing, as well as
                    continued conflict with the Indians. The residents of this valley remained vulnerable to Indian
                    attack from north of the 
                        Ohio
                    —the "Indian side" of the river, as 
                        Spencer
                     Records termed it—from the end of the Revolution almost until 1794 when
                    General Anthony Wayne defeated the Indians at Fallen Timbers in northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    .
            This memoir correctly and vividly portrays the early Ohio Valley frontiersmen as being woodsmen and
                    hunters as well as farmers and illustrates their economic self-sufficiency. It also suggests that
                    frontier experiences were very similar in the various parts of the Ohio Valley during the years
                    described. Moreover, the Records narrative offers excellent examples which point out the importance
                    of the Ohio River in directing and influencing early settlement west of the
                    Appalachians. For instance, whether Records lived in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Licking Valley of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Scioto Valley or near the Ohio River in 
                        Ohio
                    , or in 
                        Bartholomew County
                    , Indiana, he remained a resident of the Ohio Valley. The Ohio
                    River was the principal highway within the region; and even when 
                        Spencer
                     Records took circuitous routes through present-day West Virginia enroute to
                    Pennsylvania to collect a debt for his father, he remained within the Ohio Valley and generally
                    traveled up and down the 
                        Ohio
                    's tributaries  and over their connecting
                    portages and trails. Knowledge of the fact that this narrative is a product of the Ohio Valley
                    frontier is very helpful in locating the various residences and trips of 
                        Spencer
                     Records.
            Although political developments were important in Kentucky during the 1780's and the early
                    1790's, Records almost completely ignores them. Kentucky became a state in 1792, he
                    correctly observes, but he adds nothing to indicate that it had been a county of 
                        Virginia
                    , nothing of the various conventions leading to statehood, and nothing of the so-called
                    Spanish Conspiracy. Neither are the problems of the navigation of the Mississippi and Spanish
                    control of its exit mentioned.
            
               
                        Spencer
                     Records was about eighty years of age when his memoir was composed, apparently in 1842.
                    The events and incidents which he relates had nearly all occurred fifty to seventy years earlier.
                    Meanwhile, he had lived in Kentucky while it continued to gain in population and resources during
                    the last half of the 1790's; then he had lived for two decades in 
                        Ohio
                     (1801–1821); thereafter he had resided near 
                        Columbus
                     in 
                        Bartholomew County
                    , Indiana, for two more decades. Family correspondence and tradition indicate that the
                    narrative was rewritten and copied by a neighbor, James Clarke, who polished its grammar and form.
                    During the 1860's the memoir was acquired by Lyman C. Draper, and it is now included in the
                    Draper Collection of the State Historical Society of 
                  Wisconsin, Madison
               , and is published
                    here with the society's permission. A different and less complete version appeared in the
                        Indiana Magazine of History, XV (September, 1919), 201–232.
            About two-thirds of the way through his memoir, 
                        Spencer
                     Records mentions his marriage to Elizabeth Ellrod in Kentucky in 1790; and he completes
                    the vital statistics of his family with evident pride near the end of the narrative. Here and
                    elsewhere Records gives testimony to his being of the Regular Baptist persuasion. Several episodes
                    in his story illustrate his literal predestinarian views.
            In editing this memoir the editor was impressed by the fact that historical information which Records
                    recounts generally concurs with the basic facts as related by scholars and authors who are cited in
                    the footnotes. This agreement may indicate a marvelous memory for detail on the part of  Records, the octogenarian; it may mean that part or all of the memoir
                    was composed earlier than 1842, or that Records may have had the assistance of other persons in
                    writing his recollections. In any case, the memoir is an important and informative document
                    regarding frontier beginnings in the Ohio Valley during and immediately following the American
                    Revolution.
            
                    A Brief Narrative1 giving an account of the time and place of
                        the birth of 
                            Spencer
                         Records his movings and settlements: with incidents that occurred relative to the
                        wars with the Indians. With a brief account of his father Josiah Records: written by himself the
                        said 
                            Spencer
                         Records.
                
            
               
                  1 In editing the document that begins with this line, original spelling,
                        capitalization, and paragraphing have been reproduced. Letters were difficult to distinguish in
                        some instances but were transcribed according to the writer's probable intent. Original
                        punctuation has also been retained except in a few cases where additions were made for the sake
                        of clarity. Periods have been inserted wherever their addition was unmistakably
                        indicated—after abbreviations and at the ends of paragraphs. Commas were used to
                        separate a series of words if the writer of the manuscript omitted them. Throughout the
                        document, proper nouns were often, but not always, underlined. The editor has chosen to delete
                        this underscoring rather than to clutter the page with italics which have no significance that
                        can be determined. Bracketed words, dates, and phrases in the text of the memoir have been added
                        by the editor except for those bracketed dates marked by a dagger. The
                        manuscript contains these dates in brackets, written by some unknown person. The two footnotes
                        that appear in the manuscript have been retained; evidently someone other than the original
                        penman added them and marked their location by asterisks. With the minor exceptions already
                        noted and insofar as the mechanics of printing permit, the narrative which follows is a faithful
                        reproduction of the original—minus its repetitive table of contents. The original 
                            Spencer
                         Records narrative is in the Kentucky Papers, Draper Manuscripts, State Historical
                        Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 23CC. Mrs. Hougham indicates that some of Records' personal papers, such
                        as deeds and military orders and commissions, are in the possession of a descendant, Charles L.
                        Rueff, of 
                            Johnson County
                        , Indiana,
            
            
            Introductory.
            I have written the following narrative, partly for my own satisfaction and amusement, and partly for
                    the information of my children, as by it they may become acquainted with some things, they would
                    otherwise be ignorant of.
            I have written it briefly, stating every thing in as few words as possible; which will take less
                    writing and reading, and will probably be better understood.
            October 8th 1842—
                        Spencer
                     Records.
            A narrative of Captain 
                        Spencer
                     Records
            
               
                        Spencer
                     Records son of Josiah Records and Susanna Tully his wife, was born on the 11th day of
                    December 1762 in 
                        Sussex County
                    , State of 
                        Delaware
                    . My father and mother were both descendants of English ancestors.—
            I shall in the first place, give a brief account of my father Josiah Records, which will serve as an
                    introduction to my own. Josiah Records son of John Records and Ann Callaway his wife, was born on
                    the first day of May old style2 in the year 1741 in 
                        Sussex County
                    , State of 
                        Delaware
                    . In 1765 my father with his family, his mother, sister Susanna and his two
                    brother-in-laws, James Quoturmos and James Finch with others, embarked on board of a sloop in the
                    Nanticoke river, descended it to its mouth in the Chesapeake Bay, thence to the mouth of the
                    Potomac, and up that river to 
                        Georgetown
                    , and having landed there, proceeded on to Antetom creek near Hagarstown, and there
                    wintered.
            In the spring of 1766 my father and his two brother-in-laws crossed the Alleghany mountains, and took
                    up land near the foot of 
                        Laurel
                     Hill, and near Dunbar's creek, so called, from the circumstance of Col.
                    [Thomas] Dunbar having encamped thereon, with the rear of Braddock's army, at the 
                  
                     2 Josiah Records was born May 12, 1741, according to the present-day
                            New Style calendar.
               
                     time of his defeat. Braddock was mortally wounded, taken to
                    that camp, there died, and was buried.3
            
            That country at that time, was known as the Redstone country, and so called from Redstone creek,
                    which running through a part of that country, entered the Monongahela river, twelve miles northwest
                    of where Uniontown now stands, and near where the town of 
                        Brownsville
                     is now built.
            After clearing ground, planting it in corn, and working it, they returned back, and in the fall
                    [1766] moved over the mountains. My father hired Peter Melot with his cart and three horses to move
                    him, and took my uncle Quoturmos' blacksmith tools in the cart, all but the anvil; it was
                    heavy and had to be left.
            They took Braddock's old road. At that time there were not more than ten or twelve families
                    in that settlement,4 a few about the broad ford of Youghagany; some about
                    Redstone old fort, and a few about Fort Pitt; perhaps not more than one hundred in all: however
                    emigrants crossed the mountains rapidly, and settlements were soon extended to a considerable
                    distance in different directions. Perhaps it may not be amiss, to give a short sketch of the manner
                    in which the first settlers of the Redstone lived.5 As they had to pack over the
                    mountains on horse-back, they could carry but little more than their clothing, beds &
                    cooking utensils. As deer, bear, and turkies were plenty, they were supplied with meat by hunting;
                    their cloth was homemade, some dressed deerskins; many yards of linen were made of nettles: their
                    bread was made by pounding corn in a hommony bloc[k]. Coffee 
                  
                     3 General Edward Braddock's defeat in battle against the
                            French and Indians in 1755, as he neared the forks of the Ohio where 
                                Pittsburgh
                             now stands, was a major disaster for the English and Colonials during the Last
                            French and Indian War, 1754–1763. Braddock, fatally wounded in the battle, died
                            several days later as his forces retreated eastward over the road they had recently opened
                            on their westward march. This road, known as Braddock's Road, was opened from
                                    
                        Cumberland, Maryland
                     , to within sight of the forks of the 
                                Ohio
                            .
                  
                     4 Presumably the settlement near Dunbar Creek, close to the foot of 
                                Laurel
                             Mountain, where the Records family settled.
                  
                     5 For information on settlement and frontier life in western 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , see pertinent chapters in Solon J. Buck and Elizabeth H. Buck, The Planting of Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1989). A concise account of the beginning and early growth of settlements in
                            the area is in Ray Allen Billington, Westward Expansion: A History of the
                                American Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1949). 156–157. As indicated in Billington, the area in which the
                            Records family settled, was west of the Proclamation Line of 1763 and not legally open to
                            settlement in 1766.
               
                     and tea were not used. At that time there were no store goods
                    west of 
                        Laurel
                     hill; all articles they could not make themselves, were packed over the mountains from
                    Hagarstown, a distance of 130 miles. Some persons made a business of buying bear and deer skins,
                    ginseng &c. packing them to Hagarstown, and fetching such articles as were needed. My father
                    being a good hunter, and killing a great many deer and bears, made a trip to Hagarstown every winter
                    after hunting time, and got such articles as he stood in need of.
            The people there, at that time, lived happier, and better contented, than the people do there at this
                    time, with all thei[r] luxuries, fine dress, pride, vanity, pomp and show.
            About the year 1768, Philip Shoot built a tub-mill on Dunbar's creek. My father did the
                    mill-wright work, and my Uncle Quoturmos did the black-smith work. It was built on a very small
                    scale, and very imperfectly, for want of tools. I remember, that my uncle made use of the pole of an
                    axe for an anvil. This mill would grind fifteen bushels of grain in a day, which being sufficient
                    for that neighborhood was a great relief—This was the first mill built west of 
                        Laurel
                     Hill. About two years afterwards, Henry Season built a mill on Redstone creek, and some
                    time after, laid off a town that went by the name of Beas-on-town, but now Union-town the capital of 
                        Fayette County
                    
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    .6
            
            1772. Six years of happy days had passed away, my father having sold his plantation, bought land
                    about fourteen miles from Fort Pitt, on the north fork of Robertson's run.
            In the year 1774 the Indians broke out [Dunmore's War], at that time the whites were the
                    aggressors, caused chiefly by the murder of Bald Eagle, a Delaware chief, by some villains on the 
                        Ohio
                    , while he was in his canoe; and the murder of the family of Logan, the celebrated Mingo
                    chief, by captain Michael Cresap. We all had to fortify ourselves. Dunmore, governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , marched an army into the Indian Country, and as the Indians had not done much
                    mischief, soon returned home, after patching up a kind of 
                  
                     6 According to Buck and Buck, The Planting of
                                Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 150, 410, Henry Beeson, a 
                                Quaker
                            , settled at Uniontown about 1767, and soon other Quakers joined him in the
                            vicinity of Uniontown and 
                                Brownsville
                            . Beeson was a blacksmith and miller.
               
                     peace with them, which was however of short duration.7 In the interval of peace during the year 1776, my father built a mill on
                    Raccoon creek, on land he had previously purchased ten miles northwest from home, and hired Isaac
                    Felty to to keep her that winter.
            In the spring of 1777, he moved to the mill; during the summer the Indians recommenced hostilities. A
                    few families forted at the mill. The Indians fired on John Stallions, shooting his mare through, and
                    himself through the arm. She ran with him about one mile to Dalow's fort, and fell dead.
                    This was all the mischief done near us, but the frontiers in other parts suffered more, of which I
                    can not give any account at this time. In the fall my father returned home, and as the Indians lived
                    at some distance, and the winters were cold, we were not troubled with them during that season, so
                    that we all lived at home in safety.
            However in the spring of 1778 all forted again, my father forted at McDonalds fort, two and a half
                    miles from home. During the summer my father obtained a guard of men, to be stationed at his mill;
                    and men would go in companies armed, and get grinding done. When winter set in, the guard left the
                    mill, but the miller stayed till the first of March, and then moved off.
            1779. This winter my father was elected Captain, and received his commission from the governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , which at that time claimed jurisdiction over all that part of Pennsylvania laying west
                    of 
                        Laurel
                    -hill, which claim they held until the year 1782.8
            
            Sometime in March [1779?], the Indians fell on a camp of sugar makers, and killed
                    five young men, and took five 
                  
                     7 Dunmore's War, 1774, involved rivalry between Pennsylvania
                            and 
                                Virginia
                            , both of which claimed the forks of the 
                                Ohio
                            , as well as conflict between the Indians and the advancing English colonists.
                            This war immediately preceded the American Revolution, which began in 1775, and perhaps
                            helped delay further costly Indian warfare in the upper Ohio Valley until 1777. For a
                            general discussion of Dunmore's War and its impact on western 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , see Buck and Buck, The Planting of Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 156–170, 175–184, and R#2 C. Downes, Council Fires on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                : A Narrative of Indian Affairs in the Upper Ohio Valley until 1795 (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1940), 152–178.
                  
                     8 Buck and Buck, The Planting of Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 170, state that it was not until 1782 that Pennsylvania and Virginia
                            agreed upon a temporary boundary westward to the Ohio River. Shortly
                            thereafter commissioners from the two states ran the actual boundary.
               
                     young women and a boy prisoners. This camp was on Raccoon
                    creek, two miles below my father's mill: there was another camp on the creek, one mile
                    below that. My cousin John Finch and myself were at the mill during the time the murder was
                    committed, having been sent there by my father on an errand, and being detained there a day or two
                    in consequence of a rise in the waters of the creek. The Indians had discovered the camp, and laying
                    in ambush all night; fell on them about daylight with their tomahawks. This we knew to be the case,
                    as the bodies all lay in and near the camp, except one, who had run about fifty yards, and was there
                    tomahawked and scalped. Two of the young men were of the name of Devers, two named Turner, and one
                    Fulks. One of the Devers' lay in the camp, with his shoes on slip-shod. He was stabbed in
                    the left side, and was laying on his right side, with his fingers and thumb, s[t]anding on end over
                    the wound. The creek falling we returned home.
            The same morning, a man from the lower camp, went to theirs, to borrow a gimblet, to tap sugar trees,
                    and found the men killed, and the women and boy gone. He gave the alarm to their friends, at the
                    settlement ten miles off. The next day, we went to bury them. Ephraim Ralph, a cousin of my
                    father's, who was a Lieutenant in the 
                        United States
                    ' service in Captain Laughery's company; was then at home on a visit,
                    and went with us. When a grave was dug, the men being backward to lay them in it; Ralph told them
                    not to hold back, for they knew not how soon they might be in the same situation themselves. So
                    setting them the example, they were all laid in one grave and buried, and then we returned home.
            These were the first I had seen, that had been killed by the Indians, and a dreadful sight it was to
                    me, the more so, as some of them had been but a short time before, my schoolmates. The grief and
                    lamentation of poor old William Turner, is still fresh in my remembrance, lamenting the loss of his
                    children; his two sons George and William, that lay there tomahawked and scalped; and his beloved
                    daughter Betsey, a beautiful girl of fourteen years of age, taken captive by the cruel savages; not
                    knowing what she had suffered, or might hereafter suffer. His grief can be better conceived by
                    tender parents than described.
            
            In the year 1782 [1781],†9 as Capt. Laughery was descending the Ohio
                    in a boat with his company, in order to join General [George Rogers] Clark; he landed at the mouth
                    of a creek, below the mouth of the Big Miami; he was there attacked by the Indians, and defeated.
                    Laughery and Ralph were both killed. From which circumstance, the creek took the name of Laughery
                    which it still bears.10
            
            In the spring of this year, some forted, others lived four or five families together: four families
                    lived with my father. About the first of August, Alexander McCandless, who lived a mile and a half
                    from my father's, in company with a few families; hdd [had] occasion to go for Mrs. Meek,
                    an old lady, about fifty years of age, who lived about six miles off, where a few families were
                    gathered. After staying the time required, he set off home with her: about one mile from her house,
                    they were fired on by five or six Indians, from behind a log, situated about twenty yards from the
                    path. The shots missing both them and their horses, McCandless turned round, took the path home, and
                    was soon out of danger. They then sprung towards the old lady, one of them threw his tomahawk, and
                    stuck it in a tree near her head: she however stuck to her saddle, and her horse soon carried her
                    safe home.
            A few days afterwards, Alexander McNeely and his brother James, both bachelors, who had gathered with
                    others at Robert Shirers', went home by themselves to work: their dog beginning to bark in
                    a hazel thicket, they got alarmed, thinking that there were Indians there, and so returned to
                    Shirer's. Alexander got six men to go with him, leaving his brother James there, who was
                    about sixty years of age. The 
                  
                     9As indicated in the editorial statement, note 1, bracketed additions
                            marked by a dagger are in the original manuscript and are not the editor's
                            interpolations.
                  
                     10 The Captain Laughery referred to in this paragraph and on p. 331 is
                            no doubt Colonel Archibald Lochry who, while in command of troops on their
                            way to assist General George Rogers Clark in his proposed capture of 
                                Detroit
                            , was defeated by a combination of Indians, Canadians, and English below the
                            junction of Laughery Creek with the Ohio River in the present 
                                Dearborn County
                            , Indiana, August, 1781. See John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 69, and Downes, Council Fires on the Upper
                            
                                Ohio
                            , 266–270. According to Downes (p. 270), "Every soldier in
                            Lochry's band of almost one hundred either was captured or died a wretched death at
                            the hands of Brant and his ninety warriors, and Lochry himself was killed."
                            Laughery Creek still bears the same name and has the same spelling as 
                                Spencer
                             Records used; presumably its name is a corruption of Lochry.
                  
               
                     Indians seeing them go off, followed them, and waylaid the
                    path, behind a large log. When they came opposite them, they fired on them, killing McNeely and four
                    others, one made his escape by running. Shirer was not killed, but in attempting to leap a muddy
                    branch, he being old, and not able to reach the bank, fell in, and was taken prisoner.
            26th [?] Sept. 1781—Bates Collier killed.11
            
            Shortly after that, two men that lived at my fathers, set off in the evening to hunt, taking a path
                    that led to a deserted plantation. They had not proceeded more than half a mile, before they were
                    fired on by Indians, and both killed. My father hearing the report of the guns; in company with
                    another person, took the path and ran, but soon returned, having found them both killed and scalped.
                    Their names were, Bates Collier, and Daniel Reardon. Upon these events, all either forted or moved
                    off, my father moving eight miles. When winter set in, all returned home.
            After the death of Alexander McNeely, his brother James, being heir to his plantation and other
                    property, went there and lived by himself. One very cold morning, the snow being about half leg
                    deep; one of the neighbors going to his house to borrow a bag, knocked and called at the door, but
                    receiving no answer, he pushed it open, and going in, discovered the old man lying by the fire dead,
                    with his feet in the fire much burnt. The fire had then burnt down, and how long he had been dead
                    was unkno[wn].
            1782.
            And it came to pass in those days, that the devil entered into Colonel [David] Williamson (who lived
                    fifteen or twenty miles west of us) and stirred him up, to raise a company of men, to go against a
                    town of friendly Indians, chiefly of the Delaware tribe, and professing the Moravian religion who
                    had taken no part with the hostile Indians, and who lived on the waters of the Muskingum.
            Having accordingly raised his men, he crossed the 
                        Ohio
                    , and reached the town. As the Indians were friendly, they 
                  
                     11 Here and in a number of places in the second half of the memoir,
                            pages in the manuscript are headed by a date. These headings have been retained and,
                            wherever they appear, indicate the start of a new page in the original document.
               
                     did not apprehend any danger, so neither took arms nor fled. He
                    told them, that he had come to take them over the 
                        Ohio
                    , as he was apprehensive that the hostile Indians would slay them. Being agreed to this;
                    that evening and night, the women were busily employed, pounding meal and baking bread, to take them
                    on their journey.
            In the morning, having them in his power, in cool blood, he ordered them all to go into two houses,
                    the men into one, and the women and children into another. He then gave orders to his men, to go in,
                    and fall on them with their tomahawks. To that some objected, and called on God to witness that they
                    were clear of the blood of those innocent people. However he found enough willing and ready to
                    accomplish his diabolical design. They went in and fell upon them. When the butchery commenced, two
                    young men that were brothers, sat down together, began to sing a hymn, and continued singing till
                    they were murdered. They were all murdered without distinction of age or sex; a piece of barbarity
                    the Indians were never known to be guilty of, disgraceful to any people professing Christianity. The
                    number slain I have no recollection of at this time. He then returned home in triumph.12 I never heard any person speak of the circumstance, without expressing his abhorrence,
                    excepting one poor old dirty Scotchman, named James Greenlee, who said, "owh mon ats a weel
                    cum don thang, fur they suppurted the other Injuns as tha cum and gaad;" for which he got
                    no applause from his neighbors.
            Although my father's mill was deserted, and the nearest fort was five miles off; yet the
                    Indians never burned it; and as mills were scarce, the people went in companies armed to get
                    grinding done, and my father went and ground for them. Notwithstanding every one either forted or
                    moved off, they all raised corn at home; those that had removed their families, returned themselves
                    to the forts, and went in armed companies from field to field, where while some worked, other kept
                    guard.
            During the spring of 1780 [1782] † my father moved fifteen miles; and it was during the
                    summer that Colonel 
                  
                     12 This unfortunate episode, with its brutal massacre of Indians at
                            Gnadenhutten in March, 1782, is discussed in Buck and Buck, The Planting of
                                Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 197–198, and in Downes, Council Fires on the
                                Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 271–272.
               
                     [William] Crawford's unfortunate expedition took
                        place,13 where my uncle Joseph Ekeley who had married my father's
                    sister Susanna, and who was a lieutenant in Captain David Andrew's company, was slain,
                    together with his captain and others of my acquaintance.
            In the spring of 1781 [1783] † my father moved ten miles. There was no mischief done by
                    the Indians this summer in our neighborhood.
            Soon after my father sold his millstones, irons, and bolting cloth, to Josiah Gammel, who at that
                    time was building a mill in the settlement on Chartier creek; and the land on Raccoon, to James
                    Crawford a 
                        Quaker
                    , who was buying land on the frontiers for the Quakers. After forting and moving off
                    from home for five years, my father this spring [1782] † moved twenty miles, and bought a
                    plantation of William Fry on Peter's creek, taking a final leave of his plantation on
                    Robertson's run. All however forted again or moved off, excepting one man of the name of
                    Clock, who lived one mile east of my father's place. One day during the summer, I was sent
                    home on an errand by my father, accompanied by John Woods. We had to pass Clock's house.
                    When we came there, we saw blood in the yard, but seeing no one, we pushed open the door and went
                    in, and found him and three of his little children lying tomahawked and scalped. One of the poor
                    little things was not quite dead, but lay gaping and sighing. These children were about three, five,
                    and seven years of age. The woman with her sucking child, and her oldest child, a boy about eleven
                    years of age had been taken prisoners. One little girl about nine years of age, was at the spring
                    when the attack commenced, and made her escape by running down the spring run, and hiding in the
                    weeds till she thought they were gone, when she ran to Turner's fort about three miles off.
                    The men from that fort pursued the savages, and after following them about four miles, found the
                    little child lying tomahawked and scalped, 
                  
                     13 Colonel William Crawford's advance against Indians in the
                            Sandusky Valley, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1782, and his retreat therefrom, which turned into panic and because a rout,
                            are decribed in Buck and Buck, The Planting of Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 198. Crawford was burned at the stake by Delaware Indians in
                            retaliation for the massacre of their kinsmen by the whites at Gnadenhutten. The Crawford
                            expedition is also discussed in Downes, Council Fires on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 272–274. As Downes wrote (p. 271), "There was no
                            truce in the Northwest following the surrender of the British at Yorktown in October,
                            1781."
               
                     with its mother's apron spread over it, she not being
                    able to carry it any further and keep up with them. Perhaps she might have thought, that by
                    spreading her apron over it, the wolves would not devour it, that they would be pursued, and that
                    probably her child would be found, carried to the fort and buried. After pursuing them some
                    distance, they found that they could not overtake them, and on their return home they carried the
                    child to the fort and buried it.
            During this time, there were seventeen killed, one wounded, and nine taken prisoners belonging to our
                    neighborhood.
            The five years last past, was in the time of the Revolutionary war; the British had taken the Indians
                    for their allies, and paid them for the scalps of men, women, and children which was the cause of
                    much more murder being committed, than would other wise have been.
            The relation I have here given, has been confined to our own neighborhood, but the frontiers west of
                    us, and on the east side of the Monongahela, suffered much, of which I can give no account at this
                    time.
            In the year 1783, my father bought land of John Kiser, which lay in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Kiser, purposing to go down there in the fall, my father and uncle Finch built a boat,
                    for myself and my two cousins, John and Josiah, to go down with him, take horses and cattle along,
                    and raise a crop of corn for them; as they intended removing themselves, the succeeding fall.
            I shall now commence a narrative of incidents connected with myself, leaving those connected with my
                    father for the present.
            About the twentieth of November [1783], we embarked on the Monongahela in our boat, in company with
                    Kiser, I having with me four head of horses and some cattle. We landed at the mouth of Limestone
                        Creek,14 but there was then, no settlement there. We made search for a road,
                    but found none. There was indeed a buffalo road, that crossed Limestone creek a few miles above its
                    mouth, and passing May's lick, about twelve miles from Limestone, went on to the Lower Blue
                    Lick on Licking river, and thence to Bryant's 
                  
                     14 Maysville, 
                                Kentucky
                            , is now located at the mouth of Limestone Creek. For a while the community was
                            known as Limestone, as it is called in this narrative.
               
                     station;15 but as we knew nothing of it, we
                    went on, and landed at the mouth of Licking river, on the twenty ninth day of the month.
            The next day, we loaded a periogue, and a canoe, and set off up Licking, sometimes wading and pulling
                    our periogue and canoe over the ripples. After working hard for four days, and making poor headway,
                    we landed, hid our property (which was whiskey and our farming utensils) in the woods, and returned
                    to the 
                        Ohio
                    , which by this time had taken a rapid rise, and backed up Licking, so that we took
                    Kiser's boat up, as far as we had taken our property and unloaded her. He left on the bank
                    of Licking, a new wagon and some kettles. Leaving our property to help Kiser, we packed up, and set
                    off up Licking, and travelled some days; but making poor progress, and snow beginning to fall, with
                    no cane in that part of the country, for our horses and cattle, we left Kiser, and set off to hunt
                    for cane. He sent his stock with us, in care of Henry Fry, who had come down in his boat with cattle
                    for his father.
            When we came to the fork of Licking, we found a wagon road cut out, that led up the South fork. This
                    road had been cut by Colonel [Henry] Bird, a British officer, who had ascended Licking in keel
                    boats, with six hundred Canadians and Indians. They were several days in cutting out this road,
                    which led to Riddle's fort, which stood on the east side of Licking, three miles below the
                    junction of Hinkston's and Stoner's fork; yet our people knew nothing of it, till
                    they were summoned to surrender. Refusing to do so, they attacked the fort with cannon, which their
                    stockade not being able to withstand, they were compelled to surrender. A few were killed, and all
                    the rest made prisoners. They then proceeded 
                  
                     15 Bryant's (or Bryan's) Station was established in
                            1779 on North Elkhorn Creek about five miles northeast of 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     . An account of its founding and early history, and especially
                            of its unsuccessful storming by the Indians with British aid, is told in George W. Ranck,
                            "The Story of Bryan's Station: An Address," Bryant's Station, ed. Reuben T. Durrett (Filson Club
                                Publications, No. 12; 
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., 1897), 69–130. Ranck describes Bryant's Station as it
                            first appeared (pp. 73–76); as it appeared in 1782 (pp. 86–87), the
                            year before 
                                Spencer
                             Records settled in 
                                Kentucky
                            ; and at other times (passim). Records describes the
                            construction of a fort such as Bryant's Station on p. 374.
               
                     to Martin's fort, six miles higher up Stoner, and
                    succeeded in taking it also.16
            
            We took the road, and went on, the snow being about half leg deep. Early in the morning, about three
                    miles from Riddle's fort, we came to three families encamped. They had landed at Limestone,
                    but finding no road, they wandered through the woods, crossed Licking, and happening to find the
                    road, took it. The night before we came to them, Mrs. Downey was brought to bed. They were poor
                    people, and had not so much as a spare blanket to stretch over her, but were obliged to put up forks
                    & poles, and place brush thereon for a kind of a shelter. She had no necessaries of any
                    kind, not even bread, nothing but venison and turkey. They went to the same station that we did. She
                    had several children, one of them a young woman. She said, that she had never done better at any
                    such time in her life. So we see that the Lord is good and merciful, and worthy of praise from all
                    intelligent beings, fitting the back to the burden. I have mentioned this circumstance, for the
                    encouragement of others; we should in all times of trouble, trial or difficulty, put our trust in
                    the Lord, who alone is able to save all that put their trust in him.
            The names of these families were Reeves, Dewit, and Downey.
            We went on to the fort, where we found plenty of cane. The next morning, John Finch and myself, set
                    off to try to find 
                        Lexington
                    , and left the horses and cattle in the care of Josiah Finch and Henry Fry, with orders
                    if the snow melted off, or rain fell, to be sure to take the horses and cattle over the river: and
                    as there was no road, we took up Mill creek and towards the head of it, we met some hunters, who
                    lived on the south side of Kentucky river, who gave us directions how to find a hunting trace, that
                    led to Bryant's station. They gave each of us a wheat cake, that had been ground on a
                    hand-mill, and sifted; and as I was not well, and had not seen bread for more than two weeks, I
                    thought it was the best bread that I ever had tasted. We went on, found the 
                  
                     16 Thomas D. Clark, Frontier America: The Story of the
                                Westward Movement,
                            
                                New York
                            , 1959), 127, indicates that Captain Henry Bird invaded Kentucky from north of
                            the Ohio River in May, 1780, with 150 whites, plus Indians. Clark
                            mentions the capture of Hinkston's and Ruddell's forts and refers to the
                            "excessive brutality" of the Indians during this raid. Also see
                            Billington, Westward Expansion, 187.
               
                     trace, and arrived at Bryant's station. The next day
                    we went to McConnel's Station, about one mile north of 
                        Lexington
                    , where there was a mill. We there got the meal, we had promised to get for Kiser, and
                    the next morning set off back. It rained almost the whole day, about sunset we came to the river,
                    which was very high. We expected to find the boys on our side of the river, with a good fire; but
                    they had not crossed it; and as they had not obeyed our orders, we knew of no better way to
                    retaliate on them, than to take a journey cake,17 walk on the bank, and hold it
                    up for them to see it. We did so, they saw it, but did not taste it. By this time the rain was over,
                    but we were wet and cold; and as it began to get colder, we made a fire, and camped there that
                    night. Early the next morning, we set off down the river, and at night encamped on the bank of
                    Licking. It was very cold, from which we suffered much, and the next evening after dark arrived at
                    Riser's camp. The next morning, we set off on our return, when we got to Riddle's
                    station, the river had fallen so much, that we could cross it, we therefore went on to
                    McConnel's station, where we arrived the last of December. Sometime in January four of us
                    set out to hunt on Stoner;18 the buffalo being all gone off, we had to go about
                    twenty miles after them. The second night it began to snow and get very cold. In the morning the
                    ground was so much covered with snow, that we could not track our horses; we hunted for them, but
                    not being able to find them, we hung up our saddles, and started for home, thinking that our horses
                    had gone in that direction. It snowed all day, at night when we came to Elkhorn creek the snow was
                    knee deep. We waded the creek about the same depth, and soon found ourselves in a large cane-brake,
                    where we could get no wood to make a fire. The cane was all bending with snow, and no broken wood
                    was to be found: however we found an old hiccory stump, about fifteen feet high. We pushed it down,
                    and it being dry and rotten, we put fire to it. It was all the fire we had that night; we scraped
                    away the snow and lay by it: it burnt slowly all night, but we could not dry ourselves by it. The
                    next morning we went on four miles to Bryant's 
                  
                     17 Commonly known as johnnycake and made of corn meal, flour, eggs,
                            and milk. Such a cake could be taken on trips or journeys.
                  
                     18 Hunting was especially important in the early history of 
                                Kentucky
                            . See Clark, Frontier America, 92–100,
                            105–108.
               
                     station, where when we arrived, our leggings and moccasins were
                    frozen, and some of our feet frost-bitten. Shortly after our arrival at home, our horses were found
                    by hunters and brought in. The snow that then fell, was not all off the ground till the tenth of
                    March, and then went off with rain. This was a very cold winter, my horses (with the exception of
                    one) and all my cattle strayed off so that I could not find them.
            The tenth of March 1784, John Finch and myself, set off after our property we had left on Licking,
                    and found all safe; but had some trouble on account of high water, and were gone ten days.
            In the course of this spring, people began to settle in the neighborhood of 
                        Lexington
                    . Colonel Garrard19 settled a station on Stoner, and General
                    Benjamin Harrison20 settled a station on the same river. I think he was a cousin
                    to the much lamented brave Genl. William Henry Harrison. William Modelling settled a station on the
                    road between Hinkston's and Stoner's forks; and Simon Kenton21
                    settled a station one mile north of where the town of 
                        Washington
                     now stands, the capital of 
                        Mason County
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    . A blockhouse and warehouse was also built at Limestone, which was a great convenience
                    to emigrants as they came rapidly down this spring.
            The land my father had bought, lay remote from any settlement, and times being dangerous, we could
                    not go on it; we therefore took a lease of Alexander McConnel. We put up a cabin, and four of us
                    lived together, my two cousins, Henry Fry, and myself. We had to get our meat, by hunting deer and
                    turkies, as the buffaloes were too far off. This spring I was attacked with a fever, and was very
                    bad; after 
                  
                     19 James Garrard, Baptist minister and early political leader in 
                                Kentucky
                            , served two terms as governor of that state during the late 1790's and
                            early 1800's.
                  
                     20 The identity of this person is unknown, but possibly he was a
                            member of the famous Harrison family of 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  
                     21 Simon Kenton was a famous Ohio Valley frontiersman. Further on in
                            the narrative, 
                                Spencer
                             Records indicates his pleasure at having been personally acquainted with
                            Kenton. Moreover, Records proudly recalls an episode illustrating that he was more shrewd
                            than Kenton—at least on one occasion. See below, p. 867. Clark, Frontier America, 100, states: "Kenton was present at the occurrence of
                            more major events in frontier history than any other frontiersman." For a
                            book-length biography of Kenton, see Edna Kenton, Simon Kenton: His Life and
                                Period, 1755–1836 (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1930).
               
                     I had got some better, but not yet able to work, I heard of one
                    of my horses at Harrison's station. I went after him, and upon my return home, it rained
                    almost the whole day. I got very wet, and took a relapse, and was worse than I was at first. This
                    put me back so much with my work, that I got but four acres planted; but as range was good and cane
                    plenty, I raised enough to supply my father, till he raised corn for himself. This spring my uncle
                    Finch came down the 
                        Ohio
                    , and lived in the cabin with us. I heard of my mare, about fifteen miles north of 
                        Lexington
                    , & found her near a great buffaloe road, that comes from the north-west, out of
                    the knobs, and leads to the Blue Licks, crossing North Elk-horn at a place which was then called the
                    Great Crossings, which name it still bears. My two year old colt was found near the Big Bone lick,
                    and brought in, so I got all my horses again. In the course of the summer, I made two trips to
                    Limestone, packing rum and iron for Thomas January of 
                        Lexington
                    . I also built a good cabin for my father, and in the fall gathered my corn. A small
                    stockade fort was likewise built at the Blue Licks, to make salt at a spring on the west side of the
                    river, which was most convenient to timber, although the main spring was on the east side.
            Sometime this summer, a family landed a[t] Limestone, that had the small-pox, and
                    went on to the Blue Licks. They were not permitted to enter the fort, but encamped on the opposite
                    side of the river. The Indians fell on them in the night, and murdered the whole of them.
            About the first of August, I set off to hunt my cattle, accompanied by Alex[an]der McConnel we
                    steered a North east course till we struck the south fork of Licking we then steered a west course
                    and hunted them three days and then returned back and and [sic] encamped not far from main Licking
                    thinking to go to the mouth of Licking quite early in the morning before we came to main Licking we
                    killed a large buck elk, which we skinned, and hung up the hide. We then took some of the meat, soon
                    came to the river, and went down it. We there saw the fresh track of an Indian, which we followed
                    for several miles. That evening a heavy shower of rain fell, so that both our guns got wet, which
                    rendered them useless. About sunset we came to Riser's camp, and encamped there for the
                    night. The Indians had been there, cut his wagon some, and broke some of his kettles. As  our guns were wet and out of order, we let them remain so; which I
                    think was providentially ordered; for if we had put them in order that night, which could only be
                    done, by picking powder in at the touchhole, and shooting them off; the Indians would have heard
                    them, and have come in search of us, and found us by our fire. If we had put them in order in the
                    morning, they would have heard us, as they were encamped not more than half a mile off, which we
                    knew nothing of. When morning came, we thought we would get our horses first, and then put our guns
                    in order. We accordingly left them at the camp, and set out to hunt our horses separately. While we
                    were out, we heard the reports of ten or twelve guns, not more than half a mile off. When we met,
                    neither of us had found our horses. He said "did you hear the guns?" I told him I
                    did; He said It is Indians: I replied, that I knew it was. He then said, they have probably found
                    our camp and are watching it. I told him, that the woods were open, that if they were on this side,
                    we could see them; that we had better run to the river bank and look down. Should they be there and
                    not shoot us, we must try to make our escape. We did so, and seeing nothing of them, took up our
                    guns, saddles and blankets, and carried them out of sight of our camp. We soon found our horses,
                    saddled them and mounted. McConnel asked me if I could find the way home without keeping the river.
                    I answered in the affirmative. He then said, "Go ahead, and make the best of your way, for
                    if the Indians find our trail, they can follow us faster than we can ride; and as our guns are out
                    of order, we cannot defend ourselves, and may be killed." At that time the ground was very
                    wet, with a thick undergrowth of weeds and pea-vines, which made it bad riding, and much in their
                    favor to follow us.
            Leaving the river at that place, which we struck no more, we rode four miles to a creek, which we
                    could not ford, being swollen by the rain which fell the evening before; however by riding up the
                    stream a short distance we came to a place where three forks came together, where we crossed above
                    the forks, and rode up the last fork about one hundred yards in the water. When we came out, we fell
                    on the trail of a large herd of buffaloes, that had been feeding; we followed them some distance, to
                    make them think we were hunting, and to try to break them off our trail should they be following  us. About sunset we came to the place, where we had killed the
                    elk as we went down. McConnel said that If I would make fire, he would go back on our trail and
                    watch it. To which I agreed. He went back half a mile, and returned after dark, and reported that he
                    saw nothing of them following us. We then put out our horses, and as it looked like rain, stretched
                    up the elk hide, and lay down. Soon a heavy shower fell, so that the water ran under us; we were
                    obliged to stand up under the hide till it was over. We kindled up our fire which was nearly out,
                    and gathered up brush and sticks to lay on till morning, which being clear, we concluded to stay
                    there, dry our clothes and blankets and put our guns in order, as we knew the Indians could not
                    follow our trail, in consequence of the rain which had fallen in the night. Having done so, about
                    ten o'clock we started for home, where we arrived on the evening of the tenth day after
                    leaving it.
            The last of the same month, four of us set out to hunt on a small stream, then known by the name of
                    Dry run, about sixteen miles north of 
                        Lexington
                    . We there killed the largest buffaloe bull I ever saw slain, which was good beef. This
                    was at the time called bellowing time, when the bulls are following the cows. The calves are all
                    produced at one time in the spring, and when young resemble our common red calves. We skinned the
                    bull, and cut off all the meat in broad thin pieces, which we laid on the hide, and sprinkled salt
                    thereon, letting it lay till we made a long fire. We then put a row of forks on each side of the
                    fire, and placed poles on the forks. Small sticks were then laid on them, and the meat laid on the
                    sticks over the fire, where it remained till half cooked; it was then turned over, and left to lay
                    till morning, for by this time it was in the night. We then took our guns, saddles and blankets,
                    slipped off and lay down in the darkest place we could find, for fear the Indians would stumble on
                    us. In the morning we put the meat in bags and carried it home.
            Sometime towards the last of November, John Finch and myself, set out to hunt on Stoner; we met a
                    gang of six buffaloes. He shot one and it fell. The others ran about a hundred yards and stopped. I
                    followed them and shot the leading cow: she fell; the others stood till he came up: we kill[ed] the
                    six buffaloes with six shoots, which was the best shooting I ever knew done at buffaloes. It was all
                    good beef.  We had each of us two horses, but we could not carry
                    it all, although we carried home the heaviest loads of buffaloe meat, that I ever saw pack[ed]. I
                    salted my part for my father.
            About Christmas [presumably 1784], my father landed at Limestone, and sent me word. I went up to help
                    him move. The first night, we lay at the North fork of Licking, eight miles from Limestone. This
                    stream enters Licking three miles above the junction of the South Fork. The next day I waded
                    Hinkston's fork about waist deep, Stoner's fork about the same depth, and
                    Huston's fork about knee deep seven times. The old buffaloe road went up it, crossing at
                    every bend. At night we encamped in the woods. That evening, I was taken with pains in my back and
                    hips so that I could hardly walk and carry my gun. That night, I lay with my feet to the fire, and
                    drank spice-wood tea. The next morning I was broke out thick with the measles. That day I was
                    obliged to ride, and in the evening we arrived at home, where I soon got well.
            Before my father left 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , he sold his plantation on Peter's' [sic] creek to
                    Amos Wilson, on a credit; which caused me to have three trips to Pennsylvania before I got it.22 He had also exchanged his place on Robertson's run, with Alexander
                    Modelling for five hundred acres of land, six miles west from where 
                        Washington
                     now stands, the capital of 
                        Mason County
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    .
            In February 1785, my father and myself, set out to hunt on Stoner. He was a great hunter, and had
                    killed more deer than any man I ever knew; but as he had never killed a buffaloe and as I had killed
                    many, he gave up for me to shoot. We fell in with a small gang of buffaloes, and I killed a good
                    cow, which was good beef, and sufficient for our loads. The way that buffaloe meat was packed, was
                    to split it open lengthwise, and put it on the horse, back foremost; after balancing it crack the
                    back bone, so that it may hang down on each side, which made a good load to pack. When carried home,
                    it was skinned, the wool sheared off to make clothes, and the hide tanned for shoe leather.
            In the fall of this year, William Wood and Arthur Fox laid out 
                        Washington
                    ; shortly after it was laid out, my father 
                  
                     22 These three trips, made in three successive years and by three
                            different routes, are discussed hereafter on pp. 346–347, 349–350,
                            352–353. Very likely the sum of money eventually collected was not extremely
                            large even for that time, but the narrative is unfortunately silent on the subject.
               
                     settled there, being the second that settled in it. The reason
                    of his settling there, was in order to get as near to his land as he could.
            However, emigrants came rapidly down the 
                        Ohio
                    , this fall and winter, and the next spring, many of whom settled in 
                        Washington
                    .23 In December I went to hunt buffaloe with two men and took my
                    brother John with me. The first day we found no buffaloe. The next day we went on Fox creek about
                    thirty miles from 
                        Washington
                    , and encamped. We set out to hunt in the evening, when I killed a good buffaloe cow,
                    and on my return to camp, I met a gang of buffaloes, and killed the largest and best cow I ever
                    killed. The other men killed nothing. I gave each of them half a buffaloe. We all had our loads. In
                    the morning, we loaded our horses, and set off home, where we arrived some time after night.
            In the year 1786,* the Indians commenced horse-stealing. In March,
                    they stole seven horses from 
                        Washington
                    . Fifteen of us crossed the Ohio at Limestone, and pursued them about seven miles, when
                    we came to their camp. We saw one of them about fifty yards from the camp, chopping with his
                    tomahawk. It was in the open bottom of a small run, and he had not discovered us. We halted, and
                    divided into three companies; one to slip round to the right hand, one on the left, and the other to
                    stay there, till the two first companies had time to get round. Richard Gaines, one that was left on
                    the trail, fired at the Indian that was chopping, and alarmed them, so that they made their escape.
                    This was attributed to cowardice in him; as it was thought, that he would rather 
                  
                     * See Shane's Histl. Collns. Vol. ii, F. [or J?]
                            Shanks' Notes, p. 21–22. Marshall's 
                                Kentucky
                            . [The remainder of the note is illegible.]24
                  
                  
                     23 According to William E. Connelly and E. Merton Coulter, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                , (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1922), I, 210, 
                                Washington
                             was located in 
                                Mason County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , and was laid out as a town about 1786. It was located approximately 8 1/2
                            miles southwest of Limestone (Maysville) near Simon Kenton's Station, which was
                            founded in 1784. See also Kenton, Simon Kenton, 172–176.
                  
                     24 As is mentioned in the editorial statement, note 1, this footnote
                            appears in the manuscript of the Records' narrative but was apparently added by
                            someone other than the original penman. Although the bulk of the Shane Collection is held by
                            the Presbyterian Historical Society at 
                                Philadelphia
                            , the volumes cited here are in the Kentucky Papers, Draper MSS, 12CC. See
                            Reuben Gold Thwaites (ed.), Descriptive List of Manuscript Collections of the
                                State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1906), 37–38. "Marshall's 
                                Kentucky
                            " is possibly a reference to Humphrey Marshall, The
                                History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (1 vol., 1st ed., 
                                Frankfort
                            , Ky., 1812; 2 vols., 2nd ed., 
                                Frankfort
                            , 1824).
               
                     shoot and alarm them, so that they would run off, rather than
                    risk an engagement with them. However we recovered the horses they had stolen, and five riding
                    saddles, some other property and returned home.
            About the last of the month, the Indians stole twenty horses from 
                        Washington
                    . We pursued them about fifteen miles and encamped. A heavy shower of rain fell in the
                    night, so that we could scarcely follow the trail next morning, the rain having nearly put the
                    tracks of the horses out. We soon came to the knobs of Locust creek, there they had scattered, and
                    we could follow them no farther, so that they escaped & we returned home.
            This summer we had to get our meat by hunting. Sometimes we had to go twenty or thirty miles after
                    buffaloe, hunt all day, and ride after dark; so that if the Indians were dogging us on our trail,
                    they would lose sight both of us and our trail. We would then hobble our horses, take our guns,
                    saddles and blankets, slip off some distance from our horses, and lay down in the darkest place we
                    could find, for fear the Indians would stumble on us; sometimes suffering with cold, sometimes with
                    gnats and mosquitoes, afraid to make fire; though in the winter we made fire. Deer and turkies were
                    plenty, so that we had sufficient; our bread was made by grinding corn on hand mills. Sometimes we
                    had to stand sentry all night at different parts of the town, for fear the Indians would fall on us
                    in the night. And thus we lived in 
                        Washington
                    , two years and four months.
            The twenty ninth day of August [1786], I set off from Limestone for 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , after money for my father, in a canoe, in company with Abner Overfield, a man by the
                    name of Blair, and another whose name I have forgotten; four of us which was dangerous, as we had to
                    keep near shore. We often saw fresh signs of Indians, but did not see any of them. One day a heavy
                    shower of rain fell, we got very wet; after the rain we saw more signs of Indians, and at night it
                    was thought best to lay in the canoe. We had sometimes lain on the bank, and made fire. Getting very
                    chilly, Overfield said, "the Indians are not as thick as trees in the woods, I will have
                    fire." I went with him on the bank, made a fire and lay by it. The other two choose [sic] to lay in the canoe. Next morning, shortly after we started, we saw the fresh
                    track of an Indian, who had come down the bank to  the river. We
                    went on till we came near the mouth of Fishing creek; at that time and place, it was about fifty
                    yards from the bank to the water, and we had to keep about forty yards out in the river, it was so
                    shallow. Between us and the beach, we saw a raft laying. I told them to stop the canoe, and I would
                    go and see if it was fresh. Upon examination, I came to the conclusion, that they had just cross
                    [ed] on it. Shortly after, we heard as it were, turkies yelping on the bank. Supposing it to be
                    Indians trying to decoy us ashore, as we were too far off for them to shoot us, we went on and
                    passed the mouth of the creek.
            Just above the creek was a plantation, and a path down the bank. Supposing that people were living
                    there, I and another ran up the bank, to let them know about the signs we had seen. We found the
                    place deserted. There was a field of corn with hogs in it, one of which had been just killed by the
                    Indians, whose tracks looked as fresh as our own. We then crossed the river to the Indian side, and
                    at night we crossed over to a plantation on the Virginia side,25 where we stayed
                    overnight, and arrived at 
                        Wheeling
                     the next evening. The people with whom we stayed the preceeding night, were loading a
                    keel-boat to move up to 
                        Wheeling
                    , and also arrived there.
            In the morning I set off, and went to the man, that owed my father the money, but did not get it. I
                    then took water at the mouth of the Youghogany. This fine little river takes it[s] rise in 
                        Virginia
                    , and runs through the north-west corner of 
                        Maryland
                    , west of the Alleghany mountains; then passes through 
                        Laurel
                    -Hill, and part of 
                        Fayette
                    , Westmoreland and Alleghany counties, entering the Monongahela in Alleghany county,
                    twelve miles above 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , by a mouth, one hundred and fifty yards wide. I returned home down the Ohio in a
                    family boat.
            In May 1787, Colonel [Levi?] Todd came with a company of men from 
                        Lexington
                    , to go in search of Indians on the Scioto and Paint creek, and raised some men in 
                        Washington
                    . He crossed the Ohio with his men, one hundred and seventy in all, at Limestone, and
                    proceeded on towards Old 
                        Chillicothe
                    , 
                  
                     25 The northern side of the Ohio River is
                            referred to as the Indian side. The present state of West Virginia was, of course, then a
                            part of 
                                Virginia
                            ; moreover, Kentucky itself remained a part of Virginia until statehood was
                            achieved in 1792.
               
                     on the North fork of Paint creek.26 After
                    we had crossed the Sunfish mountain, we fell on a camp of four Indians, three men and a boy. We
                    killed two of them and took the other two prisoners. That day a heavy shower of rain fell, we all
                    got wet, and at night encamped on an old Indian path. As the moon gave light, thirteen of us turned
                    out, to go in search of an Indian camp, which the prisoner had informed us of. We left our provision
                    [s] and blankets at camp, took the path and went on about five miles, till we came to a small creek.
                    We heard dogs bark, and bells, about a quarter of a mile off, up the creek. We concluded to stay
                    there, slip up to their camp before day, and to fire on them at daylight. We tied our horses, and
                    made a small fire, thinking it best not to make a large one. Two of our men, not thinking it safe to
                    attack them ourselves, set off back for more assistance, and left us sitting round our little fire,
                    hungry, wet and cold. About daylight, about forty men came on; and without making a halt to consult
                    as to what would be best to do, rode hastily on, so that before we could get our horses and mount,
                    we fell nearly in the rear. They rode up to the camp, alarmed the dogs: the men all made their
                    escape, so that they only took three squaws prisoners. Flanders Callaway shot an old squaw, which he
                    should not have done; I saw her lying on her face with her back naked. She was much pitted with the
                    small-pox, which I think they got among them, when they killed the family at the Blue Licks in 1784.
                    We got horses, and a great many articles, such as twilled bags, pewter &c which they got by
                    plundering the people as they moved from Virginia to 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The rest of the men coming up, the plunder was all divided among the companies. The men raised at 
                        Washington
                     composed one company. It was sold at vendue on the spot; our part amounted to forty
                    three shillings for each man. We then set off for home, and at night encamped on a branch of Sunfish
                    creek, where the Indian man made his escape.
            This spring, two men, Smith a Yankee, and Thomas a Welshman, set out from 
                        Washington
                     early in the morning to hunt their horses, and found them in a cane-brake about 
                  
                     26 During the late 1780's and early 1790's the
                            Kentucky frontiersmen made sporadic raids against the Indians across the 
                                Ohio
                            . Presumably the expedition described here illustrates such a raid. Downes, Council Fires on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 311–312.
               
                     half a mile from 
                        Washington
                    . The horses were in a small open place, one on each side. Each man went to his horse.
                    Smith discovered Indians about ten steps from him in the edge of the cane, with their guns pointed
                    at him; he had no time to run, but went up to them. They told him to call the other man to come to
                    them. Thomas had not yet seen them when Smith called to him. In place of jumping in the cane
                    & clearing himself, as he easily could have done, he went up to them. They kept them all day
                    in the canebrake. There were four Indians and a white man, who told them he was taken when a child
                    from 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . After night they went to Lee's Station, about two miles from 
                        Washington
                    , and tried to get horses out of a small pasture near the station: but the dogs were so
                    fierce they could not get them. They made several attempts, but were driven back by the dogs.
            They then set off for the Ohio River, and on the river hill, about four miles
                    from 
                        Washington
                     told their prisoners to go home. Thomas set off at the word go, but Smith told them he
                    could not go without his horse, this they refused to give up. He took out his steel tobacco box, and
                    said he would give them that for his horse. The Indian took it, and was for keeping it and his horse
                    both. Smith told him it was not honest, to keep his horse and box both, he then returned the box to
                    him, saying take it. Thomas was calling on Smith to come, but the old Yankee was still contending
                    for his horse. The white man told him, he had better go, as the Indians were getting mad, and if he
                    made them mad, they would kill him.
            1787.
            He then set off, and about daylight they arrived in town. This was what I never heard of Indians
                    doing, either before or since.
            In July I again set off for Pennsylvania after my father's money, and met a company at
                    Stroud's station, fourteen miles east of 
                        Lexington
                    . About forty men met, all armed. I there met John Gosset, a young man, with whom I had
                    been acquainted in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . We took a trace that had been lately marked out, passing the mud-lick at that time a
                    very noted place, crossed Licking and proceeded on over a very rough and mountainous part of the
                    country, crossing the  Great Kanawha at Morris'
                    station, a little below the Mouth of Gauly river. Above the mouth of this river it is called New
                    River. We there took an old cut out road, that led to Green-brier Court-house, now Lewisburgh, which
                    was eighty-six miles. At this place the company separated. Cosset and myself travelled in company;
                    we proceeded up the big levels, crossed the Droop mountain, and up the little levels to the
                    Clover-lick, keeping Greenbriar river all the way to the right hand. At this lick, we took a trace
                    to the left hand, crossed a mountain, and fell on the head of the Tygart valley fork of the
                    Monongahela river, which we descended. This valley had been settled, but the inhabitants had all
                    moved off for fear of the Indians, and had not yet returned. The Monongahela & Tygart, both
                    run north, and interlock with the Little Kanawha, Gauley and Elk rivers in the Greenbriar mountain.
                    Before we came to the mouth of Tigart, we left it on the left hand, and passing through the
                    Monongahela glades, proceeded down to 
                        Brownsville
                    .27 I went to the man that owed my father the money, but did not get
                    it. I took a judgement bond on him, with a stay of execution for one year. I then returned home down
                    the Ohio in a family boat.
            1787.28 This fall, the Indians killed Lot Masters and Hezekiah Wood,* near 
                        Washington
                    , when they were hunting; and scalped Thomas Talmage a boy about twelve years of age at
                    Lee's Station about two miles from 
                        Washington
                    . He was sitting near a fire after night, they had to cook at in the day-time: 
                        1788.
                     the Indians jumped on him, and took off his scalp, doing him no other injury. He got well,
                    but hair never grew 
                  
                     * See Shane's Collections, iii, 152. They were
                            killd, in spring 1786.29
                  
                  
                     27 The circuitous route described above was probably selected to
                            reduce danger of capture by the Indians. As the preceding and succeeding pages indicate,
                            conflict between settlers and Indians along the Ohio River was
                            intermittent during the 1780's. See Downes, Council Fires on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 277–309. Downes states (p. 311): "The actual
                            attacks on Kentuckians and on river immigrants to Kentucky dated from 1786 when the Indians
                            had been alarmed by the advent of squatters in 
                                Vincennes
                             and by George Rogers Clark's subsequent unsuccessful and repudiated
                            filibustering expedition in support of the squatters."
                  
                     28 This date appears at this point in the margin of the manuscript.
                            Whether it was inserted by the original penman or added by a later hand is unknown.
                  
                     29 This note is in the original document and refers to the Shane
                            Collection, Draper MSS, 13CC. See footnote 24.
               
                     on his head again. About the same time, hunters set out from
                    Stockton's Station, to hunt on Fox creek. At night they made a fire, and lay by it. The
                    Indians fired on them and killed one of the Stockton's; the others sprang up and ran. An
                    Indian threw a tomahawk, and hit one one [sic] of them on the back, but
                    fortunately it was not the edge and he escaped; but their horses and guns fell into the hands of the
                    Indians. It was supposed that the savages had fell on their trail, dogged them till night, and fell
                    on them while they slept.
            This winter I learned the art of surveying in 
                        Washington
                     with Zachariah Thompson, and bought a compass, chain, scale and dividers from David
                    Brodrick, for which I gave him thirty four dollars, twelve and a half cents.30
                    In March 1788, the Indians stole horses from John Kenton's station, two miles from 
                        Washington
                    . The horses were in a stable, not far from the station: the door was bolted in the
                    inside 
                        1788
                     with a wooden bolt. Not being able to open it, the[y] uncovered the roof on the side from
                    the station, sufficient for them to get in at, cut the bolt with their tomahawks, and took off the
                    horses. The men heard them at it, but were afraid to go out. In the morning one of them ran to 
                        Washington
                    . Fifteen of us crossed the river at Limestone, and took down the river till we found
                    their trail, at night we came to White-oak creek, which is a very crooked rapid running stream. They
                    took an old buffaloe road, which led up the stream crossing it at every bend, at that time about
                    waist-deep. We had to hold two or three of us together to enable us to cross it. We crossed it eight
                    times that night by moonlight, and twice next morning before sunrise. The trail then left the creek,
                    and steered a north east course. We pursued rapidly, and soon came to a place where they had halted
                    and made a small fire, but it did not appear that they had stayed there long; we pursued on and
                    about noon, we came to a place where an Indian had been watching their trail on horse back; we
                    supposed he had discovered us, as he had ridden off at full speed. We ran hastily on about a mile,
                        
                  
                     30 The federal government did not survey Kentucky under the
                            rectangular system established by the Ordinance of 1785. A knowledge of surveying was
                            important for settlers in frontier areas, as 
                                Spencer
                             Records indicates.
               
                    
                    
                        1788.
                     and came to their camp. The[y] had fled, but their fire was still burning. This camp was
                    large, & they had been there for some time: there were tracks of children in the ashes. We
                    there held a council whether to pursue them farther or not. Knowing their mode of warfare, and
                    believing that they had discovered us; we were aware that if they thought they could not stand us,
                    they would scatter in the woods and we could not find them, but if they thought they could stand us,
                    they would waylay us in some convenient place, take the first fire and we might be defeated as there
                    was but fifteen of us. We therefore concluded to pursue them no further, and so returned home. Their
                    camp was near where New market now stands.
            Sometime this spring, I ran a strait line with my compass to my father's land, from 
                        Washington
                    , and struck about twenty yards from the spring, where my father afterwards built his
                    house at; which was six miles, and marked the mile trees. This line was some time afterwards cut out
                    and 
                        1788.
                     made part of the road to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            About the same time John Machir, settled a station, half a mile east of my
                    father's land; to this station my father moved, but cleared ground and raised a crop of
                    corn on his own land. We had to get our meat by hunting, and pursue the same course of life, as when
                    we lived in 
                        Washington
                    .
            In August I again set off for Pennsylvania after money for my father, and met the company at the
                    Crab-Orchard, which place is in 
                        Lincoln county
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    . We took the road to the 
                        Cumberland
                     gap, being the route by which the Virginians reached Kentucky and passed over into
                    Powell's Valley. There the company separated, some of us turned to the east, leaving all
                    the waters of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Licking, and Sandy to the left hand. Jeremiah Woods, John Meeks, and myself travelled
                    in company, crossing some of the head waters of Clinch river, which takes its rise in Tazewell
                    county 
                        Virginia
                    , and runs southwest. It is one of the main branches of the 
                        Tennessee
                    , and interlocks with big Sandy. We then fell 
                    
                        1788.
                     on Blue-Stone, a small river, which rising in Giles County 
                        Virginia
                    , interlocks with Clin[ch?] and Big Sandy, and runs east into New ri[ver] above the
                    mouth of Green-brier river. We cross [ed] New River at English's Ferry, and after crossing
                    Green-Brier river, proceeded on to Green Brier Court-house. There Meeks left us, and we took the
                    same route which I had followed the preceding year, and arrived in Pennsylvania where I collected
                    the money due to my father.
            I then went to the State of 
                        Delaware
                    , to see the place of my nativity, and on my return home, crossed the Susque-hanna at
                    Havre de grace, where the river is one mile wide. I then passed through 
                        Baltimore
                    , and returned home down the Ohio in a family boat, having been four months absent from
                    home.
            In the winter, my father built a house on his own land; to which he moved. This was then the frontier
                    house, and continued to be so for two years. About the same time, the 
                        India
                     [ns] stole two good horses from my father, and two from Williams who lived in
                    Machir's Station.
            
                    1789.
                
            In March 1789, the Indians stole four horses from Machir's Station. Seven of us pursued them
                    to the Ohio River, about eight miles. When they came to the river, they had
                    went in, and gone down in the water, about one hundred yards, where they came out, and then went
                    down about a quarter of a mile, to where they had a raft. The river at that time was out among the
                    trees. When we came to the river, and saw that they had went in, we supposed that they had gone
                    over; and as we had run nearly all the way, we set down to rest. Shortly afterwards we heard them
                    halloo at the horses, which were not willing to take the river. We jumped up, ran down the river,
                    and soon found their trail. We saw two of the horses feeding, and found a gun and blanket laying.
                    One of our men took up the gun, and said he would take it with him, but he stayed with it, and as we
                    did not look back, we thought they were all coming on. My brother Laban and one more, kept along the
                    bank, to see on the river, while I and one more, kept about twenty yards out, to see in 
                    
                        1789.
                     the bottom. Happening to look towards the river, I saw my brother with his gun to his face,
                    as we ran to the river, his gun snapped. There were two Indians on the raft, with two of the horses,
                    one tied to the tail of the other. One of the Indians had hold of a halter, while the other was
                    trying to shove off the raft. The horses were about belly deep in the water, and not willing to go
                    farther, which prevented their getting off. Hearing the gun snap, they jumped into the river, one of
                    them made out into the river swimming and diving. Two of the men shot at the other, but missed him,
                    as he was most of the time under water. I fired the instant he raised, and hit him. My brother not
                    being able to get his gun off, as he had come off in a hurry and forgotten his knife; I took his gun
                    out of his hand, and struck the flint with my knife, and wh[ile] I had her in my hands, gave him the
                    finishing shot. The other continued swimming and diving but as the river was out among the trees, we
                    were prevented from seeing whether he reached the other shore or not. If he did, he got no 
                        1789.
                     horse, lost his comrade and gun, and got wet to the skin, so that he had not much to brag
                    of. When the affair was over, three of our men were missing, John Lewis, Joseph Wright, and Dickson
                    Lord. We took the scalp off the one that was killed, and with the two horses, returned back to the
                    place where we had found the gun and blanket. There we found the three gentlemen, just come out of
                    their hiding place. Lord tried to apologize by saying, they thought they had better stay there, and
                    if an Indian should escape, he would run there to get his gun, and then they would kill him. I told
                    him, that they had better went with us, and tried to prevent them from making their escape. One of
                    the horses belonged to Lewis, which we ought to have sold, and divided the money among us four:
                    however we gave it up to him. The owners of the other horses, not being with us, were glad to get
                    their horses. It was a long time, before they heard the last about hiding in the tree top.
            This spring I was elected Captain, and received my commission from the Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , to 
                    
                        1789.
                     take rank the twenty seventh of May 1789.
            About the same time, a small station was settled on the 
                        Ohio
                    , at the mouth of Lee's creek, about eight miles from us. Some time in May,
                    Amos Woods and his wife, who lived in the station, came to my father's on a visit, and put
                    his horses in a small pasture near the house. That day I was ploughing near the house and after dark
                    I put my horses out in the woods which I did every night, for fear the Indians would steal them. He
                    refused to put his out, thinking there was no danger. In the morning they were gone, and mine safe.
                    The Indians had been watching us, saw me ploughing and thought my horses were in the field. Their
                    tracks were on the ploughed ground not more than twenty yards from the house, where they had been in
                    search of them.
            Some time after that, Woods crossed the Ohio to hunt: in the evening on his return to his canoe it
                    was supposed that he discovered Indians, for he was heard to halloo, and was seen running by the
                    people of the station; but they could not help h[im,] he was killed and scalped.
            
                    1789.
                
            This summer a gentleman, by the name of Coleman, came from Virginia to 
                        Washington
                    . Having land on Licking, he got Simon Kenton to go and show him his land, and as it was
                    dangerous times he hired ten armed men to go with him. They set off from 
                        Washington
                    , twelve of them, and passing about five miles south of us, fell on to an old buffalo
                    path, that led down Camp Creek. About noon, they came to where the path crossed the creek, slanting
                    down it about fifty yards to the point of a bluff on the left hand side. The bluff was about six
                    feet high, and the ground fell back lower from the bluff. After they had crossed the creek, they
                    turned up it about fifty yards, where the woods were open, clear of under-brush, and plenty of
                    peavines. There they halted to refresh themselves, and let their horses feed, placing a sentry at
                    the creek. The bluff would completely hide them from the Indians should they follow them.
            That same day I set out to hunt in company with Tobias Woods; when we came to the path, we saw the
                    trail of a number of horses going down it, and not knowing that white men 
                    
                        1789.
                     were out, we supposed that Indians had been about 
                        Washington
                    , and stolen horses. I said to Tobi[as] "let us follow them, and if we can come
                    up with them, we will fire on them, and try to kill a couple of them; probably the rest will run and
                    leave the horses, so that we can get them, but if they turn on us, then we must run."
                    Having agreed to this, we threw down our hats, and ran down the path about a mile, when we came to
                    the creek. Hearing a horse snort, I said there they are. We stopped to see that our guns were well
                    primed and in good order. Just as we came to the creek, the sentry saw us. At that time we both had
                    black hair, and bare-headed. Both of us had dark colored hunting-shirts. Supposing us to be
                    Ind[ians] he ran to the company, and told them that the Indians were following them. We caught a
                    glimpse of him running, knew that we were discovered, and treed ourselves to see what we had to do.
                    The company being alarmed some started to run, we then heard Kenton halloo, "Stand your
                    ground, not a man run." Knowing it to be the voice of a white man, 
                        1789.
                     I halloed and he answered. We went over to them and told them, that we had been following
                    them, as we thought they were Indians who had stolen horses. Coleman asked me, what us two thought
                    we could have done with so many of them. If they had been Indians I told him, we intended to kill a
                    couple of them, and then we thought the rest would run and leave the horses, so that we could get
                    them; but that if they did not run, but turned on us then we must run too. He said, if we would go
                    with him he would give each of us fifty cents a day in cash. I told him we could not do it, for if
                    we did not return home at night, our people would think us killed by the Indians. We went back, got
                    our hats and went on hunting.31
            
            Some fifteen or twenty years afterwards, when I was residing in the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , which was the last time I saw Kenton, I travelled with him about twenty miles. After
                    talking over many incidents that occurred while we were acquainted in 
                        Kentucky
                    , such as hunting, following Indians, 
                  
                     31The foregoing incident is also mentioned in Kenton, Simon Kenton, 190–191.
               
                     and the like; he mentioned Woods, and our following them that
                    day. He said he thought 
                        1789.
                     he had men with him whom he could depend on, from the way he had heard them brag and boast;
                    but he found that if it had not been for him, they would have run and left their horses. I should
                    have supposed that General Kenton might have known better, from his long acquaintance with men, and
                    living a great part of his life in danger of Indians. It is a well established fact, that the more
                    men brag and boast, when there is no danger, the less may be expected of them when they think there
                    is danger.
            This brings to my mind, a saying of Jane Sprowl, a little girl, when we were living in Pennsylvania
                    in 1779. We had left home for fear of the Indians, and were then living at her father's.
                    Her brother Hugh & James Roberts were sitting by the fire, boasting and bragging what great
                    things they could do among the Indians. After hearing them for some time, she said "It is
                    easy to fight Indians, sitting in the chimney corner, with your bellies' full of mush and
                    milk.["] Although this was the saying of a little girl 
                        1789.
                     about eleven years of age, it is full of good sense. Had they been far from home, in the
                    Indian country, and half starved as many a poor fellow has often been, perhaps they might have had
                    different feelings.
            About the first of December of this year, Isaac Sellers my brother Laban's father in law,
                    set out to hunt, and took with him a mulatto boy, two horses, and his dog. Overstaying his time, his
                    wife got uneasy, thinking something had happened to him. Shortly after his dog came home, and then
                    we were satisfied that he had been slain by the Indians.
            My brother Laban, John Hughey and myself set out to hunt for him. The first day we searched on the
                    waters of Locust Creek. The next morning we crossed the dividing ridge, and fell on a small branch
                    of the North Fork of Licking. Going up it we soon found his camp, where he was lying killed and
                    scalped; his boy and horses taken off. He was lying at the camp on his face stripped naked. There
                    was a large log within ten feet from the camp; they had slipped 
                    up in [the] night behind the log, and when he was kindling his fire in the morning, sprung from the
                    log 
                        1789–1790.
                     on him, and stuck him in the throat like sticking a hog. This we ascertained was the case,
                    as we saw where they had lain behind the log. He had put some small sticks on his fire, which had
                    burned a small hole in the middle and went out. We carried him about a hundred yards, to where a big
                    tree had blown up, and made a deep hole. We laid him in the hole, covered him with a blanket, and
                    cut down all the dirt we could with our tomahawks on the body. We then placed a large heap of logs
                    over it, to prevent the wolves from getting at it, and then returned home.
            1790. I will now relate a dream that I dreamed, though to some it may seem useless, thinking a dream
                    is but a dream. However, I will relate it, and leave the reader to think what he will of it. About
                    the first of March, I set out to hunt with my brother Laban. We hunted off west about ten miles, and
                    when night fell, went up a small run to its head. After we had encamped, and made a fire as it was
                    too cold to lay without, we took our horses 
                        1790.
                     about two hundred yards off and spencilled them, so that if we should be surprised in the
                    night and not killed, we might get them. We then lay down to sleep, but as it was dangerous times we
                    kept all our clothes on; except our moccasins, with our shot pouches on, and our
                    guns by our side; my dog laying by my head I fell asleep and dreamed that my brother and I had set
                    out to hunt, and where we had hunted. Our going up the run, encamping, and putting out our horses,
                    laying down with our clothes on—my dog laying down by my head, every thing exactly as it
                    had happened. Then I thought that my dog looked down the run and growled, and that the Indians came
                    rushing on to us, and that it was with much difficulty we made our escape. I awaked, and thought It
                    was but a dream, but soon fell asleep again, and dreamed the same exactly over again, and waked
                    again. My dog then raised his head, looked down the run and growled, just as I had dreamed that he
                    had. I then became alarmed, awaked my brother, and told him that I suspected the Indians were
                    creeping up to us.
            
            
                    1790.
                
            I requested him to lay still, until I had raised up and put my moccasins on, and then I would lay
                    down, until he had done the same. I supposed that if we both raised up at one time, they would think
                    we were alarmed and rush on us. Having done so, we both jumped up at once, took up our guns, saddles
                    and blankets, and slipped off to the place where we had put our horses, and sat down, it being about
                    daybreak, which is the common time for Indians to make an attack. We then got our horses, set off to
                    hunt, and at night returned home. I thought at that time, and think s[o] still that the Indians were
                    creeping up to us.
            About the twentieth of March, the Indians were on the 
                        Ohio
                    , above the mouth of the Scioto with two prisoners whom they had taken. John May was
                    descending the Ohio in a boat, with three men, one of the name of Flinn, but the names of the other
                    two I have forgotten; and two young women. As soon as they cam[e] opposite the Indians, they
                    compelled the prisoners to go on the bank, and raise a lamentable 
                        1790.
                     cry, to induce them to land and take them on board; stating they had been taken captive,
                    but had made their escape.
            But May thinking it all a deception, made no attempt to land. They still continued to follow him, and
                    he at last being over persuaded by the women and Flinn, reluctantly consented to land. As soon as
                    the boat struck the bank, the Indians fired on them, killed May and one of the women, and took the
                    rest prisoners.
            Before the Indians had left the boat, Thomas Marshall32 of 
                        Virginia
                    , and some other gentlemen who were descending the Ohio with three boats weakly manned,
                    but heavily laden with horses and store-goods, hove in sight. The Indians sprang on board the boat
                    they had taken, compelling the prisoners to assist them, and being well manned, soon came opposite
                    to them. They then opened a heavy fire on them, who finding that they were not able to cope with the
                    savages, 
                  
                     32 Possibly the father or brother of John Marshall, Chief Justice of
                            the Supreme Court of the 
                                United States
                            , both of whom were named Thomas. Thomas Marshall, the father, had lived in
                            Virginia prior to about 1783, when he moved to Kentucky and became the holder of large
                            tracts of land.
               
                     either by fighting or running; abandoned two of the boats with
                    their cargoes to the Indians, and all went on board of one boat, 
                        1790.
                     and then being well manned shot rapidly ahead; the Indians seeing themselves fast falling
                    astern, gave up the chase.
            Before the Indians could land the two boats they had captured, they fell just below the mouth of the
                    Scioto.
            It was soon reported that the Indians had taken two boats, containing 2000 dollars worth of property
                    and 28 horses: whereupon I received orders to raise all the men in my power, and if the men could
                    not be otherwise obtained, to draft one third of my company, and rendezvous at Limestone the same
                    evening with six days provision. This notice was very short, first to try to raise men, then if they
                    could not be raised to draft them, and march ten miles to Limestone the same day.
            However I raised all the men I could without drafting, and marched to Limestone, where we met about
                    one hundred men, the exact number not recollected. We crossed the Ohio the same evening and
                    encamped. The next morning we were paraded by 
                        [no date indicated]
                     a brave field-officer,33 whose name I shall spare, and placed in two
                    ranks or lines of Indian file, with orders to march about twenty yards apart, with Captain John
                    Kenton at the head of one file and myself at the head of the other. He himself, rode in front on his
                    fine charger, with Doctor Johnston for surgeon in case of need, with my brother Laban in advance as
                    pilot, whom he had selected, knowing him to be a first-rate woodsman. At that time it would seem
                    that he had no need of a pilot, as we were to march up the 
                        Ohio
                    , however he found use for a pilot.
            We marched on in good order for some time, at length we fell on the fresh signs of a number of
                    Indians, our commander immediately became alarmed, and said to his pilot; let us quit the river and
                    take to the hills. He accordingly 
                  
                     33 Colonel James Wilkinson led a raid against the Indians at the mouth
                            of the Scioto River at about this time; possibly he is the "brave
                            field-officer." See R#2 C. Downes, Frontier 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1788–1803 (Ohio Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Columbus
                            , O., 1935), 21.
               
                     steered a north-east course, into the hills and knobs, and at
                    length fell on a creek, where more recent traces of Indians were seen. He was again most powerfully
                    alarmed, and said to his pilot, "for God's sake, Records, make
                    to the river. ["] He then 
                        1790.
                     steered a south course, to a small creek, and descended it to the Scioto River. At the
                    mouth of the Scioto river we found the two boats that had been abandoned by Marshall and his
                    company. All the property was taken away, with the exception of two new stills, which the Indians
                    had no use for. A great many cakes of chocolate, and papers of pins, lay scattered about on the
                    beach; but spoiled by the rain that had fallen on them.
            We went on board of the two boats and arrived safely at Limestone, having been commanded by such a
                    brave, courageous & warlike officer. Of the number of days we were out I have no certain
                    recollection.
            
                    Hard is the heart, that cannot feel, For cowards when distressed; Who will not drop one tear of
                        grief And pray they may find rest.
                
            On the fifteenth day of April, I was married to Elizabeth Ellrod, daughter of John T[eter?] Ellrod
                    and Mary his wife. I settled on my own land, six miles west of 
                        Washington
                    
                    
                        1790.
                     where I had previously built a log cabin, sixteen feet square, and cleared some ground. At
                    that time it was the outside cabin west.
            I will now give a description of my log cabin, and the way it was built. After raising it the
                    necessary height, a large log was laid across the middle, and overlaid with split logs. Two of the
                    pieces at one corner were cut out, to make a hole to go up above; then built up, so as to have room
                    to load & shoot, with port holes above and below. The door was made of strong puncheons,
                    pinned with a two inch pin, and barred with a strong bar, so that it could not possibly be forced
                    open.
            Abraham Gardner and Rudolph Fuss [Fuso?] took leases of me, and lived in the same cabin with us, as
                    they had no time  to build cabins for themselves. They were both
                    Dutchmen, and not used to guns, so that I could have no dependence on them, only that they would
                    make a show if Indians came in sight; and if we should be fired on, they might 
                        1790.
                     be shot at in place of me.
            This summer my brother Laban, and my brother-in-law John Hughey were employed to spy on the
                        Ohio river. On the second day of August, at a big lick on Locust creek,
                    four miles from the 
                        Ohio
                    , they saw the beds of twenty-two Indians who had been watching the Lick. They sent word
                    as soon as possible to Colonel [Robert] Rankin,34 who gave orders to me to
                    draught ten men from my company, and to meet in the morning at my father's, where I would
                    be met by fifteen men from Captain John Kenton's company;35 and from
                    there to go in search of them.
            I raised my men, and met according to orders, but only found six of Kenton's men. However we
                    set off, nineteen in number, and when we came to the lick, we saw that a number of horses had just
                    gone down the creek. They had been up on Stoner, the south fork of Licking, and had stolen twenty
                    horses. We pursued them rapidly to the 
                        Ohio
                    , they had all got over but four; at that place it was twenty yards from the bank to the
                    water, and growing thick 
                        1790–1791.
                     with grass. About fifty yards above, the water came up to the bank, with a thicket of
                    willows growing. An Indian was standing sentinel close to the bank; we saw him the instant 
                  
                     34 Naomi M. Hougham, contributor of the Records narrative, has in her
                            possession a photostat of & short document which is quoted below in its entirety: 
                        
                           
                              Sir In consequence of the Indian sign discover'd by the scouts of
                                            your district you are hereby directed to call out Ten of your Company having
                                            regard to those whose Lot it is to be draughted. They are not to be
                                            order'd on any other duty. Those who go on this occation [sic] will be under pay while in service. You may expec[t]
                                            15 men from Captn. Kentons Company who will be at your Fathers Early
                                            Tommorrow [sic] morning. Youl. Hold yourself in readiness
                                            Accordingly.
                              
                                            I am sir yr. Hble servt.
                                            Robert Rankins August 8d. 1790
                                        
                              Captn. 
                                                Spencer
                                             Records
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     35 Brother of Simon Kenton.
               
                     he did us. Some jumped down the bank after them; some ran up
                    the bank to keep them down; one made his escape by swimming and diving, two ran into the willows,
                    and we could not find them. My brother Laban killed one that had squatted in the grass. The one in
                    the river had many guns fired at him, but to no purpose, as he was most of the time under water. The
                    other Indians halloed and shot at us, but to no purpose, as the river was too wide. Only one ball
                    reached the shore, by skipping some distance on the water. We took the scalp off the one that was
                    killed, got his gun, and four horses which they had not got over the river, and returned home.
            About the first of March 1791, the Indians stole horses near 
                        Washington
                    , just before daylight. The horses were soon missed, and they were pursued. Snow
                    beginning to fall, and cover 
                        1791.
                     the ground, they were obliged to leave the horses, disperse and run to make their escape.
            John Gardner set out that evening from my house to hunt, and saw the track of one of them, who had
                    come near my fence before he saw it, and then turned short to the left, to go round the field. It
                    was a fine thing for him that I did not know of his coming there. Had I known it, I would have went
                    out, met the gentleman, and given him a salute.
            Some time in March Captain [William] Hubbell was descending the 
                        Ohio
                    . Below the mouth of Scioto, he was attacked by a large party of Indians, who came out
                    in their canoes, and fired on the boat, wounding four or five of his men, and killing two by the
                    names of Killpatrick and Tucker. They soon gave up pursuing Hubbell, and turned their attention to
                    Greathouse's boat which was then in sight, and as soon as the boat came in reach, attacked
                    it. This boat being weakly manned, surrendered without much resistance. They took the boat to shore,
                    killing Greathouse 
                        1791–1792.
                     and a man named Black. How many they took prisoners I have no recollection of at this time.
                    I went up to help bury the dead, and on our way we met a boy about fifteen years of age, who had
                    been taken prisoner, but had made his escape.  He turned back
                    and went with us. When we came to the boat, Black was lying in it, tomahawked and scalped. The boy
                    said, "there lays my poor old father." Greathouse lay on the bank tomahawked
                    & scalped.36
            
            There was a large sack of flour, some hogs and some other property in the boat, which they had not
                    taken off. After burying the dead we took the boat down to Limestone.
            Some time in the year 1792, application was made to my brother Laban and myself to view a road from
                    opposite 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , and cut it out a bridle-path, for a sum of money which the men in 
                        Washington
                     had made up; which we agreed to do. Forty miles of it was then an unbroken forest, and
                    as it was dangerous 
                        1792.
                     times, we took with us two men armed. We viewed the road down and cut it back. While two
                    worked the other two carried the four guns and provisions, keeping at the same time a look out.
                    Having accomplished the job to their satisfaction, we received our pay. It was some time afterwards
                    cut out, and has been for a long time a very public road.
            During this Summer the Indians were hunting opposite the mouth of Locust creek, having their camp
                    about four miles from the Ohio River. After killing a number of deer, they
                    needed horses to pack off the skins; and no doubt thinking that should they come into our settlement
                    and steal horses, the horses would be missed and they pursued and overtaken before they could
                    recross the 
                        Ohio
                    , as it was only about twenty miles to the mouth of Locust. Now about four miles south
                    of us the hills set in, forming a very rough and unsettled part of the country which continued to
                    the mouth of Locust, and so up to the road leading from 
                        Washington
                     to the Blue-Licks. Now should the Indians waylay this road and get horses, before the
                    news could be taken to 
                        Washington
                    , and men collected to go to the place, there would be sufficient time to cross and make
                    their escape, more especially as the men would have no way to cross the river. This was no doubt
                    their scheme.
            
               
                  36 Colonel William Hubbell's unfortunate encounter with the
                        Indians is also described in Appleton's Cyclopedia of American
                        Biography (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1888–1889), III, 294.
            
            
            A certain young man who lived on Stoner, was driving a wagon to Limestone; while the Indians were
                    waylaying the road in the knobs of Johnston's creek about fourteen miles from 
                        Washington
                    . When he came opposite to them, they sprung into the road before him, took his horses
                    by the bridle and made him prisoner. They then took him and his horses and set off for the
                        Ohio River, which they crossed after travelling twenty five miles over a
                    rough hilly part of the country. As the prisoner had a bottle of whiskey, the Indians drank pretty
                    freely, and got somewhat intoxicated. The roughness of the way, and the darkness of the night,
                    caused them to get bewildered, which retarded their progress, and was ultimately of advantage to
                    their prisoner.
            Shortly after he was taken, a traveler came on, going to 
                        Washington
                    , and found the wagon in the road and the gears laying. He rode hastily to 
                        Washington
                    , and took the news to Colonel Rankin who lived in 
                        Washington
                    . He sent off an express to me, ordering me to raise men & pursue them if I
                    possibly could.37 (Why did he not give orders to Captain John Kenton, who lived
                    only two miles west of 
                        Washington
                    , or to Captain Lee, who lived about the same distance east. Perhaps he thought they
                    would be slow in raising men, but knew I would promptly attend to it, and men could be sooner raised
                    on the frontier, than they could about town).
            But the express did not arrive till after night. As soon as it was light, I ran to my brother
                    Laban's and my brother-in-law John Hughey; and sent them after men with orders to meet at
                    my father's as soon as possible, while I ran to others. We soon met—ten of us
                    and took the road to Lee's-creek station on the 
                        Ohio
                    , about eight miles off, where I knew an empty flat-bottomed boat lay. We ran hastily
                    down, boarded the boat, shoved off, doubled [sic] manned the oars, and one took
                    the steering oar. We then pulled out into the middle of the river, and pushed on with all our force.
                    We made good head way and kept the middle of the river as long as we could do, for fear of passing
                    the place where they had crossed the river. We then fell over to the northwest side, then called the
                    Indian side, and kept near the shore to see the place where the horses came out of the river. We
                    soon 
                  
                     37 Apparently this is another example of Kentucky settlers'
                            forays against Indians across the 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
                     came to the place, landed, tied our boat, took the trail and
                    pursued them rapidly about four miles and came to their camp; but, they were gone. They had divided
                    about equally into three companies, which made us at a loss which trail to take. We wanted to follow
                    those that had the prisoner, as we were more anxious to release him than to kill them. However we
                    chose the middle trail, and following it, pursued them hastily about two miles, where they again
                    divided into two equal companies. We were again at a loss which trail to take, but chose the right
                    hand. The trail by this time was small, but we pursued it as long as we could see and encamped for
                    the night. At daylight we continued the pursuit, and soon heard them hallooing, according to their
                    custom upon leaving the camp. We then felt certain of overtaking them, and soon came to their camp,
                    from which they had steered a north course. We followed them about two miles in that direction, when
                    coming to a large tract of fallen timber, that crossed their course they turned short to the right,
                    in order to go round it, or find a passage through it. The woods for some distance had been bushy,
                    which prevented us from seeing them sooner, but near the fallen timber the woods were open. When we
                    came to the turn they had made, we discovered them about sixty yards distant. There were four of
                    them with one horse laden with skins, on which an Indian was riding. Two walked next to him, the
                    prisoner behind, and one brought up the rear. They had taken the prisoner's shirt from him,
                    and given him a calico shirt in its place. He was bare-headed, having his own big coat wrapped up
                    small, hoppised on his back, with his bottle in it; although the Indians had drank out his whiskey,
                    he was careful of his bottle. The instant we saw them, they were alarmed, and started on the run.
                    The one behind the prisoner, jumped before him, all running towards the fallen timber, with the
                    prisoner after them. John Hughey fired at the Indian on the horse, who either jumped off or fell
                    off, and made his escape by running in the fallen timber, which was near him, and grew thick with
                    weeds and pea-vine. He left a first-rate new rifle gun, laying, by which we knew that he was badly
                    wounded, as an Indian will never leave his gun, so long as he is able to carry it off. We supposed
                    that the prisoner was an Indian, on account of his running off from us, and because he wore a calico
                    shirt. My brother Laban shot at him, but his  gun making slow
                    fire, he missed him, but hit his big coat, which had turned under his arm, cutting sixteen holes in
                    it, and breaking his bottle in many pieces.
            At that instant an uncommon incident occurred. Some cried out, "Shoot him;" some
                    "don't Shoot, let us take him prisoner." On hearing this, he knew that we
                    were white men, and turned, running to meet us, hallooing, "Oh my wagon, my
                    wagon;" which he supposed to be the best countersign he could give as he knew his life was
                    in danger. So he was released from captivity. We asked him why he had run from us, he replied, that
                    he had not thought it possible, that white men could be there in such a short space of time but
                    that, he took us for another party of Indians, who were at war with those who had taken him; and
                    thought it best to stay with those who had him already.
            We took the horse, pack of skins and gun; and returned to the 
                        Ohio
                    , which we recrossed in our boat. That night we encamped on the knobs of Locust creek,
                    and the next day arrived at home. As the horse belonged to the prisoner, we gave it up to him, and
                    he went on his way rejoicing. The pack of skins and gun fell to us for our trouble.
            
               If, when that young man had been taken prisoner, the news had not soon been taken
                    to 
                        Washington
                    , and then to me; if, I had not hastily raised men; if there had not been a boat at Lee's creek station; if we had not
                    pursued them rapidly; if, we had not taken the right trail each time they
                    separated; the man would not have been released from Captivity. And then, if, my
                    brother's gun had not made slow fire; if, there had not been a division
                    about taking him, or killing him; if, we had all fired on him, he would surely
                    have been killed. Some may think it all an accident, and indeed it does look like an accident. But
                    my friends, when we rightly consider, that with the Lord there is nothing accidental, for, although
                    the savages were permitted to take him, yet they were not permitted to keep [him]. So it was not
                    possible, that there were any ifs in the case.
            The first of June, Kentucky becoming a state, all commissions from the government of 
                        Virginia
                    , became null.
            Sometime in November, I was elected captain again, and received my commission from the Governor of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and on the 9th of January 1793 I was sworn into office by John Wilson a Justice of the
                    Peace.
            
            Some time in the summer of this year, my brother Laban and myself, were appointed to view a road from 
                        German
                    -town to Licking River, opposite the mouth of Beaver Creek, to intersect a road from
                    that place to 
                        Georgetown
                    . Also to measu[re] it, and mark the mile trees. We found it nineteen miles and a half,
                    at that time all the way through the woods. We found a good way for a road, which was some time
                    after cut out, and it has been for a long time a public road.
            About this time, as near as I can recollect, William McGinnis, who lived half a mile from 
                        Washington
                    , was shot down by the Indians, as he was standing in his yard between sunset and dark;
                    but they did not venture to scalp him.
            Sometime in the fall of this year, Tobias Woods, Henry Woods, Absalom Craig, and Fielding Fagan; set
                    out to hunt on Locust creek. On their return home, they came to a fine spring that broke out at the
                    foot of a bluff about ten feet high. They encamped there, and set out to take an evening hunt. When
                    they came in at night, one of them said, that Laban Records was in the woods, for he had heard him
                    laugh. But as none of them knew of his being out, Tobias was somewhat alarmed, thinking there might
                    be Indians about. About two hours before day, he said as he had no horse with him, he would set off
                    and hunt home. At daylight Fagan went to his horse and began to unhobble him and Henry went to the
                    spring. The Indians, who it appeared had fell on their trail, and followed them to their camp,
                    laying in ambush behind a log on the bluff, where they had slipped up to after night; at this
                    conjuncture, fired on them killing Henry at the spring, and wounding Craig in the hip. Fagan made
                    his escape and ran home. I raised five or six men & went with Fagan to the place. Woods lay
                    at the spring, shot and scalped, Craig likewise lay at the camp, tomahawked and scalped. As Fagan
                    said, that he saw him running about fifty yards from the camp, but being shot in the hip, not being
                    able to escape; we knew that he was overtaken, brought back to the camp and there slain. We saw
                    where the Indians had lain behind the log, and left a deer skin. We cut a blue-ash sapling and split
                    it. Of this we made shovels, dug up the ground with our tomahawks, and threw out the dirt with our
                    shovels, digging a grave sufficient to keep the wolves from them. In this we laid the bodies, spread
                    a blanket over them and covered them up.
            
            These were the last persons slain by the Indians, in our part of the country.
            I have mentioned a number of times that the Indians stole horses, and perhaps there were a number
                    that I have no recollection of at this time, as it was so long ago.
            In the year 1795 peace was made with the Indians,38 when I resigned my
                    commission.
            In August, I set off for Pennsylvania in a canoe, in company with my brother Laban, William Blackmore
                    and Daniel Fink. At the mouth of the Great Kenhawa, we left our canoe and traveled by land. From the
                    mouth of the Great Kenhawa to Belville, the Ohio river is very crooked, making
                    it sixty miles by water. We steered through the woods, being directed by Colonel Lewis, and arrived
                    at Belville at night, and on the next, at the mouth of Little Kenhawa. Next morning we took the road
                    to 
                        Clarksburg
                     on the west fork of Monongahela, upon the east bank of the river. This is the seat of
                    justice for 
                        Harrison County
                        Virginia
                    . Forty miles lower down the river, stands Morgantown the county seat of Monongahela
                    county. On the east side, eight miles below Morgantown, Cheat river unites with the Monongahela by a
                    mouth, two hundred yards broad. This river has its source in the Greenbrier mountain, and runs
                    north, through a part of 
                        Randolph
                     and Pocahontas counties.
            Having descended the river to 
                        Brownsville
                    , we returned home down the Ohio in a boat.
            The following August, I set off for Pennsylvania again, in company with Robert Ellrod. We kept up the
                    Ohio by land, and found some difficulty in travelling, having very often to ride up creeks, some
                    distance in order to get above back water. At the mouth of Big Sandy, I was near getting drowned, by
                    attempting to ford it at its mouth. The depth of the water was about three feet, but the depth of
                    the quick sand we could not tell as we found no bottom. We got about half way over it, but there was
                    no chance of crossing it, as it still got worse. With much difficulty, we got out at the side we
                    went in at, 
                  
                     38 This is doubtless a reference to the important Treaty of 
                                Greenville
                            , 1795, which followed General Anthony 
                                Wayne
                            's defeat of the Indians at Fallen Timbers, August, 1794. After the 
                                Greenville
                             treaty there was much less conflict between Indians and settlers in the Ohio
                            Valley until the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , November, 1811, which in turn was soon succeeded by the War of 1812.
               
                     and proceeded up the river about two miles, where we found a
                    good ford with a rocky bottom, and crossed over in safety.
            We arrived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , about the last of the month. Some time in October, Zanes who had been employed by the 
                        United States
                    , to view and cut out a bridle path from 
                        Wheeling
                     to 
                        Chillicothe
                    ;39 being at work thereon; we in company with two other men, took
                    that road, and came up with them about ten miles from 
                        Chillicothe
                    . We then steered through the woods to that place, and thence reached home, after an
                    absence of sixty days. We were the first persons that ever traveled that road.
            1800 June 23d. I sold my plantation in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and in August myself and wife set off for 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . We followed Zanes' road and arrived there about the first of September.
                    Shortly after our arrival, we both took the fever and ague, and both had hard shakes every day. Not
                    being able to ride home, we took a passage in a boat laden with apples and cider, bound to
                    Limestone. The river was so low, that we were sixty days on it, and each of us had a hard shake
                    every [day]. When we landed, we were hardly able to ride home, and had the ague almost the whole
                    winter; I had more than one hundred hard shakes, without missing one day, and many afterwards.40
            
            In March 1801, I moved to the State of 
                        Ohio
                    , and settled in Ross County on Sunfish creek, where I had previously bought land.41 I there built a grist and saw-mills.
            1803. I was appointed with two other men to view a road from New market to the Scioto salt works.
                    Forty miles of it, at that time was through the woods. The other men 
                  
                     39 Colonel Ebenezer Zane cut a road known as Zane's Trace
                            from the Ohio at 
                                Wheeling
                             to the Ohio at Maysville, via the present towns of 
                        Zanesville, Lancaster
                     , and 
                                Chillicothe
                            . Clark, Frontier America, 341.
                  
                     40 "There were varieties of ague—dumb ague,
                            shaking ague, chill fever, and so forth. Some had the combined chills and fever each day, or
                            on alternate days, or even every third day; others had the chills one day and the fever the
                            next…. Work schedules were planned to accommodate the fits. The justice arranged
                            the docket to avoid the sick day of the litigant, the minister made his appointments in
                            keeping with his shakes, the housewife and traveler planned accordingly, and even the
                            sparking swain reckoned the ‘ager’ schedule of self and
                            intended." R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1950), I, 245.
                  
                     41 Ross County, 
                                Ohio
                            , was and is located in south-central Ohio astride the Scioto River. 
                                Chillicothe
                             is now its county seat. Records had probably visited this area during his
                            participation in raids against the Indians heretofore mentioned in his narrative.
               
                     not being woodsmen, it fell on me to lead; we found a good way
                    for a road, which was some time after cut out and [be] came a public road.
            1804. I was solicited to be candidate for captain, to which I objected: however as I did not attend
                    the election, I was run in, and received my commission from the Governor of 
                        Ohio
                     [presumably Edward 
                        Tiffin
                    ], which I returned to General Mossie [Nathaniel Massie], letting him know, that it did
                    not suit me to serve.
            1805. I bought land on the we[s]t fork of Brush creek, in 
                        Adams County
                    , now 
                        Brown
                    , and in April moved and settled on it, and there built a grist mill.42
            
            In the year 1821, I sold my plantation in 
                        Ohio
                    , and moved to the State of Indiana, where I settled in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , six miles north of 
                        Columbus
                    .43 Here we suffered a great deal from sickness and lost four of our
                    Children. 1833 was the last year, that I was able to farm my plantation. I then rented it for three
                    years. The rent was sufficient to support us, but we were neither of us able to do the work, which
                    was required to be done; and as our children were all married, and left us, they advised us to break
                    up housekeeping and live with some of them. This I was reluctant to do, but as there seemed to be no
                    alternative, about the last of November 1836, we went to live with our son-in-law Tunis Quick, and
                    our daughter Susannah, with whom we still reside [probably 1842].44
            
            We have had thirteen living children, & one still-born. We have had eighty-seven
                    grand-children, but twenty one 
                  
                     42 Adams and 
                                Brown
                             are adjoining counties which border on the Ohio River,
                            immediately opposite Maysville (Limestone), 
                                Kentucky
                            . This move in 1805 brought Records close to his former residence near
                                    
                        Washington, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     43 Brant and Fuller (pubs.), History of 
                                    Bartholomew County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888), 373, list 
                                Spencer
                             Records among those, "who came in 1821 and entered
                            land…." Brant and Fuller, p. 373, also include "Labon Records
                            [and] William P. Records," perhaps sons of 
                                Spencer
                             Records, among persons who entered land in 
                                Bartholomew County
                             in 1820. The part of 
                                Bartholomew County
                             in which 
                                Spencer
                             Records settled was not freed of Indian title until the New Purchase Treaty of
                            1818; the county was not organized until 1821 when 
                                Columbus
                             was made its county seat.
                  
                     44 Brant and Fuller, History of 
                                    Bartholomew County
                                , Indiana, 734, state that Tunis Quick was a native of 
                                Virginia
                            , born in 1797. and that he arrived in Indiana with his parents in 1819 after
                            several years in 
                                Ohio
                            . Quick held various local offices, and he also served two terms in the lower
                            house of the Indiana General Assembly during the 1830's.
               
                     have departed this life. We have had seven great grandchildren,
                    two of whom have departed this life.
            I will now give the names of our children, the dates of their births, marriages and deaths.
            Josiah was born on the tenth day of April 1791, and married Mary Alexander on the eighth day of April
                    1813.
            John was born on the sixth day of July 1793, and married Rachel Bayley on the twenty-eighth day of
                    March 1817.
            James was born on the 25th day of July 1795, and married Elizabeth Heaton on the 23d day of October
                    1820, and departed this life on the 23d day of September 1823.
            Hannah was born the fourteenth day of July 1797, and married John Wilson on the twenty ninth day of
                    December 1814.
            Laban was born on the sixth day of September 1799, and married Hannah Bradley, his first wife on the
                    nineteenth day of September 1822, and married his second wife Elizabeth Ann Barnet on the twenty
                    fourth day of February 1825.
            William was born on the twenty third day of November 1801, and married Elsie Harvey on the 17th day
                    of March [1826].
            Mary was born on the twentieth day of December 1803, and married James Brich on the second day of
                    July 1822, and departed this life on the 17th day of October 1823.
            Susannah was born on the twenty third day of November 1805, and married Tunis Quick on the third day
                    of September 1823.
            Matilda was born on the 12th day of October 1808, and married Josiah Hendrickson on the 13th day of
                    August 1833.
            Rachel was born on the 27th day of December 1810, and married M#2 J. Nelson on the 16th day of
                    December 1830.
            Elizabeth was born on the twenty fourth day of May 1813, and departed this life on the 18th day of
                    October 1823.
            Lucinda was born on the fourth day of June 1815, and married James Barnet on the 13th day of August
                    1833.
            Lucy was born on the 4th day of June 1818 and departed this life on the 10th day of August 1827.
            My father departed this life in June 1809, and was buried in his own orchard, aged sixty-seven years.
            
            My mother departed this life at her daughter's Elizabeth Hughey in May 1824 and was buried
                    by the side of my father aged eighty one years.
            My father and mother had twelve living children, and one still-born, of which I was the first-born.
                    Their names were 
                        Spencer
                    , Nicy, Laban, Joseph, Ann, John, Elizabeth, Josiah, Sarah, Mary, Susannah, and William;
                    who have all departed this life except myself, John and William.
            Appendix No. 1.
            In 1778, General [Lachlan] McIntosh marched an army into the Indian country and built a fort just
                    below the mouth of Big Beaver creek, thirty miles below 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , which he called Fort McIntosh. This fort was located on the same ground where the town
                    of Beaver now stands.45 The same winter, my father received public money to
                    purchase grain, to take into his mill for the use of the army. A great many beef cattle, were taken
                    over the Ohio and left on Racoon creek to shift for themselves, but as the snow lay on the ground
                    all winter, they all died. I saw some of their hides taken to my father's mill. In the
                    spring he disbanded the army & went no further. There was also a block-house about halfway
                    between Fort Pitt and Fort McIntosh, where men were stationed in time of the war.
            [Appendix] No. 2.
            As I have mentioned forts and forting, I will for the information of those that never saw a stockade
                    fort, describe one, and lay down a plat thereof. In the first place the ground is cleared off the
                    size they intend to build the fort, which was an oblong square, See plat fig. 1. Then a ditch was
                    dug three feet deep, the dirt being thrown out on the inside of the fort. Logs, twelve or fifteen
                    inches in diameter and fifteen feet long, were cut, and split open. The top ends were sharpened, the
                    butts set in the ditch with the flat sides all in, and the cracks broke with the flat sides of
                    others. The dirt was then thrown into the ditch and well rammed down. Port holes were made high
                    enough that if a ball should 
                  
                     45 McIntosh's expedition in 1778 and the establishment of
                            Fort McIntosh are discussed in Buck and Buck, The Planting of Civilization in
                                Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 190–192, and in Downes, Council Fires on the
                                Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 212–218.
               
                     be shot in, it would pass overhead. The cabins were built far
                    enough from the stockades to have plenty of room to load and shoot. Two bastions were constructed at
                    opposite corners (2 & 3) with port holes about eighteen inches from the ground. The use of
                    these bastions was, to rake the two sides of the fort, should the Indians get close up to the
                    stockades, so that they could not shoot them from the port holes in the sides. Two gateways were
                    made fronting each other (4 & 5), with strong gates and bars so that they could not be
                    forced open. Some forts had a bastion at each corner.46
            
            
            Some forts, sometimes called Stations, were built with cabins all set close together, half-faced, or
                    the roof all sloping one way with high side out, raised eight feet high, and overlaid with split
                    logs. The upper story was over-jutted two feet, and raised high enough to have plenty of room to
                    load & shoot, with port-holes both above and below. The use of the over-jut was to prevent
                    the Indians from climbing up, should they get close to the wall, and from it they could shoot down
                    on them. Such was Bryant's Station.47
            
            
               
                  46 The sketch reproduced on this page appears at this point in the
                        manuscript of the Records memoir.
               
                  47 For a sketch of Bryant's Station, see Connelly and Coulter,
                            History of 
                                Kentucky
                            , I, 201.
            
            
            [Appendix] No. 3.
            Some time after Braddock's defeat, while the Indians were murdering and committing their
                    cruel depredations on the frontier settlements of 
                        Virginia
                    ; two girls, sisters of the name of Barnett, the youngest six years old, and the elder
                    some years older, were taken prisoners by the Indians. The oldest soon became reconciled to stay
                    with them, and some time after married one of them. The younger although but six years of age, never
                    could be reconciled to stay with them; she never forgot the white people, her own name, and the name
                    of the place she was taken from, but thought that if ever an opportunity offered she would try to
                    make her escape and get home. After having been a prisoner twelve years, she being then eighteen
                    years of age, and there being peace at that time with the white people, she thought she would try
                    & make her escape to Fort Pitt now 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ; where the Indians often traded. But no good opportunity offered as they never took her
                    near there. However, one morning it was impressed on her to leave them, and an opportunity occuring
                    so that she could slip off undiscovered, she hoppised her blanket on her back and took the course
                    she saw the Indians take when they went to Fort Pitt. She travelled all day, and when night came she
                    looked round for a sapling that had forks and limbs, so that she could sit thereon being afraid of
                    the wolves. She thought that she could tie herself with her hoppes string, so that if she fell
                    asleep she would not fall. She was not able to find one that answered her purpose, till it began to
                    get dark; she then saw at a distance before her the light of a fire. Going up to it she found an old
                    Indian man and his squaw, who were on their way to Fort Pitt. The old man received her kindly,
                    supplied her with provision and conducted her safely to Fort Pitt. She was then among her own
                    people, who gave her clothes, and dressed her like other white women, and assisted her so that she
                    arrived safely at home. Shortly after her arrival, she gave a Christian experience to a Regular
                    Baptist Church, was received and baptized. Some time afterwards she married Thomas Cummins and lived
                    a near neighbor to my father, about fourteen miles from Fort Pitt.
            In 1774 Dunmore, Governor of Virginia marched an army into the Indian country and held a treaty with
                    them.  They promised to bring in all the prisoners they had into
                    Fort Pitt; which they did next spring. They brought in Susannah Cummins' sister. Cummins
                    went to Fort Pitt and took her home, where she stayed a few days, but not being reconciled to stay,
                    Cummins took her back to Fort Pitt, and she went off with the Indians.
            I have made a remark on this circumstance, which will probably not be concurred in by many. However
                    let that be as it may. I have ventured to make it. Although the Lord did permit the Indians to take
                    her, it was not his will that she should be reconciled to stay with them. But when his own appointed
                    time came, he impressed on her mind to start the day she did. If she had started the day before, or
                    the day after, she would not have met with the old man at night, she might have missed her way,
                    wandered through the woods and perished. But that could not possibly be the case. The Lord not only
                    impressed on her to start, but caused the Indians to give her an opportunity to make her escape, and
                    directed her way so, that she should meet with the old man at night, caused him to receive her
                    kindly, and conducted her safely to Fort Pitt. Perhaps some may say what an accident it was she ever
                    got home. If any of you think so, you are very much mistaken, there was no accident in it. Some may
                    ask this question and say Why did the Lord have more compassion on her than on her sister? Should
                    any of you ask that question, I will ask you, why did the Lord choose the Children of 
                        Israel
                     from among all the nations of the earth, and give them his laws, commandments and
                    statutes; leaving all the other nations in heathenish idolatry? I could answer your question I think
                    correctly, but if I did you might say I was too much of a predestinarian for you; yes, and so are
                    the apostles and prophets.
            As to my political principles, I am a true whig, the sin of loco-focoism, I have never been guilty
                    of.
            In my religious principles, I am a Regular Baptist; having believed in that doctrine for more than
                    fifty years. At this time, myself and wife, both belong to the Lewis' creek church of
                    Regular Baptists.
            Notwithstanding I believe that the Evangelical doctrine, is neither preached nor believed by any
                    denomination on earth, except the Regular Baptist, yet I would not have you to understand, that I
                    think none will be saved but the Regular Baptists.  No, I
                    believe the Lord has a people among other denominations that he will save, but not according to
                    their Arminian principles, which are Antichristian, and always stand opposed to free grace. But all
                    that have been quickened by the Spirit and brought from death unto life, will be saved of every
                    sect, or if belonging to none.
            Josiah departed this life on monday the 22th day of May 1848 aged 56 years one month and twelve
                        days.48
            
            his wife Mary departed this life on monday the 22sd day august two months after him.
            1849 my wife and myself have lived together a going on sixty years since the 15th of last april.
            I am in my eighty-seventh year since the eleventh day of december last.
            
               
                  48 This entry and the three which follow were obviously added after 1842;
                            possibly all four were added in 1849.
            
         
         
         
         
            Reading 
                        Lincoln
                    's Mail
            
                    Robert G. Gunderson
                    *
                
            On the evening of February 6, 1861, the "political elite" of Illinois and the
                    "beauty and fashion" of Sangamon County crowded into the plain frame house at the
                    northeast corner of Eighth and 
                        Jackson
                     streets in 
                        Springfield
                    . Horace Greeley's 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune called the gathering "a brilliant affair," though
                    perhaps it used the term elite a bit loosely. Several hundred neighbors crossed
                    the black walnut threshold that night to say good-by to Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    .1 According to one account, "‘it took twenty
                    minutes to get in the hall door….’"2 Robert Todd 
                        Lincoln
                    , an eighteen-year-old 
                        Harvard
                     student, facetiously titled the "Prince of Rails," functioned as an
                    usher, but had little success in hurrying friends past his father who insisted upon responding to
                    each handshake with an anecdote. Next morning, the 
                        Lincoln
                     family moved to the Chenery House, 
                        Springfield
                    's leading hotel, and four days later they set out for 
                        Washington
                    .3
            
            Before leaving, however, 
                        Lincoln
                     and his secretary, John Nicolay, collected the accumulated papers of the 
                        Prairie
                     Years. They stuffed lectures and literary essays into an old carpetbag and turned it
                    over to Cousin Elizabeth Todd Grimsley for safekeeping. Legal papers were left with William H.
                    Herndon, 
                        Lincoln
                    's partner, in their second floor office at 109 North Fifth Street. Political
                    correspondence was bundled up and put abroad the train for 
                        Washington
                    , where it would be needed in the troublesome months to come.4 Henry
                    Villard, a reporter for the hostile 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald, complained of its volume. "‘Baskets full of petitions
                    and recommendations’" arrived with each mail, and neither Mr. Lincoln nor his
                    secretary was "‘equal to the task’" of
                    "‘answering a hundred or so letters every day.’" With
                    obvious 
                  
                     * Robert G. Gunderson is professor of speech and theatre at
                            Indiana University and is the author of The Log-Cabin Campaign (1957). He
                            has recently completed a manuscript on the 
                                Washington
                             Peace Conference of 1861.
                  
                     1
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, February 7, 1861.
                  
                     2 David C. Mearns (ed.), The 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Papers (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            . 1948), I, 9.
                  
                     3
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, February 9 and 12, 1861.
                  
                     4 Mearns, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Papers, I, 28–29, 37.
               
                     sarcasm, Villard advised office-seekers to
                    "‘get their papers ready and station themselves at some convenient
                    point’" on 
                        Lincoln
                    's route to 
                        Washington
                    . A box for the "deposit of such communications," he thought, might
                    properly be "attached to the presidential train."5
            
            When the 
                        Lincoln
                     party had successfully negotiated its circuitous route to 
                        Washington
                    , temporary offices were set up in Parlor Six at Willard's Hotel. For ten days,
                    office-seekers and well-wishers all but prevented the disposition of any but the most urgent
                    correspondence. With the inauguration, Nicolay and his assistant secretary, John Hay, moved into
                    more spacious quarters in the White House. In an "‘historic
                    cavern’" across from their second floor bedroom in the northeast corner, they
                    presided at what William O. Stoddard, another assistant secretary, described rather tritely as the
                    "'nerve center'" of the Republic.6 Lacking
                    an IBM filing system, they arranged the presidential mail in a small pigeonhole cabinet. Sections
                    were marked alphabetically, each cabinet member having a pigeonhole of his own. There was also one
                    for Horace Greeley, editor of the crusading 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune,
               7 "a man much given to reading and cold-water
                    baths"—to say nothing of impertinent advice.8
            
            President 
                        Lincoln
                     received from two to three hundred letters each day, and Stoddard testified that some
                    of them went into the two huge wicker wastebaskets which flanked the sorting table. A later
                    assistant, Noah Brooks, however, recalled "‘a Chinese reverence
                    for…written paper….’" Hay guessed that 
                        Lincoln
                     read only one letter in fifty; Nicolay estimated only one in a hundred. In answering
                    his mail, the harried President rarely dictated, but instead made short endorsements suggesting
                    appropriate replies. Important letters he answered himself in longhand, often doggedly spelling out
                    the copy as well as the original.9 Since the White House office was unscreened,
                    bugs swarmed in on hot summer nights, and their embalmed bodies remain congealed on some of the most
                    important documents of the war years.
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., I, 36–37.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., I, 40.
               
                  7 Benjamin P. Thomas, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            : A Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1952), 466.
               
                  8 James Parton, The Life of Horace Greeley: Editor of the 
                                New York
                             Tribune (
                            New York
                        , 1855), 151.
               
                  9 Mearns, 
                     
                                Lincoln
                             Papers, I, 38–41.
            
            
            Today this correspondence is deposited at the Library of Congress in the Robert Todd 
                        Lincoln
                     Collection. Eight trunks were once needed to hold the 18,350 items, which are now
                    arranged chronologically and bound in 194 volumes of gilt-lettered buckram. Before binding,
                    specialists at the library "cleaned, repaired, and reinforced" each manuscript, in
                    addition to preparing 4,000 cross reference cards and a catalogue description for every item. A
                    microfilm edition of 50,000 exposures, available in 21 major American libraries, safeguards for
                    posterity the contents of the original documents and provides scholars convenient access to this
                    significant research material.10 Not counting endorsements, some 900 papers are
                    in the Rail Splitter's distinctive hand and include copies of his letters to others, drafts
                    of speeches, proclamations, and official messages. The great bulk of the collection, however,
                    consists of 
                        Lincoln
                    's mail—letters written to him. A mere sampling has been published
                    in a two-volume edition by David C. Mearns, chief of the Manuscripts Division of the Library of
                    Congress, with several introductory chapters telling the story of the collection.
            A controversy still continues over how many of the documents may have been destroyed by Robert 
                        Lincoln
                     before he deposited them in the library,11 but at least these
                    documents fared better than those turned over to Cousin Lizzie Grimsley. A careless maid, it seems,
                    mistook the contents of Old Abe's carpetbag for trash—and burned his literary
                    efforts of the 
                        Prairie
                     Years.12
            
            Of course not all the 
                        Lincoln
                     correspondence is in the Library of Congress collection. At the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Foundation in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, for example, there are 186 letters which somehow escaped from the
                    presidential files;13 another 135 are at the Henry E. Huntington Library in
                            
                  San Marino, California
               .14 The letters which 
                        Lincoln
                     wrote 
                  
                     10 Catalogue description, Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress.
                  
                     11 Mearns, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Papers, I, 120–134.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., I, 28.
                  
                     13 R. Gerald McMurtry, Director, The 
                                Lincoln
                             National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., to the author, July 8, 1957; 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Lore, No. 1429 (March, 1957), 2–3; No. 1430 (April, 1957),
                            3–4; No. 1432 (June, 1957), 2–3. 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Lore is a short bulletin published by the 
                                Lincoln
                             National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind.
                  
                     14 Norma Cuthbert, Department of Manuscripts, Henry E. Hunting-ton
                            Library, to the author, July 3, 1957.
               
                     to others are more widely scattered than those he received.
                    When Roy P. Basler compiled the recent nine-volume edition of all 
                        Lincoln
                    's extant writing, including public utterances, he found it necessary to give
                    credit to 101 public collections and innumerable private ones.15 Over 1,200
                    manuscripts in 
                        Lincoln
                    's handwriting are available at the Illinois State Historical Society Library
                    in 
                        Springfield
                    ;16 there are 865 at 
                        Brown
                     University;17 226 at 
                        Huntington
                    ;18 50 at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ;19 and 5 at the William L. Clements Library in
                            
                  Ann Arbor, Michigan
               .20 Important manuscript materials about 
                        Lincoln
                     are located in the papers of William H. Herndon and Jesse Weik at the Library of
                    Congress, in those of Ida M. Tarbell at Allegheny College, and in the papers of William E. Barton at
                    the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Indiana University has 4,600 
                        Lincoln
                     books and pamphlets, a microfilm edition of the Herndon-Weik Papers, 15 autographed
                    letters, and the J. B. Oakleaf Collection, especially valuable for its campaign materials on the
                    elections of 1860 and 1864.21
            
            In reading 
                        Lincoln
                    's mail—or what is left of it—one finds, as Henry Villard
                    observed in 1860, "‘a most abundant source of knowledge [offered] to the student
                    of human nature.’"22 Of the 186 letters to Old Abe at the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Foundation, every one contains a request. All but seven sought government
                    jobs—the remainder asked for pardons, furloughs, releases from the army.23 A poorly paid professor of Greek wanted any office in 
                        Lincoln
                    's "‘power to bestow.’"24 An "ornamental gardener" from 
                  Rockford, Illinois
               ,
                    applied for the honor of taking care of the White 
                  
                     15 Roy P. Basler (ed.), The Collected Works of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (9 vols., 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1953–1955), I, xx-xxiii.
                  
                     16
                            Illinois Libraries, XL (April, 1958), 313.
                  
                     17 Mrs. Alex Kacen, Special Collections, John Hay Library, 
                                Brown
                             University, 
                                Providence
                            , R.I., to the author, October 14, 1959.
                  
                     18 Norma Cuthbert to the author, July 3, 1957.
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Lore, No. 1414 (May 14, 1956); The 
                                    Lincoln
                                 National Life Foundation (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., n.d.), 6.
                  
                     20 William S. Ewing, Curator of Manuscripts, William L. Clements
                            Library, to the author, July 2, 1957.
                  
                     21 For a description, see Cecil K. Byrd, "The Indiana-Oakleaf
                            Collection," The Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Quarterly, II (December, 1942), 186–191.
                  
                     22 Quoted in Mearns, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Papers, I, 35.
                  
                     23
                            
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Lore, No. 1429 (March, 1957), 2–3; No. 1430 (April, 1957),
                            3–4; No. 1432 (June, 1957), 2–3.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., No. 1429 (March, 1957), 8.
               
                     House grounds; a chef in 
                        St. Louis
                     wanted work as the White House cook; a twenty-year-old orphan girl from 
                        New Jersey
                    , whose brother voted a straight Republican ticket, asked to be governess to 
                        Lincoln
                    's children. A self-described "party wheelhorse for the past seventeen
                    years" at last wanted something in return because of the "shattered
                    Situation" of his health. Since he was too sick to do anything else, this loyal partisan
                    hoped to be 
                        United States
                     Marshal for western 
                        Illinois
                    . A distant Indiana relative announced she was visiting at the White House
                    "with or without an invitation." In urging her husband for the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, Mrs. O. H. Browning described Indiana as "that horse leech
                    State" whose politicians were "always crying, Give! Give!"25
            
            Some correspondents unashamedly asked the President for money. An Italian countess begged him to take
                    up a twelve-hundred-dollar mortgage on her Rahway, 
                        New Jersey
                    , villa. A devoted but unduly belligerent partisan expected him to pay a fifty-dollar
                    fine levied for damages in a brawl which developed over his defense of 
                        Lincoln
                    's ancestry.26
            
            The War President's legendary generosity toward soldiers in trouble is confirmed by his
                    correspondence. A tearful young lady of 
                        Washington County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , begged him to furlough an amorous private in the First Division of the Second Army
                    Corps. "‘We very foolishly indulged too freely in matrimonial
                    affairs,’" the forthright belle confided to her sweetheart's
                    commander-in-chief. A cryptic note in the Emancipator's painstaking hand directed the
                    secretary of war to "‘send him to her by all means.’" A War
                    Department endorsement read, "‘Furlough granted.’"27
            
            Since citizens apparently felt free to divulge their most intimate thoughts to the President, it is
                    not surprising to find them equally free in contributing advice. Dr. Henry P. Tappan, president of
                    the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , once penned fifteen pages of gratuitous instruction, dispatching it in the care of
                    Judge David Davis to make certain of its delivery. Davis' somewhat condescending
                    endorsement explained that the letter was "‘an elaborate
                    one,’" but the Judge hoped 
                        Lincoln
                     would read it because of "‘the Christian character 
                  
                     25 Requests in the Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     27
                            
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Lore, No. 1430 (April, 1957), 4.
               
                     of the author.’" Upon its receipt, the
                    President asked Nicolay to "‘please run over this & tell me what is in
                        it.’"28
            
            Cranks and crackpots freely communicated their hallucinations. A self-proclaimed prophet in Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , "calculated 
                        Lincoln
                    's nativity" and predicted "a most serious
                    disaster." A spiritualist in 
                        Cleveland
                     warned of poison, advising "hot milk in large quanties" on the
                    slightest indisposition. A dissatisfied housewife from Logan County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , implored: "Dear Sir, give us women some assurance that you
                    will protect us, for we are the greatest slaves in the South."29
            
            Although Alexander H. Stephens replied quite graciously in December, 1860, to 
                        Lincoln
                    's request for his famous speech in behalf of the Union, most mail postmarked
                    south of the Ohio contained threats and indignities. A Bell-Everett elector from Virginia urged the
                    President-elect to gain immortality by going to 
                        Charleston
                     in disguise. There, he should resign in a dramatic gesture for peace. Letters from
                            
                  Lebanon, Tennessee
               ; Lynchburg, 
                        Virginia
                    ; and 
                  Marion, Alabama
               , warned to resign or be shot! "A 
                        Jackson
                     Democrat from the South" phrased it less bluntly. "Beware,"
                    he wrote in a letter full of misspelling, "Beware the Ides of March."30
            
            With the threatening letters came others promising protection. The adjutant-general of Michigan
                    placed a regiment at 
                        Lincoln
                    's disposal even before the inauguration. When Sumter was fired upon, 
                        Michigan
                    's indefatigable Henry Tappan offered to march to 
                        Washington
                     at the head of his entire male student body.31
            
            Not all alarmists were mere cranks. Army officers wrote of disloyalty in the service; a 
                        New York
                     banker gave personal evidence to indicate that Major Robert Anderson's
                    "heart was not in his duty" at Fort Sumter; an Illinois congressman told of hiring
                    "two of the most accomplished 
                        New York
                     detectives" to trail those who plotted against the government; the secretary
                    of the Illinois Republican State Central Committee reported the widely-publicized rumor which placed
                    $40,000 on 
                        Lincoln
                    's head. On New Year's Eve of 1861, the editor of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune began what perhaps has become 
                  
                     28 Thomas, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 465–466.
                  
                     29 Letters in the Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                            30
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            31
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     a tradition when he proclaimed himself "a volunteer
                    sentinel on the walls" of 
                        Washington
                    .32
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's mail is thus obviously an abundant source of amazement and
                    amusement—if not always of enlightenment—to the student of human nature. His
                    papers likewise can be used to illustrate his career as a speaker. Ward Hill Lamon, an intimate of 
                        Lincoln
                    's circuit-riding days and later his bodyguard and biographer, said
                    Abe's "taste for public speaking appeared to be natural and
                        irresistible."33 The first manuscript item in the Robert Todd 
                        Lincoln
                     Collection is a deposition by Dr. John Allen, a 
                        New Salem
                     neighbor, who recalled that young Abe "used to walk 6 miles" to
                    "practice polemics" before a Sangamon County debating society. The
                    "polemics," explained the doctor, sometimes equaled "the best farces
                    played in the theatre."
            In 1840 the one-time Rail Splitter dressed in blue jeans to stump Illinois for William Henry Harrison
                    in the log-cabin and hard-cider canvass. His high-pitched voice was not uncharacteristic of
                    westerners, and it had the merit of extraordinary intensity. Nor did his awkward manner preclude him
                    from mimicking his opponents in such a manner that delighted crowds "cheered and yelled for
                        more."34 William H. Herndon testified that 
                        Lincoln
                     "read less and thought more than any man in America."35 Certainly his speeches of this period rely but little on book learning. In an
                    appearance at Belleville, Abe "‘predicated his whole
                    speech’" upon an inconsequential incident. "‘How very
                    fortunate for the Whigs,’" taunted the local Democratic editor,
                    "‘that Mr. Lincoln saw the sale of…[a] one-eyed horse that day
                        I’"36
            
            The rough-and-tumble politics of the forties occasionally led to physical as well as verbal combat.
                    Among 
                        Lincoln
                    's papers are his instructions for the celebrated duel proposed 
                  
                            32
                            Ibid
                        
                  
                     33 Paul M. Angle (ed.), The 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Reader (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1947), 26.
                  
                     34 Mildred Berry, "Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            : His Development in the Skills of the Platform," A
                                History and Criticism of American Public Address, ed. William Norwood Brigance (2
                            vols.. 
                                New York
                            , 1943), II, 849, 853–854.
                  
                     35 Benjamin P. Thomas, Portrait for Posterity: 
                                    Lincoln
                                 and His Biographers (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1947), 12.
                  
                     36
                            Advocate (Belleville, Ill.), April 18, 1840, quoted in George W. Smith,
                                When 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Came to 
                                    Egypt
                                
                      (Herrin, Ill., 1940), 53.
               
                     by his political adversary, James Shields. With typical
                    frontier hyperbole, the Rail Splitter suggested "cavalry broad swords of the largest size
                    precisely equal in all respects." Perhaps because of Abe's bloody choice of
                    weapons, the encounter never materialized. But from this time on, 
                        Lincoln
                     was always somewhat more circumspect and considerate in his public and private
                        utterances.37
            
            Although seldom if ever did anyone write a public document for 
                        Lincoln
                    , his papers make it clear that he sometimes served as a ghost for others, including the
                    editor of the Sangamo Journal, Governor W. H. Bissell of 
                        Illinois
                    , Senator Lyman Trumbull, and his cabinet members.38 Among his early
                    papers is the copy of a speech on "What Gen. [Zachary] Taylor ought to say" in the
                    presidential canvass of 1848—a contest in which 
                        Lincoln
                     took particular interest.39
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's vivid style and rustic imagery is evident in letters of this period. In
                    urging Herndon to organize a Rough & Ready Club for Old Zach, he suggested that each member
                    should have a function—that some speak, others sing, and that all holler.40 In supporting a "Taylor delegate" to the national Whig convention, he
                    identified his congressional colleague, E. D. Baker, as "a good hand to raise a
                        breeze."41 When the Democrats tried to make Taylor's
                    opponent, 
                        Michigan
                    's Lewis Cass, into a military man, 
                        Lincoln
                     compared them to "‘so many mischievous boys tying a dog to a
                    bladder of beans.’"42
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's manuscript copy of his speech on Cass in the House of Representatives in
                    1848, complete with its deletions and additions, provides a good example of his humor, to say
                    nothing of the vigorous party spirit of that day. After a long 
                  
                     37 [A. 
                                Lincoln
                            ] to Dr. E. H. Merryman [September 19, 1842], Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers; Thomas, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 84.
                  
                     38 James G. Randall, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 the President, Vol. Ill, Midstream (
                                New York
                            , 1952), 441; Mearns, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Papers, I, 139–140; Basler, Collected
                            Works, IV, 141–142; III, 364–365; William H. Herndon and Jesse W.
                            Weik, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                : The True Story of a Great Life (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1909), II, 189.
                  
                     39 Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers, items 142–144.
                  
                     40 Thomas, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , 123.
                  
                     41 A. Lincoln to E. B. Washburne, April 30, 1848, Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                     42 Thomas, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , 124.
               
                     account of the corpulent general's forays into the
                    public treasury, the Illinois Congressman continued with devastating sarcasm: 
                        I have introduced Gen. Cass' accounts here chiefly to show the wonderful physical
                            capacities of the man…. From October 1821 to May 1822, he eat [sic] ten rations a day in 
                                Michigan
                            , ten rations a day here in 
                                Washington
                            , and near five dollars worth a day on the road between the two places
                            !…. Mr. Speaker, we have all heard of the animal standing in doubt between two
                            stacks of hay, and starving to death—The like of that would never happen to Gen.
                            Cass; place the stacks a thousand miles apart, he would stand stock still midway between
                            them, and eat…both at once.43
                  
                     On the basis of such evidence, Benjamin Thomas concludes that "for lucidity of
                    statement and ability to clarify by means of homely analogies…[Abe] had no
                        equal."44
            
            Upon hearing that 
                        Lincoln
                     had been selected as his opponent in 1858, Senator Stephen A. Douglas acknowledged him
                    "‘the strong man of his party—full of wit, facts,
                    dates—and the best stump speaker…in the West.’" with
                    "‘droll ways and dry jokes.’"45 Charles
                    H. Ray of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune wrote the Republican nominee to emphasize the significance of the
                    impending contest: "You have a chance which comes to but few men of each
                    generation," he observed. "You are like Byron, who woke up one morning and found
                    himself famous."46
            
            With fame came political and rhetorical advice from thoroughout the nation. Horace Greeley warned
                    against apology and retreat. He liked the "House Divided" speech, but thought the
                    reply to Douglas on July 10 in 
                        Chicago
                     bad.47 Radicals everywhere applauded 
                        Lincoln
                    's use of biblical analogy and urged an aggressive spirit. "Pitch into
                    [Douglas']…motives," advised one stalwart partisan. "You are
                    justified now in unsheathing the sword & throwing the scabbard away." Henry Clay
                    Whitney, one of 
                        Lincoln
                    's circuit-riding 
                  
                     43 Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers, items 145–163.
                  
                     44 Thomas, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 99.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 182.
                  
                     46 Charles H. Ray to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , July 27, 1858, Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                     47 [Horace Greeley] to "My Friend" [J. Medill], July
                            24, 1858, ibid.
                  
               
                     cronies, warned that the Little Giant would try intimidation.
                    "You have got to treat him severely," he wrote, "and the sooner you
                    commence the better & easier." Fearing that this militant counsel might be
                    misinterpreted, Whitney appended an amusing afterthought: "I don't of course mean
                    you ought to call him a liar or anything of that sort."48
            
            Political friends provided help and encouragement. Send documents to Sarah Stevenson, suggested one
                    loyal supporter: "This lady will make you more votes than 1/2 the men."
                    "Your 
                        Bloomington
                     speech is admirable," wrote another. "Homely
                    illustrations…and striking comparisons are what the people want."49
            
            When election day came, 
                        Lincoln
                    's legislative candidates polled four thousand more popular votes than those of
                    Douglas; but because of the system of apportionment, Abe found himself five votes short of victory
                    in the legislature.50 "Irrepressible" supporters minimized the
                    bitterness of defeat with hopes for "a chance upon a wider field." "Your
                    popular majority in the State will give us the privilege of naming our man on the national ticket in
                    1860," Horace White confidently predicted. "Then…Abe 
                        Lincoln
                     shall be an honored name before the American people."51
                    The state librarian of Michigan shared White's optimism. Would the Honorable Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     "have the kindness" to send a "Daguerreotype" for
                    the library's "picture Gallery"?52
            
            In February, 1860, 
                        Lincoln
                     received letters promising $200 and "a right cordial
                    welcome" for a speech at Cooper Union. Although the astute presidential hopeful may have
                    looked upon this as a chance to gain political advantage, there is evidence to indicate that he
                    accepted in order to visit his oldest son, Robert, at Exeter. Whatever his motivation, the Cooper
                    Union address enhanced his chances for the nomination two and one-half months later.
                    "Enclosed please find 
                  
                     48 K. M. Knapp to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , July 24, [1858], ibid.; H. C. Whitney to 
                                Lincoln
                            , August 26, 1858, ibid.
                  
                  
                     49 David E. Edgar to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , August 80, 1858, ibid.; Charles H. Ray to 
                                Lincoln
                            , July 27, 1858, ibid.
                  
                  
                     50 Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858 (2 vols.. 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), II, 695–697; Thomas, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 192.
                  
                     51 Horace White to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , November 5, 1858, Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                     52 J. E. Tenney to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , April 21, 1859, ibid.
                  
               
                     'check' for $200," wrote
                    a member of the arrangements committee. "I would that it were $200,000 for you
                    are worthy of it." Your speech "was so inlaid and linked with truth, that it convinced men."53 Even the irascible Greeley was
                    impressed. In turning down a request to speak in Ohio that same week, the Republican editor
                    admitted: "Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     will not only make a more effective speech than I could, but draw a larger
                    audience." "Think of that," he concluded—amazed no doubt at
                    the surprising turn of events, as well as at his own modesty.54
            
            Most communications from the 
                        Chicago
                     convention that May came by telegraph. "Am very hopeful dont [sic] be Excited
                    nearly dead with fatigue," wired Judge Davis, 
                        Lincoln
                    's manager, on the eve of the balloting. Immediately after the vote was
                    announced next day N. M. Knapp telegraphed, "We did it glory to God."55
            
            The split in the Democratic party gave Republican leaders ample reason for confidence, and to 
                        Lincoln
                     the campaign must have been something of an anticlimax. "It will do you no
                    harm…to consider what shall be the quality and cut of your inaugural suit,"
                    wrote Charles Ray from the Tribune offices in 
                        Chicago
                    . "It does not seem to me that you have anything else to do in the
                        campaign."56 When a group in 
                  Springfield, Massachusetts
               , urged 
                        Lincoln
                     to speak, George Fogg of the Republican National Committee advised him not to imitate
                    Douglas, "the stump candidate for the Presidency." "The election is ours
                    now." All that remained, Fogg assured him, was to "receive, count, and assort the
                        votes."57 On November 6, voters confirmed this prediction.
            If the President-elect demonstrated any elation, it was short-lived. "‘I am sick
                    of office-holding already,’" he said in his farewell to Billy Herndon,
                    "‘and I shudder when I think of the tasks that are still
                        ahead.’"58 Somehow, amid 
                  
                     53 Charles C. Nott to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , February 9, 1860, ibid.; James A. Briggs to 
                                Lincoln
                            , February 29, 1860, ibid.
                  
                  
                     54 Horace Greeley to D. S. Pope, March 4, 1860, ibid.
                  
                  
                     55 Telegram from David Davis to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , May 17, 1860, ibid.; telegram from [N. M.] Knapp to 
                                Lincoln
                            , May 18, 1860, ibid.
                  
                  
                     56 Charles H. Ray to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , June 27, [1860], ibid.
                  
                  
                     57 George G. Fogg to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , August 18, 1860, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58 Quoted in Herndon and Weik, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , II, 194.
               
                     all the post-election confusion, he found time to prepare his
                    inaugural address, seeking refuge in a dingy room above the store of his brother-in-law, C. M.
                    Smith. Herndon supplied the only documents 
                        Lincoln
                     needed: Henry 
                        Clay
                    's speech on the Compromise of 1850, Webster's Reply to Hayne, Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    's Nullification Proclamation, and a copy of the Constitution.59 When he finished his preliminary draft, he had twenty copies printed by the Illinois State Journal, whose press operators were sworn to secrecy. Judge Davis read it
                    in 
                        Springfield
                     and approved of every word.60 Senator O. H. Browning examined it in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and later urged 
                        Lincoln
                     to soften the paragraph which explicitly advocated retaking government property in the
                        South.61 Accepting this advice, 
                        Lincoln
                     made his phrasing considerably less explicit, if not actually ambiguous. In 
                        Washington
                    , Francis Blair endorsed the original version in its entirety.62
                    Senator William H. Seward, however, offered no less than thirty-six suggestions for improvement.
                    Seward, in fact, contributed the idea but not the phrasing for the moving final paragraph about
                    "the mystic chords of memory." More important, perhaps, was Seward's
                    influence in persuading 
                        Lincoln
                     to omit specific mention of the Republican platform adopted at 
                        Chicago
                    .63 In all, 
                        Lincoln
                     made almost one hundred modifications in the original text, copies of which are now
                    preserved in the Library of Congress.64 Thurlow Weed, a Republican conservative,
                    accurately predicted that the address "would be conciliatory in spirit but nothing
                    more." Despite its impassioned concluding paragraph, it had an adverse effect on the stock
                        market.65
            
            
               
                  59
                        Ibid., II, 188.
               
                  60 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            : A History (10 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1890), III, 319, 333–334. Easier says the number of copies is unkown;
                        Sandburg says there were twenty. Basler, Collected Works, IV, 249; Carl
                        Sandburg, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            : The 
                                Prairie
                             Years (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1926), II, 423.
               
                  61 O. H. Browning to Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        , February 17, 1861, Robert Todd 
                            Lincoln
                         Papers.
               
                  62 Earl W. Wiley, "Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        : His Emergence as the Voice of the People," History and
                            Criticism of American Public Address, ed. Brigance, II, 867.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., 867–868.
               
                  64 Basler, Collected Works, IV, 249–262.
               
                  65 Thurlow Weed to E. D. Morgan, February 28, 1861, Edwin D. Morgan MSS, 
                            New York State
                         Library; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, March 6, 1861.
            
            
            If the President had time to read his mail during the hectic days which followed, he noted that
                    though his proclamation cost him the support of border state moderates, it nevertheless temporarily
                    unified his party. Radical and conservative Republicans alike wrote to congratulate him on his able
                    statement of issues. Radical leader John Andrew, governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , testified to a "cordial concurrence with the…policy
                        expressed."66 Governor E. D. Morgan of 
                        New York
                    , a moderate, wrote: "I cannot let one day pass without expressing to you the
                    satisfaction I have felt in reading and considering the Inaugural….It cannot fail to
                    command the confidence of the North and the respect of the South."67
                    Henry Raymond, editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, concluded: "If the Union cannot be saved on this basis and
                    consistently with these principles, then it is better that it should not be saved at
                        all."68
            
            Eighty-seven years after the letters in the Robert Todd 
                        Lincoln
                     Collection were written, this correspondence was opened to public scrutiny at the
                    Library of Congress, but the unveiling has hardly settled the sprightly historical controversies
                    over the causes of the Civil War. Reading the mail with preconceived notions, students easily find
                    what pleases them. Marxians, however, find little to fortify their contention that ogres of Wall
                    Street fomented the struggle for personal profit. Although western land speculators and railroad
                    builders favored an uncompromising position, it is nevertheless clear that the dominant capitalistic
                    forces ardently sought conciliation.69 Those who look on the war as a great
                    moral crusade find little to support their thesis, for pulling and hauling over political preference
                    all but obscured slavery as an issue. While 
                        Lincoln
                    's correspondents wrote of moral and economic matters, their motivating
                    passions seemed to spring from a more intimate personal source: bitter political hatreds developed
                    over a long period of intense rivalry. Radicals displayed an irrational "Will to
                    Fight"—regardless of issues 
                  
                     66 John A. Andrew to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , March 8, 1861, Robert Todd 
                                Lincoln
                             Papers.
                  
                     67 E. D. Morgan to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , March 5, 1861, ibid.
                  
                  
                     68
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 6 and 7, 1861.
                  
                     69 Robert G. Gunderson, "
                                Lincoln
                             and Governor Morgan: A Financial Footnote," The Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                 Quarterly, VI (December, 1951), 431–487.
               
                     or economic advantage. There was also a fatalistic atmosphere
                    of inevitability which perhaps hastened the inevitable—a tragic sense of "so be
                    it," or, in the rustic metaphor of the master politician of the Sangamon: "The tug
                    has to come & better now than later."70
            
            
               
                  70 Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                         to William Kellogg, December 11, 1860, in Easier, Collected
                        Works, IV, 150.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Bible Records of the Taylor Family
            
                    Contributed by Alameda McCollough
                    *
                
            The Bible records that are printed here are those of the Taylor family. Stephen O. Taylor, I, was a
                    pioneer of early 
                        Lafayette
                    . Born in 
                        New York City
                     in 1793, the son of a shoemaker on Golden Street, he migrated to 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , as a young man, where near 
                        Dayton
                     he married Elizabeth Diltz. In 1826 they went to Kentucky and remained two years.
                    Taylor's interest in stock raising, kindled in that state, was to continue to the next
                    generation. In 1828 the family came to Indiana with a start of some good livestock and located for a
                    time in what is now 
                        Jackson
                     Township, Tip-pecanoe County. A year later (1829) they settled in 
                        Lafayette
                    , a crude, languishing village on the east bank of the 
                        Wabash
                    . It was a good move, for the steamboat trade was beginning to come to the upper reaches
                    of the river. The Taylors soon established themselves as innkeepers, and their National House, close
                    to the public square on Main Street, became one of the first three hotels in the town. Prior to
                    Stephen's death in 1844, the Taylors had also operated the Wabash House in what later
                    became known as the Lahr Hotel, a name this hotel still uses. The hostel tradition was continued by
                    Taylor descendants, and several of them followed that business in other states. A portrait of
                    Elizabeth Diltz Taylor, 1798–1865, hangs in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Museum at 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Stephen O. Taylor, II, born in 1836 or 1837 and the youngest son of Stephen and Elizabeth
                    Taylor's nine children, carried on his father's interest in livestock,
                    particularly horses. He was considered an excellent judge of horseflesh, and during the Civil War
                    furnished a large number of animals to the government. The Taylor livery establishment on South
                    Third Street, which the second Stephen O. Taylor opened in 1856, became an extensive business that
                    continued until his 
                  
                     * Alameda McCollough is curator of the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association at 
                                Lafayette
                            . The genealogy section of the Indiana Magazine of History is
                            edited by Dorothy Riker, of the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     death in 1906. For fifty years it was a gathering place for
                    horsemen in the 
                        Lafayette
                     area.
            
               
                  RECORD FROM THE FAMILY BIBLE OF STEPHEN O. TAYLOR, I:
               
               
                  Births
               
               
                  Stephen Taylor
                  was born
                  Dec. 9, 1793
               
               
                  Elizabeth Taylor
                  " "
                  Feb. 13, 1798
               
               
                  Kelson Taylor
                  " "
                  Nov. 1, 1818
               
               
                  
                     
                                Clinton
                             Taylor
                  " "
                  Sept. 24, 1821
               
               
                  Vincent Taylor
                  " "
                  Sept. 24, 1823
               
               
                  Lyman Taylor
                  " "
                  Sept. 18, 1826
               
               
                  Eliza Taylor
                  " "
                  Nov. 4, 18281
                  
               
               
                  Daniel Taylor
                  " "
                  April 22, 1831
               
               
                  Ingram Taylor
                  " "
                  Sept. 3 [?] 1833
               
               
                  Stephen Taylor
                  " "
                  Mar. 20, 18362
                  
               
               
                  Emeline Taylor
                  " "
                  May 15, 1838
               
               
                  Marriages
               
               
                  Stephen Taylor was married to Elizabeth Delta [Diltz] January 26, 1818
               
               
                  Deaths
               
               
                  Eliza Taylor
                  died
                  Sept. 27, 1838
               
               
                  Stephen O. Taylor
                  "
                  Nov. 3, 1844
               
               
                  Emeline Taylor
                  "
                  Oct. 8, 1847
               
               
                  Vincent Taylor
                  "
                  Jan. 30, 1854
               
               
                  Elizabeth Taylor
                  "
                  Feb. 13, 1865
               
               
                  
                     
                                Clinton
                             Taylor
                  "
                  1876
               
               
                  RECORD FROM THE FAMILY BIBLE OF STEPHEN O. TAYLOR, II:
               
               
                  Births
               
               
                  Stephen O. Taylor
                  was born
                  March 20, 1837
               
               
                  Laura J. Shively [Taylor]
                  " "
                  October 4, 1841
               
               
                  Lillian Mercer Taylor
                  " "
                  January 9, 1863
               
               
                  Henry C. Taylor
                  " "
                  June 1, 1864
               
               
                  Wm. Gates Taylor
                  " "
                  September 13, 1867
               
               
                  Harvey Hall Taylor
                  " "
                  March 18, 1870
               
               
                  Marriages
               
               
                  Stephen O. Taylor and Laura J. Shively were married Oct. 12, 1858 Samuel Judson
                            Carpenter and Lillian Mercer Taylor were married
               
               
                  Oct. 21, 1903 Henry Hall Taylor and Janet Milne were married Nov. 11, 1918
               
               
                  Deaths
               
               
                  Stephen Oliver Taylor
                  died
                  May 17, 1906
               
               
                  William Gates Taylor
                  "
                  1919
               
            
            
               
                  1 Possibly 1827; the date is blotted.
               
                  2 The 6 in this date has been marked over with what appears to be a
                    7.
            
         
         
         
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The genealogy committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence.
            Want information on birth and death and parents of George Briant (or Bryant) who m. Sarah DeMoss (b.
                    1800), and d. in Morgan Co., Ind., before 1850. Children: John Strange and Peter, b. Ohio and Ky.;
                    former m. Rachel Burris, dau. of Bowalter and Tabitha (Summers) Burris, Quakers; their children were
                    Levi Bowalter, George R., Joseph S., Andrew, Judith, John E., and Peter.—Mrs. John D.
                    Hart, 1547 Ames St., 
                        Denver
                     15, Colo.
            Want ancestry of Margaret 
                        Caldwell
                     (or Colwell) b. Vigo Co., Ind., 1829; m. William Burl Callaway in Edgar Co., Ill.,
                    1850, and d. there in 1907. Had 2 sons and 7 daughters who m. into Cook, Moats, Kees, Bradford,
                    Hicks, and Hunt families.—Mrs. George Morton, 6605 Brill Road, 
                        Indianapolis
                     27, Ind.
            Want information on Abner Hall, b. 1791 in Pa.; m. Nancy Bennett, b. in Tenn.; both d. 
                        Greenfield
                    , Mo. Their son William, b. 1827 in Ind., m. Melissa Evett; d. in Mo. Their dau. Candace
                    m. James A. Brown.—Mrs. F. C. Mertens, 1014 Cameron St., 
                        Indianapolis
                     3, Ind.
            Want information on parents of Charles Harmon, b. in 
                        Ohio
                    , 1811; m. Elizabeth Rodman in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1831. Moved to Howard Co., Ind., where he d. 1883. Had children: William, John,
                    Nancy, James, Charles.—Dorothy Riker, 140 N. Senate Ave., 
                        Indianapolis
                     4, Ind.
            Want information on descendants of Hugh and Sarah Cropper McClanahan of Bracken Co., Ky. Two
                    daughters married (husbands' names unknown) and went to Ind., possibly after
                    1850.—Mrs. Kathleen B. Carter, 2115 P St., N. W., 
                        Washington
                     7, D.C.
            Want information on Michael Titus, b. 1805 in 
                        Ohio
                    , and wife Mary (maiden name believed to be Lambert or McCoy), b. 1816 in Ind. Died
                    after 1860 in Ind. Their dau. Charity, b. 1854, m. John C. Brown in 
                        Clinton
                     Twp., Vermillion Co., 1871.—Mrs. George Morton, 6605 Brill Road, 
                        Indianapolis
                     27, Ind.
         
         
         
            Some Recent Publications of the Indiana University Press
            The Indiana University Press announces the publication of the following volumes which may be of
                    interest to readers of the Indiana Magazine of History. Orders for these books
                    should be addressed to: Indiana University Press, 307 East Second Street, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
               Marie 
                            Campbell
                        , Tales from the Cloud Walking Country. $5.00.
               James A. Connolly, Three Years in the Army of the 
                                Cumberland
                            : The Letters & Diary of Major James A. Connolly, edited by Paul M.
                        Angle. $6.00.
               John Esten Cooke, Wearing of the Gray, edited by Philip Van Doren Stern.
                        $7.50.
               A. J. Hanna, Flight into Oblivion. $5.00.
               John B. Hood, Advance and Retreat, edited by Richard N. Current.
                        $6.00.
               Camille Ferri Pisani, Prince Napoleon in America, 1861: Letters from His
                            Aide-de-Camp, translated by Georges Joyaux. $6.75.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Ohio Company: Its Inner History. By Alfred P. James. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xxiv, 875. Map, appendices, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            Historians have in recent years become accustomed to an excellent standard in the works published by
                    the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press. The present work, a companion volume to the George Mercer
                    Papers, edited by Lois Mulkearn and published by the same press in 1954, is no exception.
                    Professor James has produced an invaluable aid to those interested in the history of the Ohio
                    Company and of the American frontier in the years before and during the American Revolution.
                    Approximately half the present work consists of a careful account of the inner history of the Ohio
                    Company. This account closely follows and comments upon the documentary material which James
                    gathered for the study. The latter half of the work concerns itself for the most part with this
                    documentary material. The four appendices include a selected list of documents, tables of commercial
                    and land transactions, and a calendar of some 1220 documents relating to the Ohio Company.
            In the first part of the work Professor James makes use of his experience and extensive knowledge of
                    the sources to produce a scholarly, chronological account of the inner activities of the Ohio
                    Company. In presenting this narrative he purposely omits any consideration of the place of the
                    company in the general history of the period. He warns in his Foreword that "the treatment
                    is definitely narrow" (p. ix), and that Indian affairs, the diplomatic relations of 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                    , and the military struggle between these two countries will play little part in the
                    volume. The narrative bears witness to this intention. The reader will not find here a stimulating
                    account of the Ohio Company and the mid-eighteenth-century frontier. Yet he will find meticulous use
                    of the documentary material and loving care for detail. It is in the careful documentation of the
                    text and in the extensive appendices that the great value of Professor James's work is to
                    be found.
            In preparation for this study the author attempted to collect all available materials for a history
                    of the Ohio Company. To accomplish this task he has not only examined the material in the larger
                    manuscript collections, but he has also searched extensively among the less well-known county
                    archives in 
                  Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia
               ,
                    West 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . The results of his extensive research are now collected in the form of microfilms and
                    photostats in the Darlington Library of the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     (A. P. James Collection, Collated Transcripts of Manuscripts Relating to the Ohio
                    Company of 
                        Virginia
                    ). In Appendix A of the present volume is printed a representative selection of this
                    material, and Appendix D consists of a calendar of the whole collection arranged in chronological
                    order. Thus, though the present volume contains printed copies of only a fairly small percentage of
                    the total available material on the company, it serves as an excellent guide to all the available
                    sources both in manuscript and printed form.
            
            The value of such a study is obvious. Any future student of the company and of the Ohio Valley in the
                    mid-eighteenth century will be placed deeply in debt to Professor James and will find his volume
                    indispensable.
            
               University of 
                     Wisconsin, Milwaukee
                  
                Reginald Horsman
         
         
            
               George Croghan: Wilderness Diplomat. By Nicholas B. Wainwright. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1969. Pp. viii, 334. Maps, bibliographical essay, index. $6.00.)
            Nicholas B. Wainwright, while performing his duties as editor and research librarian of the
                    Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , made a discovery of the type all historians dream about. In an old trunk in a 
                        Philadelphia
                     attic he found the personal papers of George Croghan. These documents, along with the
                    discoveries of other collections and the published papers of men like Sir William Johnson and
                    Colonel Henry Bouquet, have made available much new information on Croghan's life and
                    career. This is material which Albert T. Volwiler never had when he published his excellent work,
                        George Croghan and the Westward Movement, over thirty years ago. Mr.
                    Wainwright, who is the author of several previously published books, makes excellent use of this new
                    information in presenting an authoritative and colorful biography of a fascinating figure of the
                    early American West.
            George Croghan has long been a person of interest to students of American colonial history. Even with
                    the new information which Wainwright has uncovered, there is still much unknown about him. The
                    author admits that "nothing is known of Croghan's life before he came to
                    America" (p. 107), not even his age nor his appearance. He arrived in this country in 1741,
                    but there is still little information about him before 1748. Therefore, much of the first chapter of
                    this biography, which covers these early years, is conjecture based on the author's
                    knowledge of the period and of the comparatively few pertinent documents. The remainder of the book,
                    however, is a detailed and well-documented description of Croghan's life up to 1776, when
                    he again became a rather obscure figure until his death in 1782.
            During the thirty years or so of his active life in this country, Croghan was an outstanding Indian
                    agent and trader. "His ability to understand the natives, to gain their respect, and to
                    sway their opinions was Croghan's most important attribute" (p. 308). Frequently
                    he served his country as a peacemaker and negotiator with the Indians and was unusually successful,
                    Wainwright maintains, because of his talent for salesmanship, his tenacity, and his charm.
            Croghan was also a speculator, but suffered frequent failures in business and died in poverty. These
                    difficulties caused him to be distrusted by many, and a direct result of this distrust was the fact
                    that both the British and the colonials treated Croghan as a traitor during the Revolution.
            One of the striking aspects of this volume is its objectivity of presentation. The faults of
                    Croghan's character are indicated as well  as his
                    virtues. Wainwright speaks of Croghan's making promises he often left unfulfilled, of his
                    heavy drinking, and of his near-illiteracy. The author admits that Croghan's honest trading
                    methods did not stem from nobility of character but from practicality since such a policy was
                    profitable. Wainwright freely criticizes, when necessary, Croghan's opinions, such as his
                    explanation of the defeat of Braddock's expedition, which he had accompanied.
            Wainwright has contributed in this book not only a detailed description of the eventful years of
                    Croghan's life, but also a work which gives some insight into the frontier and its problems
                    during and immediately after the French and Indian War. His work is interpretive as well as
                    descriptive, and the interpretations are based upon much analysis of the evidence. The most notable
                    of Wainwright's interpretations of Croghan's career is the contention that his
                    failures were not caused by the plundering of the French, as Volwiler maintains, but by
                    Croghan's own mismanagement of business affairs before the difficulties with the French
                    ever occurred.
            
               
                  
                            Huntington
                         College Robert H. Paine
         
         
            
               Frontier America: The Story of the Westward Movement. By Thomas D. Clark. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1969. Pp. xi, 832. Illustrations, maps,
                    bibliography, appendix, index. Text edition, $6.75; trade edition, $10.00.)
            In Frontier America Professor Thomas D. Clark paints in broad strokes the colorful,
                    dynamic, often tragic history of pioneer days and ways as America moved west. Between the middle of
                    the eighteenth century and the end of the nineteenth, the period this volume covers, the nation was
                    formed and shaped as the successive frontiers of fur trader, cattleman, miner, and pioneer farmer
                    laid the basis for settled agricultural life and the rise of towns and cities.
            Clark skillfully cuts his way through the maze of local history and legend that often obscures the
                    meaning of events. He presents an understandable account of the significant aspects of national
                    growth, giving attention to incident and color but emphasizing broad social and economic
                    developments rather than the element of individualism. The author makes no particular claims that
                    the process of American expansion nurtured and matured the American democratic process. In fact, the
                    book breaks with some others in the field in that it makes little effort to relate events in the
                    rest of the country to the course of frontier settlement. Clark believes that America's
                    history was vitally influenced by the westward movement and that many major national problems had
                    connection with the frontier, but the reader is left to think through these complicated
                    interrelationships for himself.
            The book follows the general organization of courses in the westward movement. An opening
                    "perspective" characterizes frontier America, skillfully outlining its traits and
                    warning the reader to avoid the stereotyped notion that the frontier's basis was purely
                    agricultural, an assumption which often dominates studies such as this. Modern,  urban, industrial America does not represent a break from the pioneer
                    past to Clark. He notes that towns and cities as market centers always were a vital part of the
                    frontier movement, providing manufactured goods and services in close support to the pioneer.
            The first fifteen chapters present the original struggle to settle the trans-Appalachian frontier,
                    the story of French opposition before the Revolution and the continuing Indian wars and treaties,
                    exploration, land speculation, and the efforts of diplomacy to clear the way west. Here are the
                    achievements of Daniel Boone opening 
                        Kentucky
                    , George Rogers Clark holding off the British during the Revolution, Meriwether Lewis
                    and William Clark blazing a trail to the Pacific to open the Missouri Valley, and Zebulon 
                        Pike
                     exploring the Southwest, as well as the rascality of Aaron Burr and James Wilkinson,
                    frontier filibusterers.
            Clark does not neglect to include chapters on frontier life—its religion, amusements,
                    health, state of mind, and means of livelihood. He includes careful treatment of the institution of
                    government; experiments in communal living; road, railroad, and canal building; and the emergence of
                    frontier education, newspapers, and artists.
            The second half of the book is largely the story of trans-Mississippi settlement. This reviewer
                    questions the inclusion in these chapters of the account of eastern Indian removals, which should
                    come earlier. The wisdom of placing the Mexican War narrative after accounts of settlement in
                            
                  Oregon, California
               , and the Great Basin is debatable since the Texan independence
                    movement in part gave rise to this settlement. Also to be questioned is the account of sectionalism
                    in the formation of states just west of the Mississippi after the discussion of the mining frontier,
                    much of which followed the Civil War. But so much went on simultaneously in American expansion that
                    the story is always hard to arrange both logically and chronologically.
            The author seems equally well at home in his treatment of the Mountain Men, the Mormon settlers, the
                    cattle kingdom, western railroad building, the last stand of the Indian, and the progress and
                    problems of the farmers' last frontier as he is in the earlier chapters.
            No text is without its faults. Objection might be made here principally to the author's
                    tendency to be vague about some things that a reader should, perhaps, be told. For example, why was
                    Governor Spotswood's exploring party "convivial" (p. 31); who was Colonel
                    Thomas Cresap, whose house was a "famous early frontier landmark" (p. 41); why did
                    Braddock come to the colonies; and why did 
                        Washington
                     bury him in the middle of the road after the famous defeat (p. 51)? Incidentally, the
                    author has Colonel Thomas Gage apparently leading the wagon train in this battle, whereas he was
                    actually in command of the advance guard. What was Father Blanchet's "famous
                    ‘Catholic Ladder’" (p. 494); and to what does "the
                    Company" refer (p. 504)?
            It should be noted, too, that Fort Frontenac on Lake Ontario was known as
                    "Cataraqui" or "Cadaraqui," not "Caradaqui,"
                    (p. 71). Fort Lyon is called Camp Lyon on p. 700 and Fort Lyons on p. 701. The reviewer doubts the
                    usefulness of the chronological table of events at the end, and notes, too, that the Bibliography,
                    otherwise very full,  omitted such outstanding volumes as
                    DeVeto's Course of Empire, the works of Paul W. Gates, Dale
                    Morgan's biography of Jedidiah Smith, and the already classic novels of A. B. Guthrie which
                    should be drawn to the attention of all interested in the western fur trade or the Oregon Trail.
            There seems little question but that this book will be widely adopted in history courses. It should
                    also give pleasure to general readers who want a smoothly written, exciting narrative of the
                    multifaceted westward movement.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University G. M. Waller
         
         
            
               The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790–1830. By Richard
                    C. Wade. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Historical Monographs, Volume XLI. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. 362. Bibliographical note, index. $6.00.)
            It has been nearly three quarters of a century since the appearance of Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner's essay, "The Significance of the Frontier in American
                    History." In the intervening years the Turner thesis has been a summa for
                    three generations of American historians, inspired countless monographs dealing with the frontier
                    and the West, and even become a part of college student folk-culture by virtue of its inevitable
                    inclusion as an item on examinations. By and large, both professional historians and students have
                    conceived the frontier in Turner's own terms as a rural environment, "the
                    wilderness…, the log cabin…, the edge of free land…, the American
                    forest [out of which] American Democracy was born."
            In The Urban Frontier, Richard C. Wade, an associate professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Rochester
                    , contends in effect that Turner's westward "procession of
                    civilization, marching single file—the buffalo…, the Indian, the fur-trader
                    and hunter, the cattle-raiser, [and] the pioneer farmer…." should have included
                    the urban dweller. The book's chief significance lies in its impressive argument that the
                    Turnerian interpretation of the frontier ("the trader's frontier, the
                    rancher's frontier, the miner's frontier, and the farmer's
                    frontier") has mistakenly ignored or, at least, underestimated the role of the urban
                    frontier.
            Based solidly on Professor Wade's studies of contempory newspapers and magazines, city
                    council minutes, courthouse records, travelers' accounts, diaries, collections of letters
                    and other sources, The Urban Frontier traces the fortunes of five
                            cities—
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville,
                            Lexington
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    —from their origins down to 1830. There are both notable similarities and
                    significant differences in the early histories of these five cities. All, for example, were vitally
                    affected by such economic factors as fluctuating land values, conservative or wildcat banking
                    practices, "infant industrialism," and transportation advances. All five cities
                    engaged in struggles with their respective state legislatures in order to secure the governmental
                    powers and financial means which would enable them to attack a constantly growing complex of
                    "municipal problems": the regulation of markets, the building  and maintenance of streets and wharves, the provision of police and
                    fire protection, the financing of public water and gas lighting facilities, and the enforcement of
                    public health measures. Similarly, the five cities studied by Professor Wade early developed
                    stratified societies, ranging from merchant oligarchies at the top to Negro slaves and freedmen at
                    the bottom, and in each case the "seeds of culture"—newspapers,
                    churches, schools, libraries, and theatres—were broadcast from the urban centers to the
                    rural hinterlands.
            Within these broad patterns of similarity, however, each of the five "Western
                    Emporiums" established identities based on social, economic, or political factors. 
                        Lexington
                    , for example, never recovered from the economic dislocations caused by the steamboat
                    and the depression which followed the War of 1812, but culturally it remained the "
                        Athens
                     of the West," notably during Horace Holley's presidency at
                    Transylvania University. 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's commercial and industrial prospects were fostered by the steamboat, but the
                    postwar depression, combined with the completion of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal and the extension of the National Road to 
                        Wheeling
                    , left economic scars which shook the Iron City's optimism and required more
                    than a decade for healing. 
                        Louisville
                    's reputation as the Graveyard of the 
                        Ohio
                    , earned chiefly because of the low marshlands which surrounded it, retarded its early
                    growth, but the steamboat and the city's location at the Falls of the Ohio saved it from
                    the oblivion which its sister cities, 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and, especially, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , anticipated for it with unbecoming enthusiasm. In their own ways, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , whose trade and commerce made it "the 
                        London
                     of the western country," and 
                        St. Louis
                    , the middleman of the fur trade and the lead-mining industry, were well on their way to
                    urban maturity by 1830.
            
               The Urban Frontier seems assured recognition as an important addition to the
                    literature on westward expansion. General readers and professional historians alike may read a
                    "Wadeian Thesis" in the author's conclusion (pp. 341–342):
                    "By 1830, then, the West had produced two types of society—one rural and one
                    urban. Each developed its own institutions, habits, and living patterns…. Yet the cities
                    represented the more aggressive and dynamic force. By spreading their economic power over the entire
                    section, by bringing the fruits of civilization across the mountains, and by insinuating their ways
                    into the countryside, they speeded up the transformation of the West from a gloomy wilderness to a
                    richly diversified region. Any historical view which omits this dimension of Western life tells but
                    part of the story."
            
               Indiana State Teachers College Robert Constantine
         
         
            
               Midwestern Progressive Politics: A Historical Study of Its Origins and Development,
                        1870–1958. [Revised edition.] By Russel B. Nye. (East Lansing: Michigan State
                    University Press, 1959. Pp. 398. Bibliographies, index. $5.00.)
            
               Midwestern Progressive Politics was originally published in 1951. In the present
                    volume Professor Russel B. Nye has extended the last chapter to include the post-
                        Korea
                     era and has made some revisions  which up-date the
                    remainder of the material. Beginning with an essay on "The Midwestern Problem,"
                    which etches the background of Middle Western progressivism in the late nineteenth century, the
                    author, in five subsequent chapters, traces the origins and development of the progressive movement
                    up to the great debacle of 1920. In the final chapter, "The Road Back,
                    1920–1958," an effort is made to explain the decline of the progressives and to
                    show that since they were basically sectional-minded they could not feel at home in the
                    nationalistic New Deal.
            Professor Nye, a native of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , is chairman of the Department of English at Michigan State University. He writes well
                    and has a talent for broad synthesis. His sympathy for the progressives is obvious. Unfortunately,
                    Professor Nye seems to have given little attention to manuscript collections and other unpublished
                    materials dealing with his subject. One looks in vain for footnotes—either at the bottom
                    of pages, where they belong, or at the back of the book, where they can at least be used.
            Whatever may be its shortcomings from the point of view of the specialist in American history or
                    economics, Midwestern Progressive Politics…1870–1958,
                    provides a useful survey for undergraduates interested in the objectives, the panaceas, and the
                    personalities of the various phases of the progressive movement. As Professor Nye sees it, these
                    phases began with Grangerism, "the earliest form of Midwestern progressivism" (p.
                    48), and included, among others, the Greenback party, the Farmers' Alliance, Populism,
                    Bryan Democracy, the progressivism of the Square Deal and New Freedom eras, the Bull Moose party,
                    and the Progressive party of 1924. However, "the Progressive Party of 1948, which nominated
                    Henry Wallace and Glen Taylor on its national ticket, was not related to the older progressive
                    movement" (p. 350). Although Nye states that "Midwestern progressivism, old style,
                    died in November of 1932" (p. 351), he is probably more nearly correct in dating its demise
                    when he observes that "the First World War broke the progressive movement, scattered it,
                    and left it in 1920 with no point on which to re-form" (p. 288).
            Robert M. LaFollette, Sr., is presented as the "real leader of Midwestern
                    progressivism" (p. 190), and of the numerous biographical sketches included in this work
                    that of LaFollette is the best. The most disappointing are those of the Republican Insurgents of the
                    Taft era, especially the inaccurate comments describing Jonathan P. Dolliver and Albert J. Beveridge
                    (p. 245–247). Professor Nye deals rather harshly with Theodore Roosevelt as a progressive
                    leader, asserting that "the Square Deal failed in the pinch" (p. 224), and that
                    T.R. "talked a great deal, but failed to produce" (p. 234). For Woodrow Wilson,
                    however, the author expresses admiration and records that in less than four years of
                    Wilson's presidency "more legislation of a progressive nature was passed, and the
                    groundwork for more laid, than under any previous leader" (p. 283).
            Though brief, the analysis of the attitude of the "old progressives" toward the New
                    Deal is interesting and suggestive. So, too, are the sections devoted to the contrast between the
                    Midwest of today and that  of two or three decades ago. Inasmuch
                    as the Midwest over the past twenty years "has undergone swifter and more drastic social
                    and economic changes than in any other period since the passage of the Northwest
                    Ordinance," Professor Nye concludes that these changes "demand new political
                    approaches to the problems they create" (p. 354) and that "it is inconceivable
                    that a Jerry Simpson, an Ingnatius Donnelly, or even an elder LaFollette will ever again capture the
                    fancy of the Midwestern electorate" (p. 362).
            
               Davis and Elkins College Thomas R. Ross
         
         
            
               The Life of the Admiral Christopher 
                            Columbus
                         by his Son Ferdinand. Translated and edited by Benjamin Keen. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1959. Pp. xxxii, 316. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    index. $7.50.)
            A man who rises from obscurity into sudden prominence, as did William Shakespeare, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , and Christopher 
                        Columbus
                     (alias Cristoforo Colombo, Cristóbal Colón), is likely to become
                    more legendary than historical. This is especially true of the last-named individual, as every
                    person who has ever attempted to write his biography has readily discovered. The reaction of the
                    biographer too often has been to increase the problem by creating more legend. When a sound scholar
                    finally tackles the issue, he finds it necessary to spend more time denying the legend than he can
                    devote to determining the truth.
            The 
                        Columbus
                     legend was compounded by the disappearance of essential documents such as the log of
                    the first voyage, by the deliberate obfuscations of the 
                        Columbus
                     family in their eagerness to magnify their status in a stratified society, and by the
                    efforts of contemporary enemies to denigrate the upstart admiral. In some sense, the book now under
                    review has contributed to each of these areas of confusion. The original manuscript was written by
                    Ferdinand 
                        Columbus
                    , the second son of the discoverer, and is characterized by the weaknesses inherent in
                    such a relationship between biographer and biographee—filiopietism, glossing over of some
                    unpleasant facts, and exaggeration of certain other data. Ferdinand, for example, failed to mention
                    his own illegitimacy—an understandable omission. On the other hand, his family connection
                    gave him access to documents which have long since disappeared and makes his manuscript an
                    indispensable source of information, however fragmentary, upon the life of his father. Every
                    biographer, from 
                        Washington
                     Irving to Samuel Eliot Morison, has been forced to lean very heavily upon it. Finally,
                    much of the stimulus for Ferdinand's effort came from his indignation at published accounts
                    which belittled his father's claims to greatness, and at the ingratitude displayed by the
                    Spanish rulers toward the Italian who had given them an empire. The final result of these concurrent
                    forces was a fascinating but polemical addition to the world's historical literature.
            Ferdinand 
                        Columbus
                     composed this biography during the last three years of his life (1536–1539),
                    and more than three decades after the death of his father. Ferdinand was a wealthy bachelor, a
                    trusted  servant of the crown and holder of lucrative sinecures,
                    a scholar, a bibliophile, and something of a dilettante. At his death the manuscript remained
                    unpublished, and was sold by his worthless nephew to a cultured Genoese physician who had it
                    translated into Italian and published in Venice in 1571. From this hastily translated and
                    unquestionably garbled version a poor English translation was made in 1744. Since the Spanish
                    original had long since disappeared, these imperfect versions of Ferdinand's work were all
                    that scholars could use until very recently. In 1930, however, the Italian scholar, Rinaldo Caddeo,
                    scrupulously edited a new text, and in 1947 Ramon Iglesia published an excellent re-translation into
                    Spanish. Mr. Keen worked from these texts in preparing this "first complete and adequate
                    English translation."
            Not qualified to test the validity of this claim by the publishers, this reviewer is inclined to
                    accept it on the strength of Mr. Keen's proven skill as an historian, editor, and
                    translator. The book is interestingly illustrated by sixteenth-century woodcuts and
                    Morison's maps. Mr. Keen supplies an explanatory introduction end excellent notes, confined
                    generally to identification of names and places in the text and to careful corrections of
                    Ferdinand's factual errors.
            The book thus has an authoritative air, and it should be extremely useful to scholars and teachers.
                    It is also a wonderful piece of literature for average American readers—an adventure
                    story with suspense, romance, and pathos aplenty. At the hands of an admiring offspring who shared
                    his disastrous fourth voyage, 
                        Columbus
                     comes alive—a man of infinite skill, faith, persistence, patience, and
                    courage. One sees with him this virgin land in all its pristine glory and wonder. And one cannot
                    escape the personal poignancy of supreme victory and nagging defeat and the end of it all when the
                    great man, "much afflicted by the gout and by grief at seeing himself fallen from his high
                    estate, as well as by other ills, yielded up his soul to God on the Day of the Ascension, May 20,
                    1506, in the city of Valladolid, having received with much devotion all the sacraments of the
                    Church…. God, in His great mercy and goodness, assuredly received him into His
                    glory" (p. 284).
            
               Otterbein College Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               Seventeenth-Century America: Essays in Colonial History.Edited by James Morton
                    Smith. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1959. Pp. xv, 238. Index. $5.00.)
            The major part of this book consists of a half-dozen monographs by as many different authors on
                    important aspects of seventeenth-century Virginia history. Besides this, there is a similar essay on
                    Massachusetts Bay, a critical discussion of the historical accounts of the colonies in the
                    seventeenth century written in or near the period, a lecture pointing out the significance of the
                    experiences and changes of the period that resulted in the American way of life, and an excellent
                    introduction summarizing the essential contribution of each chapter and supplying enough connective
                    tissue to produce a unified whole.
            
            The lecture on the significance of the period for future American history points out how the strange,
                    new, and elemental experiences of the colonists engendered in them the conviction of divinely
                    ordained mission. At one time or another peoples from the ancient Jews to the Germans of the days of
                    the last Kaiser and the English of the days of Kipling have been effectively inspired by such a
                    conviction.
            The essay on moral and legal aspects of the dispossessing of the Indians makes a strong case for the
                    Indians, but may be a little too much inclined to apply modern standards. The preponderance of
                    official pronouncements by church and state seems to have held that non-Christians had no right to
                    own anything—not even their own bodies. The principle of
                    "finders-keepers" was thus applied by the absolute sovereigns to the unowned New
                    World. Uninterrupted possession even by an interloper could be argued as nine points in the law if
                    the possessor were strong enough. If evidence existed that would enable one to run clear abstracts
                    of title for all the land on earth, it is doubtful whether he would find one square inch of soil
                    that did not at one or more times show transfers of title through forcible, uncompensated
                    dispossession. No doubt many of the Indian tribes occupied lands that they had acquired by conquest.
            The essay on Indian culture indicates that because of friction between Indians and white settlers
                    there was not too much conscious borrowing by one from the other. With some important exceptions
                    this is undoubtedly true. The American wilderness, however, was conquered by pioneers who had as
                    much of the characteristics of the Indian as they did of the old country Englishman. The
                    requirements of the environment may to some extent have produced the survival of the same
                    characteristics in the pioneer as in the Indian, but there was much that has escaped the documents.
            The painstaking and industrious effort to search out the social strati from which the majority of the
                    early settlers came will be much appreciated by historical scholars. Research tends to solidly
                    confirm the earlier supposition, sometimes questioned, that the majority were of the substantial
                    middle class. The importance of this finding should not blind one, however, to the importance of
                    this other fact that if the newcomers contained a preponderant number who were deeply dissatisfied
                    with conditions in 
                        England
                     and who had enough initiative and courage and energy to do something about it, such as
                    getting into jail or coming to America, these people would be truer seed of the American people of
                    today than the washed-out people, regardless of social class, who were content to take things lying
                    down and remain where they were.
            The author of the essay on the Anglican church is convinced that English statesmen and churchmen
                    realized the importance of strengthening the establishment in the colonies as an instrument of
                    imperial control but concludes that confused and changing political and religious conditions
                    resulted in failure to take effective measures. The chapter on the church in New 
                        England
                     is restricted to a treatment of the disciplinary functions of the church. The influence
                    of its theological tenets on such things as economic enterprise and education are omitted.  An investigation of the Puritans' attitude toward the
                    place of equity in judicial decisions re-establishes the balance in the statement of the truth. The
                    author might have cited a few of the many cases where decisions were based solely upon reason and
                    common sense and then justified by quoting a text from the Bible that by no stretch of the
                    imagination could be related either to the case or to the decision.
            The essays on the origins of the Virginia landed aristocracy and the control of local and provincial
                    governments is well done. The essayist gives more attention in his discussion of local government to
                    the vestrymen than to the county justices; but since they were in the nature of interlocking
                    directorates, it makes no real difference. In his concluding paragraphs the writer states that the
                    situation in Virginia at the time of the Glorious Revolution in 
                        England
                     and the disturbances in the colonies had more points of similarity to situations in the
                    other colonies than differences. This may be true. There was in each of the colonies a ruling class
                    that held the balance of power between the British government and a large group of colonials who had
                    little political power. The ruling class to a considerable degree maintained its position down to
                    the American Revolution by playing the other groups against one another. An important difference
                    between colonies is revealed at the outbreak of the American Revolution when the Virginia
                    aristocracy kept step with the humbler folk, whereas a much larger proportion of the aristocracy in
                    most of the other colonies sided with the British. The essays as a whole are examples of the solid,
                    honest research and writing that can and should be done over the whole field of American history.
            
               Indiana University Albert L. Kohlmeier
         
         
            
               Prologue to Revolution: Sources and Documents on the Stamp Act Crisis,
                        1764–1766. Edited by Edmund S. Morgan. Documentary Problems in
                        Early American History. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1959. Pp. xi, 163. Frontispiece. Paperbound, $2.00.)
            Edmund S. Morgan, an outstanding authority on the Stamp Act controversy, has now edited a small
                    volume which will help students become better acquainted with the contemporary material on that
                    important crisis in American history. The collection can serve as a sourcebook to supplement his
                    excellent monograph, The Stamp Act Crisis (with Helen M. Morgan), though this is
                    not the primary intention of the author. Rather Mr. Morgan is offering the student as well as the
                    teacher a different method for considering historical developments. His is the "problem
                    approach" intended to emphasize the complexities of historical events, the many unknown
                    factors, and the striking contradictions which appear again and again in reconstructing the past.
            The Stamp Act crisis lends itself well to such a treatment. There are no final answers to the
                    perplexing questions of why the British blundered or why the American reaction was as violent and as
                    unified  as it was; or who was right and who was wrong in this
                    quarrel, the first of a long series of misunderstandings between mother country and colonies. In the
                    crucial months of 1765 and 1766, the Americans were formulating their position and were establishing
                    the method of resistance which they followed in the next decade. In Prologue to
                        Revolution the official position is presented in samples of the petitions, remonstrances,
                    and memorials drawn up by the provincial assemblies and in some of the parliamentary proceedings;
                    the popular side, often abusive and denunciatory in tone but at times reasonable and brilliant, is
                    revealed in excerpts from newspapers and pamphlets, some familiar and others reprinted for the first
                    time.
            The organization of the material as well as the stimulating questions included in each section make
                    this a first-rate book for the classroom. The pattern of rebellion unfolds like a drama:
                    step-by-step one is led through the attacks and counterattacks on the matters of taxation and the
                    rights of the British Parliament. The inevitable question, as the author suggests, is how much did
                    the Americans and British learn from the Stamp Act and its consequences. The title of the
                    collection, Prologue to Revolution, is indeed meaningful.
            The practical problem of how such a book can best be used should be considered. The approach which
                    aims at developing critical abilities in the student is a sound one. For small classes there is no
                    question about the value and usefulness of such a volume; and for advanced students it can best be
                    used as a point of departure for considering the American position vis-a-vis the British and as a
                    guide for analyzing and reconstructing the Revolutionary era. However, in large classes in the
                    survey courses of American history, exactly where the critical approach to history should be
                    encouraged, using a sourcebook presents many problems, since discussion is either impossible or
                    unprofitable. So while Mr. Morgan along with other historians, such as the editors of the Amherst
                    series, Problems in American Civilization, seek to break with the textbook
                    approach, there is a tendency to rely more on standard texts and less on outside reading as classes
                    grow in size. Mr. Morgan deserves praise not only for an outstanding editorial job, but also for
                    again bringing up the question of how best to develop a critical mind in the student.
            
               Indiana University Rena L. Vassar
         
         
            
               The Trial of Mary Todd 
                            Lincoln
                        , By James A. Rhodes and Dean Jauchius. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. 200. Bibliography, index. $3.50.)
            Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's widow was judged insane by a jury empaneled at 
                        Chicago
                     on Tuesday, May 19, 1875. Authors Rhodes and Jauchius believe that she was not insane
                    but was "being railroaded in a court room pungent with a kangaroo odor" (p. 16).
                    They allege that Isaac N. Arnold who defended her, although an "aggressive and capable
                    lawyer," was in this instance "unaccountably weak" (p. 29). The Trial of Mary Todd 
                            Lincoln
                        
                is a reconstruction of the court proceedings in which the authors assume the
                    role of counsel for the defense,  according to the caption of
                    their signed Foreword. Stressing the arguments on behalf of Mrs. Lincoln's sanity and
                    appealing to the emotions of a newly empaneled jury—the prospective readers of their
                    book—in this mock trial of 1959, Rhodes and Jauchius may be successful in persuading this
                    jury to reverse the decision of the former court.
            More sensational than the assertion that the original "infamous" legal proceedings
                    were fixed is the charge that three of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's long-time friends, Leonard Swett, Isaac N. Arnold, and David Davis, entered
                    into a political conspiracy and by perverting justice forced the Lamented President's
                    "helpless widow….into an asylum" (pp. 21, 22). Admitting that best it
                    is precarious to assign motives for others' behavior, we wish that the authors might have
                    made a more objective approach in submitting such a serious accusation.
            Even more disconcerting to students of Lincolniana than the alleged plot by the former
                    President's friends is the further allegation that Robert 
                        Lincoln
                     permitted himself to become or was made to seem a partner in this supposed conspiracy.
                    The authors imply that his purpose in having his mother committed to an asylum was to be made
                    conservator of her sizeable estate. It was known that she constantly carried sixty-five thousand
                    dollars in securities on her person. According to the authors, Robert 
                        Lincoln
                    's political enemies anticipated that when the public concluded that Robert was
                    responsible for his mother's incarceration, political support for the son of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     would be dissolved.
            Rhodes and Jauchius have written an exceedingly interesting and readable but highly controversial
                    volume. It will be the task of the reader to conclude whether or not they have been able to maintain
                    their main thesis that Mary 
                        Lincoln
                     was not insane in the face of some well established facts. The original jury having
                    heard the evidence was satisfied that Mary 
                        Lincoln
                     was insane. Six physicians in council informed Robert that by any longer delay in
                    placing his mother in an institution he was making himself morally responsible for some very
                    probable tragedy. Seven years before the trial Robert wrote that his mother was not mentally
                    responsible and under oath at the trial testified, "She is without doubt insane"
                    (p. 100). Even Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     must have had some foreboding of what would eventually happen to Mary. As early as 1862
                    in conversation with Emily Helm, Mary's half-sister, he discussed his wife's
                    emotional demonstrations. It was Emily's impression that he felt Mary would some day have
                    to be placed in a private sanitarium such as one that could be viewed from the White House windows.
            
               The 
                            Lincoln
                         National Life Foundation 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana Louis A. Warren
         
         
            
               Herbert Hoover and the Great Depression. By Harris Gaylord 
                        Warren
                    . (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. x, 372. Notes, index. $7.00.)
            Although a great deal has been written about the Great Depression which followed the Panic of 1929,
                    this is the first book to deal specifically with Herbert Hoover and his depression-ridden
                    administration.  It is a much needed study because too often the
                    Hoover administration has been presented as the tail end of the roaring twenties or the beginning of
                    the New Deal rather than as an entity worth studying for itself.
            Professor Warren begins by putting Hoover in the context of his times. He discusses the heritage of
                    normalcy, the rise of Hoover to political leadership, and the presidential campaign of 1928. Before
                    considering the depression and the problems it created, the author deals with Hoover's
                    inauguration, some of his ideas on social progress, the President's position on public
                    power, and the tariff question. Then, after a brief discussion of the background of the depression,
                    Hoover's program is traced in a series of topical chapters which include the RFC, the
                    Agricultural Marketing Act, relief, prohibition, the Bonus March, the campaign of 1932, and other
                    subjects.
            This book does very little to change the picture of Hoover as a depression president which has been
                    painted during the last twenty years by numerous historians and popular writers. We see Hoover as a
                    man so firmly chained by his ideas and principles that he could not adjust sufficiently to meet new
                    conditions and national needs. Despite the author's apparent attempt to elevate
                    Hoover's reputation as a leader in depression, the former president continues to suffer
                    under the sledge-hammer blows of Dr. Warren's own evidence. The author shows admirable
                    restraint, judiciousness, and objectivity in discussing Hoover and the Great Depression, but this
                    very objectivity destroys any attempt to rescue Hoover from all but his most severe critics.
            Professor Warren is correct in maintaining that Hoover should not be blamed for his failure to see
                    the depression coming. Neither should he be criticized for not doing more during the
                    depression's initial phases because, like most other Americans, Hoover considered the
                    depression just another normal drop in the business cycle. Hoover's weakness was his
                    failure to provide real leadership after 1931 when it became evident to millions
                    that the situation called for new and non-traditional remedies. Inflexible when flexibility was
                    called for, stubborn when compromise was necessary, Hoover did not fulfill the function of a leader
                    in critical times—which is to lead.
            Despite the fact that this book does not materially change the picture of Hoover or add new material
                    to our understanding of the depression, Professor Warren has written a useful synthesis. The
                    definitive account of this period, however, must await the opening of the Hoover Papers. If Hoover
                    and his supporters are dissatisfied with the treatment which Hoover has received, part of the fault
                    lies with the former president who, unlike Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, F#2 D. Roosevelt,
                    Harry Truman, and other former presidents, has refused to open his papers to research scholars. Even
                    in this respect, Hoover has shown an inflexibility and narrowness which characterized his handling
                    of the depression.
            However, just because the Hoover Papers were unavailable, there seems to be no excuse for the
                    author's not having examined the private papers of many political leaders of that period
                    which are open for study. One of the book's main weaknesses steins from exclusive reliance
                         upon published sources, although Professor Warren has used
                    these sources well. Examination of the files of the federal departments in the National Archives and
                    the papers of both Republican and Democratic leaders would have added much to this study. When the
                    papers of the principal are not available, it is the historian's task to study those of his
                    associates and contemporaries as the best means of reconstructing the most accurate history
                    possible. Unfortunately, this work still remains to be done in the case of Hoover and the Great
                    Depression.
            
               University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
                Gilbert C. Fite
         
         
            
               The Conservation Fight: From Theodore Roosevelt to the Tennessee Valley
                    Authority. By Judson King. (
                        Washington
                    : Public Affairs Press, 1959. Pp. xix, 316. References, index. $6.00.)
            The title of this book is somewhat misleading. While the author chose to call it The
                        Conservation Fight: From Theodore Roosevelt to the Tennessee Valley Authority, it is by no
                    means a survey of the whole conservation movement for those years. Rather, Judson King's
                    study is a documented account of the bitter conflict between the great private power interests and a
                    handful of conservationists who recognized that future needs of the American public would not be met
                    if all the choice sites for hydroelectric stations were granted or leased to private companies. The
                    author discusses the Muscle Shoals controversy; the Hetch Hetchy affair; the Federal Water Power Act
                    of 1920; Woodrow Wilson's stand for public ownership and operation of power plants; the
                    anti-public-power policies of Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover; 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt and the Tennessee Valley Authority; and the recent history of public power in
                    the Truman and Eisenhower administrations.
            This volume is more than a history of conservation achievement in relation to power. Here is a case
                    which illustrates the maxim that an institution is the lengthened shadow of one man. That one man
                    was Senator George Norris of 
                        Nebraska
                    , who led the fight for public ownership and operation of Muscle Shoals and promoted the
                    plan for regional development which ultimately embodied the Tennessee Valley Authority. Even though
                    there are three biographies about Norris, Judson King has recorded an aspect of Norris'
                    fight which is to be found nowhere else. He has captured exceedingly well the details of the long
                    struggle which resulted in the creation of TVA. The reader is presented with the "inside
                    story" of the victories and defeats of the conservation forces.
            There is not an uninteresting chapter to be found in this book. Although King was director of the
                    National Popular Government League and a participant in this phase of the conservation struggle, he
                    reserves the exposition of his own philosophy for the final chapter, "Retrospect and
                    Prospect." He believes that TVA is still very much alive and that the battle over it and
                    other federal resource programs will be continued as an issue in the 1960 elections and for
                    generations to come. His words are prophetic. On October 1 of this year TVA announced the
                    construction of a $100,000,000 steam electric-power generating plant at Paradise, 
                    
                        Kentucky
                    . Already under construction is the multimillion-dollar Barkley Dam and hydroelectric
                    plant on the 
                        Cumberland
                     River. In championing his cause the author points out a few facts which speak well for
                    TVA: the annual saving of $103,000,000 for civilian power consumers (which does not
                    include the tremendous savings of the government in power for defense); the fact that TVA is
                    actually $68,000,000 ahead of schedule in its Treasury payments; the in-lieu-of-taxes
                    payment of $45,000,000 to the states and counties of the valley, a sum which does not
                    include an additional $64,000,000 paid by municipalities and rural cooperatives.
            In looking at the future, conservationist King warns that with the tremendous growth of population
                    and the demands of modern industry we must take every means to conserve water. Further, he feels
                    that the only way to succeed in conserving our natural resources is through a unified conservation
                    administration. Resource problems must be above party politics and cannot be solved with policies
                    based on nineteenth-century concepts.
            
               The Conservation Fight is much more than a memoir of Judson King. It is a
                    documented study written with care. Each chapter is footnoted and sources are cited. Because of the
                    nature of the study, the author has drawn heavily upon the Congressional Record
                    and a myriad of House and Senate hearings, documents, and committee reports. Unfortunately, the
                    volume is slightly marred by printing errors which should have been corrected in proof.
            The author did not live to see his book in print. He finished the manuscript just two weeks before
                    his death on July 4, 1958. We are indebted to Judson King for his unceasing efforts on behalf of the
                    conservation of natural resources and for the written record which he has left behind.
            
               Indiana University Robert A. Frederick
         
         
            
               American Diplomacy: A History. By Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. xii, 576. Maps, illustrations, references,
                    appendix, index. $6.00.)
            This book is a welcome addition to the group of excellent textbooks now available on American
                    diplomatic history. It is somewhat shorter than the others; it supplies for each chapter a
                    well-selected and critically evaluated list of references; it reads easily enough to hold the
                    attention of the average undergraduate; and it reveals clearly the author's opinion on
                    practically every important subject of controversy. Its proportions are weighted heavily in favor of
                    the twentieth century; the author gives more than twice as much space to the years following as to
                    the years preceding 1900. But this does not mean that the earlier period is less carefully studied
                    than the later. Throughout the volume the author shows that he has read the books and articles to
                    which he refers, and he does not hesitate from time to time to name in the text the historians whose
                    findings he accepts or rejects. He quotes also, with considerable freedom and good effect, both from
                    source and secondary material. In short, this study adds up to an excellent  analysis of the position the 
                        United States
                     occupies in the contemporary diplomatic world, together with an admirable exposition of
                    the historical stages by which the nation arrived where it is.
            Congratulations are especially due the author on his willingness to state definite conclusions on
                    matters where historical judgment is divided. In general, he goes along with the latest theories
                    advanced, and they may not always be right. But undoubtedly the author reflects in most cases the
                    best current opinion among historians. A few instances will suffice to make this point clear. The
                    principal cause of the War of 1812, Ferrell asserts, was "freedom of the seas,"
                    despite the theories of Pratt, Hacker, and others; and he cites cogent evidence in favor of an
                    interpretation that takes us "right back where we started from." He brands the
                    attack on 
                        Mexico
                     in 1846 as "a war of aggression," while at the same time regretting
                    the absence of a Mexican statesman able enough and smart enough to sell what he could not defend, as
                    Napoleon sold Louisiana in 1803. Ferrell questions whether McKinley "could have defied the
                    war hawks of 1898 in Congress" and so prevented the war with 
                        Spain
                    . "If the Spanish government had granted 
                        Cuba
                     immediate independence, this alone might have prevented hostilities." He is
                    convinced that "there is no doubt that 
                        Germany
                    's submarine measures, above everything else, brought the 
                        United States
                     into the first World War." He blames "the traditionally isolationist
                    outlook of the American people toward foreign affairs" rather than the wilfulness of
                    Senator Lodge and his associates for American failure to ratify the Treaty of 
                        Versailles
                    . He concludes that "it defies common sense to believe that President F#2 D.
                    Roosevelt would have constructed in diabolical cleverness a Pacific back door to war" in
                    Pearl Harbor. He holds "American military unpreparedness, rather than any such factor as
                    public statements by the secretary of state or General MacArthur" (who said that
                    "only a lunatic would fight on the mainland of Asia"), responsible for the
                    Communist attack on South 
                        Korea
                    . These are courageous statements, for they will cost him adoptions that he might not
                    have lost by the safer noncommittal on-the-one-hand-on-the-other dodges.
            The one conspicuous flaw in the book is that the index is not adequately analytical. Long lists of
                    figures following an item are an irritation rather than a help.
            
               University of 
                     California, Berkeley
                  
                John D. Hicks
         
         
            
               An Economic History of the 
                            United States
                        . By Gilbert C. Fite and Jim E. Reese. (
                        Boston
                    : Houghton Mifflin Co., 1959. Pp. ix, 714. Illustrations, maps, charts, tables,
                    bibliography, index. $6.75.)
            
               American Economic History. By Donald L. Kemmerer and C. Clyde Jones. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. xvi, 680. Illustrations, maps, charts, tables,
                    bibliography, index. $7.75.)
            The two books listed above merit careful consideration by teachers and students of general American
                    history and especially by individuals interested in American economic history. Although written for
                    use as  textbooks in economic history, these volumes view
                    American history in a broad perspective. Professors Fite and Reese even bury one of the
                    "sacred cows" of many economists—that self-seeking "economic
                    man" often found in Chapter I of textbooks in economics—when in their Preface
                    they say: "Economic factors, however, are not the only important or motivating forces in
                    human life. Economic wants are strong, but men are also moved by religion, politics, morals, ethics,
                    and other influences." Professors Kemmerer and Jones are not so explicit as their
                    colleagues, Fite and Reese, have been on this point, but the approach and content of their book
                    suggest substantial agreement.
            Both volumes place emphasis on how and why American economic life has developed as it has. Their
                    authors wisely proceed upon the thesis that such knowledge is a necessary prerequisite to any
                    significant and meaningful understanding of present-day economic life and institutions.
                    Unfortunately this thesis has been largely ignored, or even rejected, by many economists, but this
                    fact does not alter its validity or essential wisdom. The overall chronological organization of
                    these books is similar. In each instance, the colonial era, the period from the American Revolution
                    to the Civil War, the years from the Civil War to World War I, and the years since 1914 are
                    appropriately treated as basic units. Within these four periods somewhat traditional emphasis is
                    given agriculture, manufacturing, labor, and transportation. In addition, considerable emphasis is
                    also given domestic and foreign trade, capital formation and expansion, banking, public finance, and
                    governmental regulation of the economy. These volumes stress mercantilism as a basic economic and
                    political philosophy of the eighteenth century, and the comments about the difficulties and
                    limitations arising from regulatory efforts of governments in pursuance thereof seem to have more
                    than accidental overtones regarding the governmental regulation of economic life which has developed
                    since the late nineteenth century. The productivity of the American economy and the steady rise in
                    personal income and wealth are stressed in these histories as remarkable achievements. Perhaps,
                    however, both accounts inadequately indicate that many Americans still live at a low economic level
                    for one reason or another. Another item which also seems to be underemphasized is the increasing
                    complexity of American economic life and the growing interdependence of its segments. The authors
                    have perhaps also given inadequate attention to the impact of this complexity and interdependence
                    upon the relation between government and business as well as upon the questions of the proper
                    nature, role, and end of government itself.
            Each volume has numerous useful maps, charts, tables, and graphs, as well as a selected bibliography.
                    On the whole, both books are interestingly and well written. Historians and economists will disagree
                    with estimates and "facts" at certain points, with occasional conclusions, and
                    sometimes with the emphasis or approach. But even so, these volumes nonetheless are significant
                    achievements within the limitations of existing information and scholarship.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Business Enterprise in its Social Setting. By Arthur H. Cole. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xiii, 286. Bibliography, notes, index. $5.50.)
            It is a pleasure to recommend this excellent volume to all who are concerned with the evolution and
                    operation of profit-oriented business enterprise. Dr. Cole, professor emeritus of business economics
                    and former librarian of Baker Library, 
                        Harvard
                     University, has long been one of the outstanding historians of the American business
                    scene. Here he presents the reflections of a lifetime of leadership in the community of those
                    interested in the study of economic and business history, particularly in the approach called
                    entrepreneurial history. At no time has this leadership been more satisfactorily displayed than in
                    the Janus quality of this work. Cole presents not only a backward look in the shape of an informed
                    survey of the significance of past studies of entrepreneurship, but also, and of even more interest
                    to researchers, a creative forward look in the form of a theoretical pattern or structure for the
                    study of entrepreneurship.
            But what is entrepreneurship to Dr. Cole? He uses the term in two ways: first, to refer to a function
                    or activity, and, second, to refer to the aggregate communality of those performing this function.
                    As a function it is "the purposeful activity (including an integrated sequence of
                    decisions) of an individual or group of individuals, undertaken to initiate, maintain, or aggrandize
                    a profit oriented business unit for the production or distribution of economic goods or services.
                    The aggregate of individuals which together and cooperatively develop the decisions might perhaps be
                    denominated the entrepreneurial team" (p. 7). "Decision making is the critical or
                    key operation in entrepreneur-ship" (p. 10). "To study the entrepreneur is to
                    study the central figure in modern economic development and, to my way of thinking, the central
                    figure in economics" (p. 28).
            Part I examines the nature of the entrepreneurial world in terms of structure and motivation. The
                    entrepreneur is conceived as operating "in the center of a series of concentric circles or
                    riding a log in the grip of a set of close and distant forces" (p. 233). In the innermost
                    circle, the relations between the entrepreneurs and their associates are described in terms of
                    sociological concepts of roles and sanctions. The changing roles and the sanctions that shape them
                    are discussed as affected by changes in control of the business units, by their increasing
                    complexity, and by the rising sense of public and social responsibility among business executives.
            In the middle circle, the interaction of entrepreneurial units in the "entrepreneurial
                    stream" is described. This stream is a flow in which each unit performs more productively
                    than if acting alone, a circular and cumulative flow possessed of multiplier effects in which
                    productive, ancillary, and service institutions render mutual support in evolution and creativity,
                    and in which economic growth is aided by the "ever-swelling flood of business information
                    of all types" (p. 91). Nor are the elements of competition and monopoly in the interaction
                    of entrepreneurial units omitted from the discussion.
            
            In the outermost circle comes the impact of the "more general, the broader ranging elements
                    in human societies—the social conditioning of entrepreneurship" (p.
                    98)—the forces that influence the circumstances under which entrepreneurship comes into
                    existence, those that affect the quality of the talent attracted to it, and those that affect the
                    changing and manifold relationships of the rest of a given society with the entrepreneurial segment.
                    Thus a variety of forces influence the motivations, the modes of conduct, and the effectiveness of
                    the entrepreneurs—education, resources, governmental administration, ethnic coherences,
                    cultural forces, etc.
            "It is only by giving attention to such a broad assemblage of factors that one can hope to
                    give answers to such questions of prime importance for a study of economic development as: how the
                    system of production got into its present form? What makes it operate in the way that it does? Is
                    the performance getting better or worse? What is likely to happen in the future? Present-day
                    economics is not geared by its traditions, its methods, or its objectives to deal with such
                    questions. In a Western world devoted dominantly to private enterprise, only a type of economics
                    with a time dimension in which entrepreneurial activity is the central thread can hope to render
                    enlightening answers" (p. 134).
            Part II presents a series of descriptive essays surveying in the light of the approach outlined in
                    Part I the field of writing upon entrepreneurship. Many of the essays cover the work of the
                    Entrepreneurial Center in Entrepreneurial History at 
                        Harvard
                     University during the time from 1948 to 1958 when Dr. Cole played such a central role,
                    but many draw upon the studies of others stimulated to an approach similar to that of the 
                        Harvard
                     group. These essays center around "the relations of entrepreneurs to social
                    classes, to primitive economic conditions, to technological changes, to the different forms of
                    economic organization, and to government" (p. 139) in a search for the discoveries of
                    uniformities and generalizations which will be useful for further explorations.
            The book closes with a summary essay on the process of entrepreneurial change. The range of
                    information, the insights, and the fruitful suggestions for further study are too numerous and
                    significant to be suggested in a review. It is in the belief that perusal of this work will be
                    provocative and stimulating to all who are interested in business enterprise in its social setting
                    that we recommend its careful study.
            
               Indiana University Joseph A. Batchelor.
         
         
            
               The Wisconsin Business Corporation. By George J. Kuehnl. (
                        Madison
                    : University of Wisconsin Press, 1959. Pp. x, 284. Tables, notes, indices.
                    $6.50.)
            General and local studies about the business corporation and its role in American economic life have
                    increased in number, scope, and significance during the last quarter century as is indicated in the
                    Preface to the volume under review. In The Wisconsin Business
                    
                    Corporation George J. Kuehnl gives primary emphasis to the types of business
                    corporations which developed in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He discusses their legal and constitutional status and governmental activities
                    regarding their promotion and regulation, principally from the 1830's through the
                    1870's.
            Mr. Kuehnl has done laborious and detailed research concerning Wisconsin business corporations for
                    the period indicated. Moreover, he has at least made a reconnaissance of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's political history and development for the period of his study. He makes
                    clear that the question of the appropriate relationship between business and government and the
                    issue of "honesty" in such relations were not something new when these and related
                    questions were brought to state and national attention by Governor Robert M. LaFollette and the
                    Wisconsin Progressives early in the twentieth century. Mr. Kuehnl's tabulations and
                    summaries about the various business corporations are useful, and he shows beyond doubt that the
                    provisions of early business charters were generally loosely drawn and often drafted or approved by
                    legislators directly involved in their success or failure.
            A pioneering study in an important area, however, is seldom as effectively done as is desirable. This
                    volume suffers from poorly digested and organized massive detail. It is difficult reading and is
                    unduly repetitious. Its main ideas are often hard to follow. Page nine overlooks the two banks
                    chartered in Indiana in 1814, apparently because the years 1800–1809 were mistakenly used
                    as the period during which Indiana was a territory. This book was apparently inadequately edited and
                    developed. Nevertheless if its deficiencies are recognized, scholars can still find much of
                    significance in it.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               A History of American Labor. By Joseph G. Rayback. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1959. Pp. vi, 459. Bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            The literature of the American labor movement is immense, but few general histories of American labor
                    have been published. Of these, the Commons four-volume History of Labour in the 
                            United States
                        , completed in 1935, is the most comprehensive and the most scholarly. Since
                    the publication of the Commons history, there have been only two general histories of American
                    labor: American Labor History by Foster R. Dulles, published in 1949, and the
                    current work by Professor Rayback.
            The book is divided into three parts. Part I, "The Colonial and Revolutionary Era,"
                    includes a description of the colonial economy and an examination of the kinds, sources, and
                    conditions of colonial labor. Colonial experiments in regulating the conditions of labor are
                    described, and an interesting account is given of labor's role in colonial politics and its
                    activities in support of the Revolution.
            Part II, "The Transitional Era," relates the story of American labor during its
                    formative years. It begins with a description of significant changes in the nature of economic
                    enterprise following the  Revolution and traces the development
                    of permanent trade unions from these early beginnings to the time of the formation of the American
                    Federation of Labor in 1886 and its successful struggle with the Knights of Labor. The fragile
                    nature of unions during this period, union efforts to remain organized in the face of hostile
                    government action and the activities of employers' associations, and frequent union
                    involvement in politics and reform movements are well presented.
            "The Modern Era" in the history of American labor begins around 1890 and for the
                    next fifty years the American Federation of Labor was the dominant labor organization. It was not,
                    however, an inevitable success. Professor Rayback describes its efforts to establish a strong and
                    stable labor movement based on the principle of craft unionism and economic action. From the
                    beginning it was involved in problems with the Knights, with "recalcitrant"
                    trades, with Socialism, with strike failures, and with a depression. From these early struggles of
                    the newly formed federation through the trying days of the great depression, the New Deal period,
                    and the rise of the CIO, Rayback presents an interesting description of events. He examines the
                    factors leading to the formation of the CIO and the period of struggle between the two federations;
                    he concludes with an analysis of the reunion movement and the efforts of labor to maintain New Deal
                    and Fair Deal achievements in the Eisenhower administration.
            Throughout the volume Professor Rayback has viewed the evolution of the labor movement against the
                    background of American economic, political, industrial, and social history. Especially worthy of
                    comment is the section on the Colonial and Revolutionary era. Though the book as a whole contains
                    little that is new in the way of interpretation or analysis, it is a well-written and interesting
                    history of American labor from the colonial period to the present day.
            
               Indiana, University D. W. Murphy
         
         
            
               Religion and American Democracy. By Roy F. Nichols. (Baton Rogue: Louisiana
                    State University Press, 1959. Pp. vii, 108. Notes, bibliography. $2.50.)
            Although its subtler processes remain to be explicated, a by-product of the religious revival of our
                    times is a burgeoning interest in the history of American religion. Not only have monographs on this
                    subject appeared with greater frequency, but increased attention to religious expressions of
                    economic, political, and social aspirations suggests the redress of a long standing imbalance in
                    American historical writing. Somewhat belatedly, members of the craft seem to be awakening to the
                    realization that the institutional divorce of church and state has not meant the rigid separation of
                    what our ancestors liked to call the sacred and the profane. Religion and American
                        Democracy is another witness to this alerted appreciation.
            Dean Nichols has restricted his treatment to the period prior to the Civil War, but he still has
                    uncorked a very large subject. That he has drawn out only a few drops is accounted for by extraneous
                    limitations.  The book issued from lectures delivered at Rice
                    University under the auspices of the Rockwell Fund. Consequently, to harp upon the neglect of the
                    Catholic and Jewish contributions to American political thought in favor of the Protestant and upon
                    the author's identification of the religiously legitimated with the religiously motivated
                    would be more revealing of a reviewer's querulousness than of the qualities of the volume.
            Despite the restrictions imposed by the format and the occasion, keen insights are revealed in the
                    book. The religious patterns of the colonial and revolutionary periods are viewed as decisive in
                    shaping the structure of government, while in the early nineteenth century religion helped to infuse
                    those governmental forms with a spirit of enlarged democracy. In its treatment of the later period
                    the book is especially satisfying. In linking reform movements and the sectional controversy to the
                    surge of evangelicalism, the author conveys a depth of meaning to ante-bellum political behavior
                    which is absent when events are regarded from alternative perspectives.
            The themes with which Dean Nichols deals lend themselves to prophecy, and he has concluded on an
                    admonitory note. The uniqueness of the American experience, Dean Nichols believes, has been its
                    liberating effect upon the individual, and religion has been of major significance in this
                    liberation. Now that forces within and without threaten to push the individual back into the mass,
                    Americans must summon again their sense of dedication and moral purpose. If, in their search for
                    wisdom to guide them and courage to inspire them, they overlook the historic intimacy of religion
                    and democracy, "they walk forward blindly deprived of the great light which is truly
                    theirs." The merits of this little volume, however, are quite independent of any prophetic
                    wisdom displayed therein. By the usual canons of historical writing it may be pronounced
                    intelligent, balanced, and readable.
            
               
                  
                            Washington
                         University Ralph Morrow
         
         
            
               The Pragmatic Revolt in American History: Carl Becker and Charles Beard. By
                    Gushing Strout. Yale Historical Publications, The Wallace Notestein Essays, Number
                    3. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1958. Pp. ix, 182. Bibliography, index.
                    $3.50.)
            This is a time for critical re-evaluations of the American liberal tradition, as evinced by a spate
                    of recent publications. In this volume Gushing Strout analyzes the contribution of the liberal
                    historians, Carl Becker and Charles Beard, to an American philosophy of history. As the author
                    admits, he has been forced to be both historian and philosopher in attempting to come to terms with
                    his subjects' search for meaning and synthesis in the chaotic process which their
                    relativism made of history. Although the text is studded with technical expressions like
                    "pragmatic relativism," "antiformalism," and
                    "technocratic rationalism," Mr. Strout, who provides a useful glossary in the
                    Introduction, has managed to discuss lucidly and understandably the theory and practice of these two
                    master craftsmen of the historical guild. The story as he tells it, however, is one of
                    tragedy—the tragedy of failure  to transcend the
                    positivism of history-as-science which they attacked so successfully and to construct a viable
                    philosophy of history for the present age.
            Since there was little or no active collaboration between Beard and Becker, who were poles apart in
                    temperment and methodology, it is difficult to treat their work together in a short essay. The
                    author hurdles this obstacle well by devoting three separate chapters to each historian, pairing
                    their contributions to historical relativism, historical synthesis, and liberal ideology,
                    respectively, and adding brief introductions and a concluding critique. On the whole, Becker and his
                    study of "climates of opinion" come off better than Beard and his "frame
                    of reference" in Strout's analysis. While Strout sees Beard falling victim to his
                    own relativism, subscribing to a devil theory of history in his two postwar books on F#2 D.
                    Roosevelt's foreign policy, he has nothing harsher to say of Becker than that his
                    "intellectual charm, the bitter-sweet mood of a disenchanted urbanity, has a certain
                    fragility" (p. 133). Mr. Strout not only links the two historians' similar attacks
                    on scientific history but also stresses their common faith in Utopian goals to be reached through
                    social and technological progress. Yet the contrasts between them stand out sharply:
                    Beard's iconoclastic temper and Becker's cool detachment; Becker's
                    imaginative treatment of men and ideas and Beard's insistence upon some kind of economic
                    interpretation of history.
            Although one might wish for a lengthier and more elaborate exposition of the intellectual background
                    of the movement of ideas Strout describes, the Introduction provides a concise and thoughtful guide
                    to the climate of opinion from which the pragmatic revolt in American history sprang. The author
                    gives more credit for initiating the revolt to Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner—who certainly influenced both Becker and Beard—than to
                    those prophets of the New History, James Harvey Robinson and Harry Elmer Barnes. He also emphasizes
                    the American setting more than European influence. Both Becker and Beard, especially the latter,
                    drew much from Croce, Mannheim, and others, but it is the author's contention that they
                    "scanned these foreign philosophies with an alien and eclectic eye and often saw in them
                    only the reflected image of their own purposes, shaped by an American tradition" (p. 28).
            Throughout, Strout plays the part of severe but friendly critic, refuting the Becker-Beard outlook by
                    philosophical argument where he can, but always showing high respect for their personal ability and
                    sincerity. At the end he recognizes Charles Beard and Carl Becker as intellectual pioneers who posed
                    new problems, rather than solving them, for their successors. Their skeptical criticism destroyed
                    the fallacies of an untenable historical positivism. Yet as disillusioned pragmatists who sought a
                    way out of relativism they could advance no farther than their positivistic predecessors. This, I
                    take it, is only an historiographical instance of the general dilemma of the whole liberal revolt
                    against formalism.
            This is an illuminating essay. The author has traced closely, but without polemic, some of the
                    weaknesses in the philosophical thinking and historical practice of two great historians. We
                    understand better their failures and their greatness.
            
               DePauw University Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
         
            
               The South: A Documentary History. By Ina Woestemeyer Van Noppen. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., 1958. Pp. xvi, 564. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $6.75.)
            Mrs. Van Noppen's collection of primary materials covers a range of time from the Spanish
                    explorations of the sixteenth century to the present, and it touches upon nearly every important
                    regional development in those four centuries. Travel accounts, reminiscences, letters, speeches,
                    military reports, newspaper and magazine articles and editorials, polemics, and imaginative
                    literature illustrate the economic, political, social, and cultural changes in the South. About half
                    the documents depict the Old South, about half the period since secession. Many selections come from
                    well-known authors—for example, Fanny Kemble, Frederick Law Olmsted, James S. Buckingham,
                    William H. Russell, George 
                        Washington
                     Cable—but a great many more will seem fresh even to long-time students of
                    Southern history. Mrs. Van Noppen says in her Preface that she has been collecting the documents for
                    twenty years, and her careful winnowing is shown both by the diversity and by the quality of her
                    choices.
            Editorial comment varies considerably in nature and value. Nearly all of the documents have brief
                    introductions indicating the text used by the compiler and sometimes the importance of the
                    testimony, but only seven of the twenty-two chapters have general introductory statements on the
                    setting and developments which the documents of the chapter are intended to illustrate. Often,
                    however, general comments preface subdivisions within chapters, and some of the introductions to
                    particular documents serve the same kind of broad purpose. The failure to use a consistent form and
                    style of editorial introduction occasionally throws too much of the burden of interpretation of the
                    documents upon the reader and results in a book that is unsatisfying because of its lack of
                    symmetry.
            Although the titles of chapters and their subdivisions usually indicate thoughtful attention to
                    organization of the material, the arrangement of the documents is sometimes confusing. Frequently
                    there is little regard for chronology within a rather long period of time. And since the same source
                    may be used to illustrate different subjects, short excerpts from the same author may appear in
                    several places in the book, or even in the same chapter. Often the quotations are too brief; when
                    one begins to savor a good course, he is annoyed when the dish is snatched away and a new one
                    substituted for it. I would have been happier to have had fewer and longer documents than the editor
                    includes, through her assiduous use of ellipses and shortening both fore and aft.
            Mrs. Van Noppen perhaps tries to include too much in her book; no collection of documents, however
                    rich, is a substitute for a library. Her publishers should have imposed more consistency in form of
                    editorial comment, and closely akin to that, might have produced a book more pleasing in design. But
                    whatever unsatisfactory features the book may have, there is nothing else like it, and it should be
                    very useful as a supplement to text and lectures in undergraduate courses in Southern history.
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                J. Merton 
                        England
                    
            
         
         
         
            
               The Government and Administration of 
                            Illinois
                        . By Neil F. Garvey. American Commonwealths Series. Edited by
                    W. Brooke Graves. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1958. Pp. xvi, 622. Frontispiece, tables, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $8.00.)
            This is the eleventh volume of the American Commonwealths Series, a monumental
                    effort under the leadership of W. Brooke Graves, of the Library of Congress, to produce a separate
                    major study on the government and administration of each of the American states. In approach the
                    books are very closely parallel and largely follow a common outline.
            Illinois is, of course, one of the most populous and varied of the states, and its government has
                    many interesting features. It has many of the characteristic holdovers of the thickly settled rural
                    Midwest of a century ago—a great number of small units of local government, a multitude
                    of popularly elected officials ranging from state superintendent of public instruction to coroner to
                    township supervisors and justices of the peace, and very low constitutional limits on public
                    indebtedness. The necessity of adapting government structure to modern conditions has produced many
                    changes in 
                        Illinois
                    , however. For example, the state was the first in the nation, in 1917, to effectuate a
                    sweeping reorganization and integration of its administrative agencies; its legislature is
                    comparatively well staffed and well paid; there have been significant recent experiments in state
                    personnel administration and in state action making non-property tax revenue sources available to
                    local governments.
            A towering fact in the political and governmental pattern of twentieth-century Illinois is the
                    concentration of half or more of the state's total population in the 
                        Chicago
                     metropolitan area. While 
                        Chicago
                     and down-state Illinois have traditionally had differing political orientations, a
                    multimember district system permitting a degree of proportional representation in the
                    state's house of representatives has tended to confuse these differences in legislative
                    matters. The urgency and complexity of some of the 
                        Chicago
                     area problems have frequently diverted the attention of this half of the
                    state's population from the government of the state.
            This book, like others in the American Commonwealths Series, is designed as a text
                    and reference book. It is basically descriptive and factual, and there are few attempts at deep or
                    unusually perceptive analysis. Nearly half the book is concerned with the content of various
                    substantive programs of the state government. For scholars in other states, it will serve as a
                    valuable reference book on the governmental arrangements and programs, at this point in time, of one
                    of America's greatest states; and it will probably be an indispensable text for students
                    within 
                        Illinois
                    .
            
               Indiana University York Willbern
         
         
            
               The State Legislative Institution. By Jefferson B. Fordham. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of Pennsylvania Press, 1959. Pp. 109. $2.75.)
            The scholarly Dr. Fordham, dean of the Pennsylvania Law School, builds a strong case for
                    strengthening the state legislatures. It is based on the theory that present demands upon
                    legislatures to solve the  problems of urbanization and regional
                    or area situations, coupled with the traditional strong states' role demanded for a
                    successful "American Federalism," may too be exacting for present legislative
                    processes. Dean Fordham's desire to strengthen the legislative process of the states is
                    heightened by his dislike of continually turning to the federal government for aid.
            The development of a stronger legislative process within the states has been hampered by many
                    constitutional limitations such as the restricted length of sessions, the fact that only the
                    governor can call special sessions and that in twenty-two states he specifies the subject or
                    subjects to be considered, and requirements similar to the one that a bill be read on three
                    different days.
            Some states have tried to strengthen their legislative processes by creating a legislative council,
                    which Dr. Fordham calls recognition of the "lack of continuity in the work of state
                    legislatures and the weakness of their standing committees" (p. 70). He comments favorably
                    on the results obtained in states where the interim group works to "shape and put forward
                    legislative proposals" (p. 70) as is done by the Indiana Legislative Advisory Committee.
            Dr. Fordham boldly states that to correct present conditions major steps must be taken by
                    establishing unicameral legislatures; removing constitutional restrictions; establishing legislative
                    continuity—giving standing committees power to issue summons and hold hearings (even
                    though Fordham feels that there are still no adequate rules of fair procedure provided in Congress);
                    and establishing fewer but strengthened committees.
            Mr. Fordham forcefully presents his case for modification of the present system, but he realistically
                    accepts the fact that these changes will occur slowly if at all.
            
               Indiana University Donald H. Clark
         
         
            
               Microfilm: A History, 1839–1900. By Frederic Luther. (
                        Annapolis
                    , Md.: The National Microfilm Association, 1959. Pp. 195. Illustrations, index. For
                    members of the National Microfilm Association, $4.50; for non-members, $7.50.)
            The historian is constantly indebted to microfilm files in which have been preserved the perishable
                    records of the past, but seldom has he thought of how this research tool was developed. Frederic
                    Luther presents the first half of this story in his very readable and informative non-technical
                    history. Under the auspices of the National Microfilm Association, the author has gathered together
                    the highly fragmented and scattered material about nineteenth-century microfilm as part of the
                    association's "Centennial of Microfilm Progress 1859–1959."
            The main story revolves around the lives of John Benjamin Dancer (1812–1887), the English
                    scientist who made the first known microcopy of a document in 1839, and Rene Prudent Dagron
                    (1819–1900), the French photographer who was granted the first microfilm patent in 1859.
                    Dancer receives only passing treatment, and Dagron, the colorful  practical businessman, commands most of the remainder of the study. Great emphasis is placed on
                    the siege of 
                        Paris
                     in 1870 and Dagron's part in the birth of microfilm air mail. The author
                    becomes so engrossed in the romance of this period that he digresses from his main theme into the
                    story of balloons and carrier pigeons. The total effect of the first part of the book, therefore, is
                    that of a series of essays on life in 
                        France
                     in the 1870's with the history of microfilm superimposed upon it.
            The remaining half of the book contains technical materials which support and supplement the
                    preceding section. These include a chronology of microfilm developments and biographical notes
                    connected with nineteenth-century microfilming, an outline of three of the important microfilm
                    processes of this period, and selected bibliographical material on Dagron and Dancer, including a
                    list of the existing Dancer microfilms and their locations. Of interest in this section are the
                    author's translations of two of Dagron's pamphlets, Traite de
                        Photographie Microscopique and La Paste Par Pigeons Voyageurs. Even the earlier digressions
                    are supported with a chapter on "Balloon Services during the Siege of 
                        Paris
                    " and another on "The Homing Pigeon Service,
                    1870–71."
            In keeping with the author's devotion to microfilm, this volume has been issued in a limited
                    printed edition, but its permanency in print has been assured "through the issuance
                    simultaneously of copies in microfilm and microprint formats" (p. 4). A more complete
                    annotated bibliography is contained in the microformat editions than in the printed one.
            
               Indiana University Bruce R. Buckley
         
         
            
               The Play-Party in Indiana. By Leah 
                        Jackson
                     Wolford. Edited and revised by W. Edson 
                        Richmond
                     and William Tillson. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Volume
                    XX, Number 2. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1959. Pp. 103–326. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.00.)
            When the state of Indiana observed its centennial in 1916, The Play-Party in
                    Indiana was published by the Indiana Historical Commission in connection with that celebration.
                    For her text, the author, Leah 
                        Jackson
                     Wolford, had further developed her master's thesis which had been written at
                    the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , where she obtained her degree in 1915.
            Play parties were a common form of entertainment for pioneer generations which, bereft of machines,
                    had to amuse themselves by singing, dancing, and acting traditional songs and games without
                    instrumental accompaniment. Mrs. Wolford's original text contained fifty-eight of these
                    games arranged alphabetically, with the words, tunes, directions for playing them, and abundant
                    notes.
            The new edition published by the Indiana Historical Society is neither a true revision nor an
                    enlargement; it is primarily a rearrangement. The reinforcement of Messieurs 
                        Richmond
                     and Tillson lies almost entirely in a systematization based on the number of directions
                    for the  games contained in the words of the songs—a
                    classification which had been suggested by an early reviewer. It does seem, however, that for the
                    student of music, literature, and folklore, or for that person interested in local color, this
                    collection of folk songs and games is herewith available in a more organized and usable form.
            
               Indiana University Eileen Appleton
         
         
            
               Kingston Before the War of 1812: A Collection of Documents. Edited by Richard A.
                    Preston. Ontario Series, Volume III. (
                        Toronto
                    : University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press, for the Champlain Society and the Government of 
                        Ontario
                    , 1959. Pp. cxvi, 428. Illustrations, maps, appendices, bibliography, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            This volume is third in the series of regional documentary histories of Ontario being prepared by the
                    Champlain Society under the sponsorship of the government of 
                        Ontario
                    . Documents relating to the pioneer stage, the French period, of the history of the
                    Kingston area were published by the society in an earlier volume entitled Royal Fort
                        Frontenac. Effective English possession of the region dates from 1760 when General Amherst
                    won control of 
                        Montreal
                    . The present study is a collection of materials illustrating English settlement and
                    control of the region.
            Kingston is described, at the beginning of the nineteenth century, as "the leading centre of
                    what is now the Province of 
                        Ontario
                    —in fact, if not in name" (p. vii). Its importance was derived from
                    its location at the junction of the St. Lawrence River and Lake 
                        Ontario
                    . In the period after the French and Indian War, products bound for new settlements near
                    Lake Ontario and Lake 
                        Erie
                     and products of that region seeking an outlet traveled by the St.
                    Lawrence—Lake Ontario route. Kingston with its large harbor at the junction of lake and
                    river was a natural center for trans-shipment of goods to and from sailing vessels used on the lake
                    and the bateaux on the river. Britain's retention of the western posts after the American
                    Revolution re-emphasized the importance of the St. Lawrence—Lake Ontario line.
                    Consequently Kingston became an important naval base and garrison town. About one-fifth of the
                    documents relate to the strategic importance of Kingston and supply a good description of the
                    economy of the area. The role of the Loyalists in the development of the townships is also well
                    presented.
            In 1791 the Province of Upper 
                        Canada
                     was established, marking the successful completion of the settlement stage. The editor
                    has noted this fact in the organization of both the introduction and documentary section of the book
                    by presenting the material in a chronological pattern to 1792 and arranging it topically thereafter.
                    Beginning with Carleton Island, the forerunner of British settlement at Kingston, the collection
                    covers the preparation for the settlement of Loyalists, the Loyalists awaiting resettlement, and the
                    establishment of the townships to 1792. The documents from 1792 to 1812 are designed to illustrate
                    Kingston's particular contribution to the economic, military, naval, religious,
                    educational, political, and social life of the province.
            
            The materials presented here will add little insight on the national significance of the Kingston
                    settlement but will throw additional light on life in a pioneer community. In this connection the
                    papers relating to the role of the Church of 
                        England
                     plus the activities of the Methodists (Appendix II) seem most significant. Many of the
                    documents from the Public Archives of 
                        Canada
                     and transcripts from the Haldimand Papers in the British Museum are appearing in print
                    for the first time. On the whole, the pages allotted to the various topics are well balanced and
                    provide an overall view of the community. A detailed introduction by Richard Preston, making
                    extensive use of the documents, lends value to the work. The illustrations add to the attractiveness
                    of the book, but a good map of Upper 
                        Canada
                     is lacking. The sketch included is most inadequate.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University Allan J. McCurry
         
         
            
               The Art of Navigation in 
                            England
                         in Elizabethan and Early Stuart Times. By D. W. Waters. Foreword by the Earl
                    Mountbatten of 
                        Burma
                    . (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1968. Pp. xxxix, 696. Numerous illustrations, diagrams,
                    appendices, bibliographies, index. $12.50.)
            Lieutenant Commander Waters has produced an extensive and scholarly work on the history of the
                    development of English navigation during the seventy years from the time of the
                    Willoughby-Chancellor expedition to the death of Captain John Smith in 1631. The author's
                    career in the Royal Navy combined with painstaking research in the Historical Section of the Naval
                    Staff have enabled him to publish and edit a number of works on ships and navigation, of which this
                    is the best. The book is well made up; the type is clear and legible; eighty-seven plates, showing
                    navigational instruments, and forty-three diagrams and figures on navigation and the use of
                    instruments are well distributed with relation to the text. Attention to detail is evinced by the
                    fact that there are, for example, ten columns in the index with over seven hundred specific page
                    references on the item of instruments. There is a valuable table of Lords High Admiral in Appendix
                    33; the appendices generally contain a wealth of source materials. The highly technical nature of
                    the work is indicated by the fact that on page 352 there is a complete table of angles to 90 degrees
                    with sines, cosines, and tangents, while there are ten or more pages on logarithms in use at the
                    time the author discusses, with tables of ships' logs. The reader need not be a
                    mathematician, but if he is, he will have a better understanding of this rather stupendous treatment
                    of a highly technical subject.
            Among controversial topics, Mr. Waters offers strong arguments against the theory that the Chinese
                    compass was introduced into the West by the Arabs, his conclusion being that the compass as used by
                    western navigators was indigenous to their own part of the world. Although allowing for indirect
                    Portugeuse influence, he pays tribute to the Spanish as offering basic training to English
                    navigators. Waters points out that Stephen Borough, Chancellor's successor as chief pilot
                         of the Muscovy Company, visited 
                        Spain
                     in 1558, where he was so impressed with Martin Cortes' Arte de
                        Navigar that he introduced it into 
                        England
                    ; there it was translated by Richard Eden and came to influence the science of
                    navigation.
            After a brief description of the beginnings of oceanic navigation under Sebastian Cabot and of the
                    rise of the Royal Navy under Henry VIII, Mr. Waters gives a fuller treatment of the entire history
                    of navigation under Elizabeth I, with interesting accounts of the building of the Ark
                        Royal by 
                        Raleigh
                    , the ship's sale to the government, and its subsequent career. The founding of
                    Trinity House Corporation in 1514 to advance navigation and train pilots is described. There is also
                    included the significant information that lighthouses were built and maintained by private
                    individuals. The career of Captain John Smith is recounted, including his own dramatic description
                    of the navigation of a ship in a storm, an ordeal followed by a victorious clash with a Spanish
                    ship. The book concludes with the death of Smith in 1631, by which time the art of navigation had
                    become fairly complex and English navigators had to be well-versed in geometry, trigonometry, and
                    astronomy. By that time, also, corrections had been developed in the compass for the magnetic pole,
                    and seamen were sailing by the Great Circle.
            There is very little to be said in criticism of this book. The bibliography is comprehensive,
                    particularly in the use of Hakluyt's works. The only notable omissions are two: The Fifteenth Report of the Historical Manuscripts Commission, which contains
                    valuable papers of F. J. S. Foljambe, particularly on the Royal Navy in 1588, and George B.
                    Manhart's The English Search for a Northwest Passage in the Time of Queen
                        Elizabeth. But these omissions detract little from a work which is scholarly and, one may
                    say, definitive.
            
               DePauw University Coen G. Pierson
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Virginians at Home: Family Life in the Eighteenth Century. Second printing. By
                    Edmund S. Morgan. 
                  
                            Williamsburg
                         in America Series, Volume II. (
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va.: Colonial 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Inc., [1959]. Pp. ix, 99. Illustrations, note on sources, index. $2.75.)
            This small book by Edmund S. Morgan is second in a series of "popular histories of 
                        Williamsburg
                     and Tidewater Virginia in the eighteenth century." In it Morgan describes the
                    upbringing and education of young people, courtship and marriage customs, the position of women, the
                    life and status of indentured servants and slaves, houses, family customs, and social life. Although
                    the author touches upon life and customs among the small farmers of the Piedmont and among the
                    Scotch-Irish in the Shenandoah Valley, he concerns himself largely with family life among the
                    Tidewater aristocrats, in accord with the scope of the 
                  
                            Williamsburg
                         in America Series. Perhaps also, the emphasis in his treatment of the several
                    social groups in Virginia has been influenced by availability of sources, for the well-educated
                    citizens of the Tidewater no doubt left a fuller record of their ways in the form of diaries and
                    letters than did the humbler folk of the Piedmont and the valley. In any case, Morgan has written a
                    spritely and informative narrative in which he has made singularly effective use of the apt
                    quotation.
            
               Historian's Handbook: A Key to the Study and Writing of History. By Wood
                    Gray et al. (
                        Boston
                    : Houghton Mifflin Co., 1959. Pp. vi, 58. Paperbound, $1.00.)
            A highly distilled guide for historical research and writing, Historian's
                        Handbook contains suggestions for selection of a topic for investigation, lists of the more
                    important bibliographical aids, and information on the taking of notes and their evaluation. The
                    remaining one-third of the booklet is devoted to instructions for putting the results of research
                    into acceptable written form. Although its brevity limits its usefulness, the Handbook has a surprising amount of information crammed onto its pages. The would-be historian
                    will find it a helpful introduction to historical method and its footnotes miniature essays on the
                    bibliography of that subject.
            
               Organizing a Local Historical Society. By Clement M. Silvestro. Bulletins of the American Association for State and Local History, Volume II, No. 8. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: American Association for State and Local History, 1959. Pp. 189–220.
                    Appendices. Paperbound, $ .75.)
            In this bulletin, Clement M. Silvestro, executive secretary of the American Association for State and
                    Local History, briefly discusses the values and functions of local historical societies, but his
                    principal emphasis is on practical suggestions regarding the organization of such societies.
                    Appendices offer sample copies of articles of incorporation, a constitution, and a set of bylaws,
                    which are useful guides in drafting these documents during the formation of new groups. For further
                         information interested persons may write Mr. Clement M.
                    Silvestro, American Association for State and Local History, 
                        Madison
                     6, 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            
               The Museum: A Living Book of History. By Edward P. Alexander. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne State University Press, for the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, 1959. Pp. 22. Bibliography. Paperbound, $1.25.)
            As the tenth annual Cass lecturer for the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, Edward P. Alexander sketches the development and present status of
                    museums in the 
                        United States
                    . In this lecture Mr. Alexander notes the natural connection between museums and
                    historical societies, a connection illustrated by the fact that his sponsor, the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, had opened a museum in 1928. He also notes recent trends toward
                    rotating exhibits, orientation programs, and extension programs. But Mr. Alexander warns that
                    orientation films, art work and labels, and the like can be overdone.
            
               Publication Guide for Literary and Linguistic Scholars. By 
                        Milton
                     Bruce Byrd and Arnold L. Goldsmith. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne State University Press, 1958. Pp. xiii, 146. Paperbound, $1.95.)
            This guide attempts to summarize policies and preferences of some 180 American and Canadian
                    periodicals to "help solve some of the problems of busy scholars, critics, and
                    editors." Though obviously a pioneer work with gaps and inadequacies, Professors Byrd and
                    Goldsmith's Guide offers much useful information to authors seeking
                    publication outlets for literary and historical articles. Of particular value is the Foreword by
                    William Riley Parker with its suggestions to both scholars and authors. If Professor
                    Parker's suggestions were generally followed, perhaps fewer manuscripts would be submitted,
                    but very likely more and better articles would be published in scholarly periodicals.
            
               Rand McNally Abridged Historical Atlas: A Selection of Historical Maps from Atlas of
                        World History. Edited by R. R. Palmer et al. (
                        New York
                    : Rand McNally & Co., 1958. Pp. 48. Paperbound, $ .95.)
            Rand McNally's inexpensive Abridged Historical Atlas contains thirty some
                    maps illustrating the development of western civilization and its world-wide expansion. The maps are
                    clearly presented, without undue crowding of locations. Various of the maps are equally useful to
                    students of American and European history.
         
         
         
            The Francis Parkman Prize for 1959
            The Society of American Historians announces that it will award a cash prize of $500 and
                    an inscribed scroll for excellence in scholarship and literary style to the author of a volume
                    published during 1959 in the field of American history or biography. The prize is intended to
                    encourage the writing of history as literature, and books submitted to competition must combine
                    sound historical scholarship and literary distinction. A committee appointed by the society will
                    make the award during the winter of 1960. Further information about the Parkman Prize may be
                    obtained by writing Rudolf A. Clemen, Executive Vice President, The Society of American Historians,
                    Inc., 
                        Princeton
                     University Library, 
                  Princeton, New Jersey
               .
         
         
            The William P. Lyons Master's Essay Award
            The Department of History at Loyola University, 
                        Chicago
                    , in cooperation with the Loyola University Press will publish the best
                    master's essay among those submitted by students of history who have received the degree
                    during 1959–1960. A committee of scholars from Loyola and other universitites will select
                    the essay to be published on the basis of exemplary scholarship and style. The closing date for the
                    submission of manuscripts is July 15, 1960. Those who wish to enter the competition should write
                    Professor Edward T. Gargan, Department of History, Loyola University, 6525 Sheridan Road, 
                        Chicago
                     26, llinois.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
