
   ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 70, Issue 4, pages 283-374. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:70+issue:4+year:1974&browseMode=source
    
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
      
      
    
    
      
      
        From 
            Jeffersonville
           to the Klondike: The Howard Shipyard's Alaskan Contract
        Richard B. Wathen*
        Anyone at all familiar with the history of steamboats in the heartland of the 
            United States
           has heard of the fine reputation of the Howard Shipyards at 
            Jeffersonville
          , Indiana. In the days of the romantic sidewheelers in the middle of the last century,
                    Howard built boats were among the fastest, most luxurious, and longest lasting in the booming
                    freight and passenger trade throughout the valleys of the 
            Mississippi
           and its tributaries. From the firm's inception in 1834 through the disruptions
                    of the Civil War, the prosperity of the postwar King Cotton period, and the shift to coal and lumber
                    transport, the Howards' boats plied the 
            Missouri
          , the Yazoo, the 
            Arkansas
          , the Red, and the Ouachita rivers, among others.1
        

        At the end of the nineteenth century, however, the Howard Company undertook to build four wood
                    burning 
            * Richard B. Wathen, an attorney from 
                Jeffersonville
              , Indiana, has represented 
                Clark County
               in the Indiana General Assembly since 1972. He is also first vice president and
                            former president of the 
                Clark County
               Historical Society and Howard Steamboat Museum, Inc., and has previously
                            published accounts of the Howard Shipyards' Alaskan venture in the 
                Louisville
              
              Times, December 27, 1968, and in the 
                Indianapolis
              
              Star, March 23, 1969. The author is grateful to Viola Wathen Sheehan and
                            Walter H. Kiser for research in the preparation of this article. Unless otherwise indicated,
                            the pictures in this article were provided by the author, courtesy Howard Steamboat Museum, 
                Jeffersonville
              .
            
              1 See Louis C. Hunter, with the assistance of Beatrice Jones Hunter,
                                Steamboats on the Western Rivers: An Economic and Technological
                            History (
                Cambridge
              , Mass., 1949), 107; or Charles Henry Ambler, A History of
                                Transportation in the Ohio Valley, With Special Reference to Its
                                Waterways, Trade, and Commerce from the Earliest Period to the Present Time
                            (Glendale, Calif., 1932), 426. Charles Preston Fishbaugh, From Paddle Wheels to
                                Propellers: The Howard Ship Yards of 
                  Jeffersonville
                 in the Story of Steam Navigation on the Western Rivers (
                Indianapolis
              , 1970), chronicles the "Ruth," the "Robert E. Lee
                            II," the "City of 
                Louisville
              ," the "Frank Pargoud," the fabulous "J. M.
                            White," and other Howard built boats.
          
           sternwheelers for Klondike gold rush traffic on the remote
                    Yukon River, a quarter of the way around the globe, and sent a party of over a hundred
                        Ohio Valley men to the Aleutian Island of Unalaska to set them up. That the 
            San Francisco
           based Alaska Commercial Company would contract with the distant 
            Jeffersonville

           yards for the job bears extraordinary tribute to the extent of the Howards'
                    reputation. Yet this unique episode receives scant attention in the only published complete history
                    of the firm, Charles Preston Fishbaugh's From Paddle Wheels to
                    Propellers. The three packets and one towboat are merely listed in an appendix.2 Perhaps because the expedition is so unique in the history of the yards or perhaps because
                    written materials on the contract are relatively sparse, Fishbaugh chose not to describe how the
                    venture was undertaken or carried out. In fact, the story adds impressive and colorful evidence
                    attesting to the national and international importance of the Howard yards and also provides a
                    glimpse into an event that must have had a sizable impact on the lives of dozens of Howard employees
                    from 
            Jeffersonville
          , New 
            Albany, Madison, Cincinnati
          , and 
            Louisville
           who traveled so far to do the job.
        In early 1898 the Falls Cities were abuzz with news from the Klondike. In the first week of February
                    of that year the 
            Louisville
          
          Courier-Journal devoted space to four lengthy stories about the Alaskan gold rush.
                    One headline of February 2 read: "Destitution Declared to Prevail in Klondike. Only
                    7% Able to Earn a Livelihood." All the items were not so gloomy, however. On
                    February 5 the same paper ran a piece about the many railroads that were being projected for Alaska,
                    an indication that the population there would be permanent. Of greater interest to the Howards must
                    have been the assertion two days later: "Even at this early day the full capacity of every
                    steam and sailing ship on the Pacific Coast is… [strained] to its utmost capacity to
                    carry the passenger and freight that is being offered" in the Klondike.3 Many 
            Louisville
           area residents had left to seek their fortunes in Alaska or were planning to do so. The
                    New 
            Albany

           Mining Company was organized in February, 1898, to operate in the Klondike, and a
                    Martin Crane of 
            
              2 Fishbaugh, From Paddle Wheels to Propellers, 208.
            
              3
              
                Louisville
              
              Courier-Journal, February 2, 5, 7, 1898.
          
           New 
            Albany

           was reported to have been offered $60,000 for the Klondike claim he shared
                    with three companions.4
        

        Despite this excitement, the Howards appear to have been reluctant to participate in the flurry of
                    business activity associated with the Alaska gold rush. According to Mrs. Loretta Howard, widow of
                    the last owner of the Howard Shipyards, her father-in-law, Edmunds J. Howard was so flooded with
                    work in late 1897 that he submitted an outrageously high bid to build the four boats desired for the
                    Klondike trade by the Alaska Commercial Company: "Mr. Ed Howard quoted a price three times
                    as much as it should have been, thinking this would drive those Alaska people away. It
                    din't. They had to have those boats to take care of that Gold rush traffic. When they
                    accepted the price, we had to go ahead and fill our part of the bargain.'"5
        

        A letter to Gustave Hunt of the Alaska firm dated November 29, 1897, documents the contract. In it
                    the Howards proposed specifications for three passenger sternwheelers each 225 feet long with a 40
                    foot beam and a 6 foot hold and for a tow boat 165 feet long with a 36 foot beam and a 5 foot hold.
                    A note added at the bottom of the sheet states: "Accepted [by] Alaska Commercial
                        Co."6
        
        On December 3, 1897, the M. Zier Company of New 
            Albany

          , boiler and sheet iron works, sent the Howards specifications for machinery for two
                    sternwheel boats for the Yukon River.7 By February, 1898, Captain A. M. Hunt had
                    arrived in 
            Jeffersonville
           to discuss the plans with E. J. Howard. According to a Courier-Journal story of February 7, 1898, the building material was to be shipped to 
            New Orleans
           and on to 
            San Francisco
          , where the boats would be set up. This part of the plan must have been modified later,
                    because it is known that much of the construction took place on Unalaska. At this point, however,
                    100 men, forty from 
            Jeffersonville
          , were to spend eight months in 
            San Francisco

          , departing on February 16. The same story also stated that the Alaska Commercial
                    Company, with 5,500 employees, was 
            
              4 New 
                Albany
              
              Daily Ledger, February 7, 1898.
            
              5 Author's interview with Loretta Howard, July, 1968.
            
              6 Edmunds J. Howard to Gustave Hunt, November 29, 1897, Howard
                            Shipyards and Dock Company Manuscripts (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                Bloomington
              ).
            
              7 M. Zier & Co. to E. J. Howard, December 3, 1897, ibid.
            
          
          
          
            E. J. Howard
            

           one of the largest trading companies in the country, and that it had paid the government
                    five million dollars for its sealing privileges.8 A company this size could
                    afford to go far afield for the best, and the best apparently was considered to be the Howard
                    Company.

        Some of the men involved may have left approximately on the date mentioned in the article, because by
                    March 28, 1898, someone who identified himself only as "Old Nick" had settled down
                    sufficiently in the work camp on Unalaska to write a letter describing conditions there to one of E.
                    J. Howard's sons, Clyde. The letter, scratched out in pencil on 
            
              8
              
                Louisville
              
              Courier-Journal, February 7, 1898.
          
           blue lined paper, began: "poor old nick a few thousand
                    miles from home dont know how to spend a few leisure moments better so he will try and tell you some
                    thing about the work and the boys and the way we are living … We have two bunk houses
                    with Sixteen rooms to each house four men to the room."9
        

        Giving an insight into the quality of the relationship between the Howards and their employees, Nick
                    continued that he had the honor of posting a notice for the foreman which read: "This horse
                    shoe was presented to this Camp by Capt E J Howard A Mascott and must not be removed [.]"
                    Nick went on to relate: 
            The saw mill will start in the morning had steam today two of the big boats and the tow boat
                            are Set up Boat tops on and are now cutting down beams 
                Brown
               and I have'nt struck a tap on the boats we are fitting up the Office
                            … we work in rain and snow her[e] About three nice days is all we have had here.
                            The natives Call it fine wether [Geo?] Dunbar completed the telaphone line from
                            Huntsvill [the campsite] to [the village of] Unalaska wednesday[.]

           Nick also described sealskin coats and rugs that he could buy for Clyde and even enclosed a
                    sketch of a rug.10
        
        Although Nick may have left for Alaska in mid-February, it is perhaps more likely that he left with a
                    large group that was to depart from 
            Louisville
           on March 1, 1898. An article in the 
            Jeffersonville
          
          News of that date reads as follows: 
            Everything is now in readiness for the trip to Alaska by the ship carpenters who are to go
                            there to build boats for the Yukon River. Capt. A. M. Hunt who has attended to employing the
                            men has his list made out and the mechanics have arranged for the trip. The office of Capt.
                            Hunt was moved over to the Normandy Hotel, on Seventh Street in 
                Louisville
              , Wednesday and the place this morning was one of unusual activity and outfits
                            of all kinds are laying all around, and the place reminds one a great deal of a lot of
                            soldiers getting ready to go to war, who are awaiting arms and transportation.
            Tonight a special train of six cars will pull out of the Seventh Street Station at 8
                            o'clock and proceed over the 
                Illinois
               Central to 
                New Orleans
              . This will carry the carpenters who go to build the boats. There will be
                            something like 200 of them aboard the cars. Delegations came down yesterday from 
                Cincinnati
               and 
                Madison
              . They were joined last night by the 
                Louisville, Jeffersonville
               and New 
                Albany
               contingent.
            
              
                9 "Old Nick" to Clyde Howard, March 28, 1898,
                                Howard Company Manuscripts. Mr. Dunbar is mentioned as being in 
                  British Columbia
                 in James Rees and Sons Co. to E. J. Howard, May 13, 1899, ibid.
              
              
                10 "Old Nick" to Clyde Howard, March 28, 1898,
                                    ibid.
              
            
            
            
              Courtesy Richard Wathen
            
            The men who are to go from here as far as is known are: John Whitlow, Jake Meredith, Stape
                            Densford, William Gibson, William Braun, John Tucker, Otto Voit, Jesse Nash, William Glaser,
                            James Ritchie, Robert Allen, Frank Cook, James Eversole, Harry 
                Campbell
              , Ed Pettit, Charles Halfling, Henry Heyn, Bert Woodward, Russ Bowman and Mitch
                            Smith goes along to become pilot of the Yukon.
            As Alaska is not so very far north and is warmed up by the 
                Japan
               current, it is not very cold there. Hence there will be no suffering.11
            
          
        
        One of the carpenters, Stapleton Densford, lived until 1971. The writer had the privilege of
                    interviewing him in late 1968 when the alert and talkative Densford was ninety-nine years old.
                    According to Densford, the party left Jeffer-sonville by train and went to 
            San Francisco
          . There they boarded a ship which stopped at 
            Portland, Oregon

          , for lumber
                    and food. Densford said the camp was located at the town of Dutch Harbor, on the northeast side of
                    Unalaska Island.12
        
        
          
            11
            
              Jeffersonville
            
            News, March 1, 1898, reprinted in Reuben Dailey, ed., "Olden Times
                        Revue," 
              Jeffersonville
            
            Evening News, March 1, 1948.
          
            12 Author's interview with Stapleton Densford, August,
                    1968.
        
        
        One of the few sources of diversion available to the men was sourdough whiskey. Densford remembered
                    that it had cost three dollars a half pint and that they had to "walk four miles across a
                    mountain to get it." The men worked outside as they did in 
            Jeffersonville

           and on many a morning had to sweep piles of snow from the four long hulls they were
                    putting together before starting work. Densford, who was a planker and also a glazier, was
                    responsible for installing all the glass on the four boats. He trained an eskimo as a helper, and
                    the man became "mighty good at his job." While on Unalaska, Densford caught
                    diptheria and the doctor on the expedition wanted to send him home, but the hardy carpenter
                    preferred to stay on.13
        
        Another part of the expedition left toward the end of March, 1898. This party of engineers was
                    doubtless needed after the basic work on the hulls had been completed. At the end of March the New 
            Albany
          
          Daily Ledger reported: 
            Fourteen river engineers and skilled mechanics of this city, under the leadership of Mr.
                            Adolph Schaaf, foreman of the C. Hegewald Co. leave on Thursday for Unalaska Alaska, to set
                            up the machinery of the … four steamboats recently built at Howard's
                            shipyard at 
                Jeffersonville
               [this must be partly in error] but the machinery for which was built in this
                            city by the C. Hegewald Co., M. Zier & Co,'s foundry and machine shops, and
                            the New 
                Albany
               Manufacturing Co. The boats are intended for Yukon River trade, and will run to
                            the gold fields on and near that great river. Several of the engineers go with the expection
                            of remaining for some time as engineers on the new steamboats.
            Those engineers who remain are to receive large wages and be given contracts covering from
                            two to three years, if they so desire.
            The following are the names of all but four of those who will leave tommorrow, and whose
                            wages will average $200 per montth with board and lodging.
            Adolph Schaf [sic]—Superintendent
            Will Raynor—Machinist and Engineer
            Thomas Knowles—Engineer
            George Curry—Engineer
            Robert Baldwin—Captain
            Charles Milligas—Engineer
            Rudolph Lane—Boiler Maker
            Martin Herter—Sheet Iron Worker
            Fred Rapp—Pipe Fitter
            Henry Bettman—Machinist14
            
          
        
        
          
            13
            Ibid.
          
          
            14 New 
              Albany
            
            Daily Ledger, March 23, 1898.
        
        
        
          MEMBERS OF THE ALASKAN EXPEDITION
        
        
        Schaaf's party had arrived on Unalaska by April 24, when George Curry, one of the engineers,
                    wrote home that the temperature at the camp was zero degrees, "yet they considered this
                    good weather, and all were at work in the open air." The task of setting up the four boats
                    was progressing rapidly, and Curry judged they would probably be ready by June 15 to begin their
                    runs "up and down the Yukon and into the Klondike rivers, a distance
                    of over 1,800 miles." The vessels were made of pine, he said, so that they would be as
                    light as possible, drawing only five feet of water when fully loaded, and Curry put them in the same
                    class with the "Tell City," a packet which operated between 
            Louisville
           and Henderson, 
            Kentucky

          . Curry reported that the gold diggings were reputed to be very rich, and he announced
                    his plans to go up the Yukon himself to investigate. If he found "gold digging pays better
                    than steamboating" he would "remain in the mines and try his hand."
                    Whiskey, he added parenthetically, was a dollar a drink on Unalaska.15
        
        The men of the Howard expedition were on their way home by about the beginning of August, 1898,10 and after almost six months in frontier Alaska they must have made payday in 
            San Francisco

           quite an event. Stape Densford received the wage of $60.00 per week in paper
                    money for carpentry and an additional twenty-four twenty dollar gold pieces for his work as a
                        glazier.17 A poem that may have been read by its author, Ben Clark of 
            Cincinnati

          , to the members of the expedition at a boisterous final celebration on the eve of its
                    return completes the picture of life in the camp they left behind. "Farewell to
                    Huntsville" is the title: 
            Farewell to Captins Bay
            And Unalaska's Shore. Farewell to Baren Sea
            Where the snow capped mountains tower
            Good bye to sea side toys
            To Star fish Clams and mussels
            Good bye to all the noisy boys
            That had so many tussels/.
            
              
                15
                Ibid., May 20, 1898.
              
                16
                
                  Jeffersonville
                
                News, August 17, 1898, reprinted in Reuben Dailey, ed.,
                                "Olden Times Revue," 
                  Jeffersonville
                
                Evening News, August 17, 1948.
              
                17 Author's interview with Stapleton Densford, August,
                                1968.
            
            
            
              THE "TELL CITY," THE TYPE OF BOAT BUILT FOR THE YUKON
            
            
            Farewell to the Glass hall bill of fare
            The Rusty Shack good bye
            The Cod fish stews so rich and rare
            And read hot Gamble eye
            Good bye to old Sour Dough
            And all the boys that drank it
            We'll never meete again I know
            For that, the Lord be thanked.
            Farewell to the Keno Lay out
            With Otto Pulling pegs
            And Haynes a Choking off the Goose
            That lays the Golden Egg
            Farewell to the game of Poker
            Over in the other Shack
            When Bartlow plays the Joker
            And stole out half the pack
            Farewell to old Bob Allen
            Will never here him more
            When primed with half a gallen
            Sing the Key Hole in the door
            Farewell to Harry Loyd
            And all the boys thats gone before
            Perhaps we'll meet in sansom street
            Or on other shores
            Good bye to Sourbeck Jonny
            And dear old Penut Jack
            And all the dandy roosters
            That lived in the other shack
            Good bye to Captin Thomas
            His Boat lies on the Shore
            At home he's playing Solitary
            Behind the kitchen door
            Good by to Gratzirs Eagles
            They have gone whare they are free
            But Billy Lauders game old bird
            Still lingers by the sea
            One thing my friends I hate to do
            Is Coming to the frount
            To Say farewell to all of you
            And our Good Friend Captin Hunt.1
            
          
        
        
          
            18 Ben Clark, "Farewell to Huntsville" (Howard Steamboat
                        Museum, 
              Jeffersonville
            ).
        
        

        The existing financial data on the Alaskan expedition must be only partial. In the Howard
                    correspondence for 1898-1899, there exists only one bill to the Alaska Commercial Company for work
                    which included drafting "plans and specifications, furnishing [a] model [.] frame parts,
                    stem & transoms [,] outriggers … rudders, Hogchains, cabin doors and sash
                    … for four (4) steamers[.]" The company was also charged for two carloads of oak
                    lumber in the rough to make a total due of $35,470.49.19 Fishbaugh
                    lists the cost of the boats as $25,000 for each of the three larger ones and
                    $12,000 for the towboat.20 The Howard ledgers bear only one entry
                    relating to the Alaska Commercial Company, and that was for the year 1901 in which $4,650
                    was marked paid.21
        
        The uniqueness of the Alaskan venture in the history of the Howard Shipyards can hardly be
                    exaggerated; yet it is not entirely inconsistent with the record of the company. The Howards had
                    always built boats whose home ports were to be far from 
            Jeffersonville
          . These ports included Wheeling, West 
            Virginia
          ; 
            Sioux City, Iowa; St. Paul, Minnesota
          ; Cairo, 
            Illinois
          ; Vicksburg, 
            Mississippi; Nashville, Tennessee;
                            Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Columbus, Georgia
          ; Key West, 
            Florida
          ; and Galveston, 
            Texas
          , as well as the major ports of 
            Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, St. Louis
          , and 
            New Orleans
          .22
        

        Other ships for foreign countries were both considered and built. In 1872 the Grand Duke Alexis
                    talked with James Howard about building boats for the Russian rivers.23 As far as is known, this project never came to anything. Tow boats were built
                    for use in 
            Honduras
           and Mexico,24 however; and letters were received by the Howards in
                    1897 and 1899 from 
            Guatemala
           discussing repair of Howard built boats.25
        
        
          
            19 Alaska Commercial Co. to E. J. Howard, March 14, 1898, Howard Company
                        Manuscripts.
          
            20 Fishbaugh, From Paddle Wheels to Propellers, 208.
                        Three of the vessels, probably the large passenger sternwheelers, were named
                        "Sarah," "Hannah," and "Susie" after the
                        wives of the three principal owners of the Alaska Commercial Company. R. N. De Armond, editor of
                        the Alaska Journal, to Richard B. Wathen, May 4, 1974.
          
            21 Howard Ship Yards and Dock Company Ledger, December 14, 1893-July 20,
                        1908, p. 513, Howard Company Manuscripts.
          
            22 Fishbaugh, From Paddle Wheels to Propellers, 193-229.
          
            23 Stephen G. Savage, "James Howard of 
              Jeffersonville
            , Master Builder of Steamboats" (M.A. thesis, Department of History,
                        Indiana University, 1952), 97, citing the 
              Louisville
            
            Courier-Journal, February 2, 1872.
          
            24'4 Fishbaugh, From Paddle
                            Wheels to Propellers, 132.
          
            25 Compania del Ferro-Carril Vera 
              Paz
             y Agencias del Norte, Limitada, to E. J. Howard, December 7, 1897; June 15, July 1,
                        1899, Howard Company Manuscripts.
        
        
        The Alaskan venture, however, remains completely unique in the illustrious history of the Howard
                    firm. One can imagine the complexity of shipping materials from 
            Jeffersonville
           to 
            San Francisco
           and on to the Aleutians and of transporting a large party of men to set up a temporary
                    shipyard on the raw and rugged shore of Unalaska. It must have taken a great deal of enterprise on
                    the part of the Howards, whose business had been large and diverse but had concentrated mostly on
                    ships for the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, to take on a
                    contract for sternwheelers destined for the icy Yukon. Those boats must also have crossed five
                    hundred miles of the Bering Sea to reach the mouth of the Yukon from Unalaska. It was an adventure,
                    indeed, for the company and for the scores of Ohio Valley men who took
                part.
      
      
      
        William Hendricks' Political Circulars to his Constituents: Congressional Period,
                    1816-1822
        Frederick D. Hill*
        
        William Hendricks, though unknown to most modern Hoosiers, played a prominent role in the later years
                    of Indiana territorial history and the early decades of statehood. His career in public office
                    spanned the period from 1813, when he became clerk of the territorial House of Representatives, to
                    1837, when congressional adjournment marked the end of his tenure as 
            United States
           senator.
        Hendricks' service in Congress—in the House from 1816 to 1822 and in the Senate
                    from 1825 to 1837—occurred at a time when it was difficult for western congressmen to
                    keep in touch with their constituents. Because travel by horseback, riverboat, or carriage was slow,
                    they could not visit their home districts during a session of Congress. With sessions lasting from
                    three to six months, they could not be in their districts more than six to nine months each year.
                    Long distance communication also was difficult because without the telephone, the telegraph, or
                    electronic media, messages could be transmitted no faster than a person could travel. Hendricks and
                    other representatives engaged in voluminous correspondence, but few of the people they represented
                    could have been reached by individual letters. One effective and widely used device for keeping
                    constituents informed was the political circular.

        During the eighteen years that Hendricks represented the people of Indiana in Congress, he wrote
                    political circulars to his constituents annually. He usually wrote them about the time Congress
                    adjourned, and they were widely distributed 
            
              * Frederick D. Hill is Professor of History at Indiana
                            Central College, 
                Indianapolis
              .
          
           in newspaper columns, as broadsides, and through personal
                    correspondence. Most of them reported the status of legislation with which his constituents were
                    vitally concerned and disclosed his views on matters of public interest. If his term was soon to
                    expire, the circular, reviewing past accomplishments, might resemble a campaign document.

        As a record of one western congressman's thoughts and actions, Hendricks' circular
                    letters are an important historical resource, and eight of them were published by the Indiana
                    Historical Commission a half century ago.1 Recently a complete collection has
                    been assembled, and all eighteen are being published in a three part series in this and subsequent
                    issues of this magazine.
        William Hendricks was born in 
            Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania
          , near 
            Pittsburgh
           on November 12, 1782, and graduated from Jefferson College at Canonsburg, 
            Pennsylvania
          , in 1810. He then migrated to 
            Cincinnati, Ohio
          , where he
                    taught school, studied law, and was admitted to the bar.2 The thirty year old
                    Hendricks, who probably came to 
            Madison

          , Indiana Territory, in the summer or fall of 1812, later described himself at the time
                    of his arrival as an "adventurer," "without office either in possession
                    or expectancy," and "with no prospects other than those of a private
                        citizen."3 He was a stranger in search of opportunities; and for a
                    man with his talents, they were abundant.
        
          
            1 Logan Esarey, ed., Messages and Papers of Jonathan
                            Jennings, Ratliff Boon, William Hendricks (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XII; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1924).
          
            2 The sources disagree regarding the year of Hendricks' birth,
                        but a while before his death on May 16, 1850, he gave his age as sixty-seven. Editorial, 
              Madison
            
            Daily Banner, May 18, 1850; John M. Gresham and Co., comps., Biographical and Historical Souvenir for the Counties of Clark, Crawford, Harrison, Floyd,
                            Jefferson, Jennings, Scott and 
                Washington
              , Indiana (
              Chicago
            , 1889), pt. I, 206; A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-made
                            Men of the State of Indiana (
              Cincinnati
            , 1880), dist. 4, p. 32; William W. Woollen, Biographical and
                            Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
              Indianapolis
            , 1883), 51.
          
            3 On November 1, 1813, Hendricks was chosen to succeed William McFarland,
                        who had resigned as 
              Jefferson County

            's representative in the territorial House. In order to qualify as a voter
                        then, one must have lived in Indiana Territory a year before the election. The residence
                        requirement for officeholders would not have been less. William W. Woollen, Daniel W. Howe, and
                        Jacob P. Dunn, eds… Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, 1800-1816
                            (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. Ill, No. 3; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1900), 202; Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy Riker, eds., The Laws of
                            Indiana Territory, 1809-1816 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XX; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1934), 226; see below p. 320.
        
        

        From February 1, 1813, when he was unanimously chosen clerk of the territorial House of
                        Representatives,4 until statehood in 1816, Hendricks was not without public
                    office. He served as representative from 
            Jefferson County
           and speaker of the House/ territorial printer," prosecuting attorney for
                    Jefferson and 
            Switzerland
           counties,7
          
            United States
           attorney for Indiana,8 and secretary of Indiana's
                    constitutional convention.9 Sometimes he held two or more of these positions
                    concurrently, a common practice among territorial officeholders. During the same period he also
                    practiced law, briefly held a 
            United States
           mail contract,10 and helped found and for almost a year coedited
                    the 
            Madison
          
          Western Eagle, second newspaper in Indiana.11
        
        With the coming of statehood Hendricks launched a twenty-one year career of faithful service to his
                    adopted state as congressman, governor, and 
            United States
           senator. In 1816 he defeated Allen D. Thorn, 
            United States
           collector of revenue at 
            Jeffersonville
          , and George R. C. Sullivan, a 
            Vincennes

           lawyer, to win Indiana's lone House seat in the second session of the
                    Fourteenth Congress (1816-1817).12 Despite strong opposition at 
            Vincennes

           and Corydon, he was reelected in 1817, defeating Thomas Posey, former governor of
                    Indiana Territory, in the contest for a full term in the Fifteenth Congress (1817-1819).13 In 1818 and 1820 Hendricks triumphed over Reuben W. Nelson, editor of the
                    Corydon 
            
              4 Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker, eds., Journals of
                                the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XXXII; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1950), 489.
            
              5
              Ibid., 595, 596, 754, 755.
            
              6
              eibid., 611, 697-98.
            
              7 Ewbank and Riker, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            847, 857.
            
              8
              Ibid., 820.
            
              9
              Journal of the Convention of Indiana Territory (
                Louisville
              , 1816), 4, as reprinted in Indiana Magazine of History, LXI
                            (June 1965), [87-155].
            
              10 Postmaster General [Return Jonathan Meigs] to John Francis Dufour,
                            May 31, [1814], in Clarence E. Carter, ed., The Territory of Indiana, 1810-1816
                                (The Territorial Papers of the 
                  United States
                
              , Vol. VIII; 
                Washington
              , 1939), 305.
            
              11 Donald F. Carmony, "The Pioneer Press in
                            Indiana," Indiana History Bulletin, XXXI (October, 1954), 203;
                            editorial signed by Hendricks, 
                Madison
              
              Western Eagle, April 8, 1814.
            
              12 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana.
                                Election Returns, 1816-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XL; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1960), 71.
            
              13
              Ibid., 71-72.
          
          
          Indiana Herald. In the former election his margin of victory was almost nine to
                    one; in the latter it was more than ten to one as eight counties voted unanimously for him, and he
                    carried every one of the thirty-three counties except 
            Knox
          .14
        
        Congressman Hendricks' popularity continued to increase, and in 1822 he was elected governor
                    of Indiana without opposition. In January 1825, and again in December 1830, the Indiana General
                    Assembly elected him 
            United States
           senator.15
        

        In 1836 Hendricks was defeated in his bid for an unprecedented third six year term as senator from
                    Indiana, but he did not retire from politics. He would have welcomed election to the Senate in 1838
                    or 1843; and he actively sought appointment as federal district judge for Indiana in 1842 and
                    election as president of the Second State Bank of Indiana in 1843.16
        
        In 1845 the 
            Madison
          
          Courier editorially urged the newly elected President, James K. Polk, to make
                    Hendricks commissioner of the General Land Office; and in 1847 Hendricks appealed to Secretary of
                    State James Buchanan for appointment to the Mexican War peace commission.17 Such
                    efforts, however, were in vain. Though he practiced law in 
            Madison
           until his death in 1850, his career in public office had ended when Congress adjourned
                    in the spring of 1837.

        Hendricks' entry into politics had coincided with the demise of the Federalist party. His
                    early years in high office, therefore, were during a period of "non-party"
                    politics at both state and national levels. Even when the "era of good feeling"
                    ended in the 1820s, he sought to avoid identification with either of the emerging national parties.
                    He believed 
            
              14
              Ibid., 72-74. The 1818 returns for 
                Daviess
               and Sullivan counties are missing, but both were decidedly pro-Hendricks in
                            1820. The 1820 returns are complete, but those from 
                Knox, Monroe
              , Scott, and 
                Washington
               counties are from the Corydon Indiana Gazette, August 31 and
                            September 17, and therefore unofficial.
            
              15 Hendricks to John W. Taylor, October 10, 1822, John W. Taylor
                            Papers (
                New York
               Historical Society, 
                New York
               City); Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns, 138,
                            127, 128.
            
              16
              Ibid., 131; Abel C. Pepper to John 
                Tipton
              , December 3, 1838, John Hendricks to [Allen 
                Hamilton
              ], September 29, 1842, Allen 
                Hamilton
               (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); Hendricks to John 
                Tipton
              , Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); Hendricks to Daniel Webster,
                            April 7, 1842, Daniel Webster Papers (
                New Hampshire
               Historical Society, Concord); Hendricks to 
                Hamilton
              , November 10, 1843, 
                Hamilton
               Papers.
            
              17 Editorial 
                Madison
              
              Courier, January 11, 1845; Hendricks to James Buchanan, April 22, 1847,
                            James Buchanan Papers (Historical Society of 
                Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
              ).
          
           that the President, regardless of party, had the right and
                    deserved the privilege of naming his subordinates; and as a legislator he supported presidential
                    nominations even when he lacked confidence in the nominees.18 Though usually
                    taking a firm stand on questions of public policy, he seems to have considered his preferences for
                    political officers a private matter. Hendricks declined to intervene in state and local elections or
                    to exert influence on the selection of the other 
            United States
           senator from Indiana.19 One may infer that he supported Henry 
            Clay
           for the presidency in 1824 and 1832 and John 
            Quincy
           Adams in 1828, but this is uncertain. Not until 1836, when he campaigned for the
                    Democratic presidential candidate, Martin 
            Van

           Buren and his runningmate, Richard M. Johnson, did he openly identify with a political
                        party.20 At the same time, however, he sought reelection to the Senate as a
                    nonpartisan candidate. In 1840 he was a 
            Van

           Buren elector; and in 1844 he was a diligent worker in the successful campaign of
                    Democrat James K. Polk.21
        

        Few politicians have surpassed Congressman Hendricks in careful attention to the needs and desires of
                    those who elected them. The Indiana census of 1815 had reported 63,897 people, almost all of whom
                    lived in the southernmost counties. The 1820 census revealed a population of 147,178, eighty-four
                    percent of whom were still concentrated in the southern third of the state.22
                    For six years Hendricks faithfully carried the petitions of these people to the appropriate federal
                    agencies and obtained answers to their questions whenever possible. He was present on the opening
                    day of each congressional 
            
              18 Hendricks to Arion and Lodge, publishers, June 15, 1830, 
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, June 17, 1830; editorial, 
                Lawrenceburg
              
              Indiana Palladium, January 8, 1831.
            
              19 Hendricks to Noah Noble, July 22, 25, 1828, Noah Noble Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); Hendricks to John 
                Tipton
              , October 27, 1831, 
                Tipton
               Papers.
            
              20 Hendricks to Henry 
                Clay
              , December 22, 1823, William Hendricks Papers (E. M. Violette Museum, Northeast 
                Missouri
               State College, Kirksville); Hendricks to Dennis Pennington, September 26, 1828,
                            in 
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, October 15, 1828; open letter to Hendricks signed
                            "An Indianian," 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 14, 1832; 
                Madison
              
              Republican Banner, October 19, 1836.
            
              21 Communication to [
                Terre Haute
              ] 
                
                  Wabash
                 Courier signed "A 
                Wabash
               Citizen," quoted in 
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Democrat, November 30, 1836; Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns, 36; 
                Madison
              
              Courier, June 15, 1844.
            
              22 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                New York
              , 1954), I, 164, 170.
          
           session, and he responded to more than eighty percent of the
                    roll call votes. His committee assignments reflect his western orientation as he was continuously a
                    member of the Standing Committee on Public Lands and also served on various select committees such
                    as those considering roads and canals, 
            Illinois
           statehood, 
            Missouri
           statehood, and authorization of a congressional delegate for 
            Michigan
           Territory."5 In legislative matters he tried to reflect
                    the will of his constituents without violating his judgment. In committees and on the House floor he
                    fought for policies that would be advantageous to his constituents, but he was not doctrinaire.
                    Because he practiced politics as the art of doing what was possible and was willing to compromise,
                    he doubtless voted for many bills with which he was not wholly satisfied.
        In the wide variety of national issues discussed in his annual circulars, Hendricks treated certain
                    questions more thoroughly than others. In particular Hendricks reported often on the progress of
                    claims filed against the national government by Indiana militiamen for payment of their service
                    during the War of 1812, the admission of 
            Missouri
           to the Union, and recognition of revolutionary governments in South America. He also
                    frequently mentioned the 
            United States
          ' negotiations with 
            Spain
           over territorial boundaries, and the modification of the public land policy.
        Hendricks' first circular is unique. Written after his reelection in August 1817, it was
                    devoted to explaining and defending his motives and actions as congressman and to discrediting those
                    who had sought his defeat. In Indiana, where most men thought of themselves as Jeffersonian
                    Republicans, political alignments were conditioned by personal affinities and animosities and by a
                    sectionalism that had carried over from the territorial period and tended to pit the more populous
                    eastern counties against the western counties. The dominant eastern faction was led by Governor
                    Jonathan Jennings of 
            Charlestown
          , Senator James Noble of 
            Brookville
          , and Congressman William Hendricks of 
            Madison
          , while the opposition tended to rally around Senator Waller 
            
              23 This statistic was computed from roll call votes recorded in the
                                Annals of Congress, 14 Cong-., 2 Sess.-17 Cong., 1 Sess. (December 2,
                            1816-May 8, 1822). For a complete list and documentation of Hendricks' committee
                            assignments see Frederick D. Hill, "William Hendricks: Indiana Politician and
                            Western Advocate, 1812-1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                            University, 1972), 21-22.
          
           Taylor of 
            Jeffersonville

          . To judge from the results of successive elections, Jennings, Noble, and Hendricks all
                    enjoyed the confidence of a majority of the voters for more than a decade after statehood.
                    Nevertheless, they were repeatedly attacked, especially by editors and readers of the Corydon Indiana Herald and the 
            Vincennes
          
          Western Sun. Friendly to them were the 
            Madison
          
          Indiana Republican and the Corydon Indiana Gazette.
        

        Though only Hendricks' term had expired, gossip, innuendo, and slander were leveled at all
                    three men during the congressional campaign of 1817.24 Apparently Hendricks did
                    not respond to the charges during the campaign but waited until after his reelection when he could
                    address his supporters with confidence and approach his detractors with condescension. Perhaps the
                    most effective defense in the entire circular was Hendricks' concluding admission that he
                    had "no 'vested right to represent the people of Indiana' other than what
                    they gave me [on election day]."25
        
        The militiamen's payment controversy concerned members of sixteen companies of Indiana
                    militia called to active duty by Acting Governor John Gibson early in 1813. News of the Indian
                    victory at the River Raisin near 
            Detroit
           had just reached 
            Vincennes

          , and these companies were ordered to occupy a line of blockhouses across the
                        territory.28 Later, at the insistence of Territorial Delegate Jonathan
                    Jennings, the War Department agreed that the militia should be paid by the national government for
                    their services and compensated for the loss of horses and other personal property. Difficulty in
                    substantiating claims, lack of adequate funds at the disposal of the secretary of war, and the
                    failure of Congress to make an appropriation for this purpose, however, delayed payment. Soon after
                    arriving in 
            Washington

           in 1816, Hendricks took up the militiamen's cause. In Indiana he was
                    criticized for intervening and delaying payment and at the same time was accused of speculating in
                    militia claims and 
            
              24 Communications signed "Justice and Truth," 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, February 15, March 1, 1817. No file of the Corydon Indiana Herald is known to exist, but attacks on Hendricks are reflected
                            in his 1817 circular; Census for 1820 (
                Washington
              , 1821), 39.
            
              25 See below, p. 321.
            
              26 John D. Barnhart and Dorothy Riker, Indiana to 1816:
                                The Colonial Period (The History of Indiana, Vol. I; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1971), 416-17.
          
           seeking to hasten their payment.27 In
                    answer to these charges Hendricks declared that he would "not rest till every man
                    … who have [sic] endured fatigue, and been exposed to danger, to rescue
                    and defend our country from the tomahawk and scalping knife, be paid the uttermost
                        farthing."28
        
        In 1818 the 
            Missouri
           territorial legislature petitioned Congress for admission to the Union and precipitated
                    a three year controversy. 
            Missouri
          's admission promised to be routine until the House, where representatives from
                    free states were predominant, voted an amendment to the 
            Missouri
           Enabling Act, which provided for the gradual extinction of slavery there. When the
                    Senate, where the slave states and free states were equally represented, refused to accept the
                    amendment, Congress became deadlocked on the 
            Missouri
           issue and remained so for two years. In 1820 the House and Senate agreed to a
                    compromise that provided for the admission of 
            Missouri
           as a slave state and 
            Maine
           as a free state to preserve the balance between the slaveholding and free interests in
                    the Senate, and which prohibited slavery in the remainder of the 
            Louisiana
           Purchase north of latitude 36°30'. 
            Missouri
           responded by submitting to Congress a constitution that not only protected slavery but
                    imposed certain disabilities on free Negroes. After additional debate on the anti-Negro provisions
                    of the constitution, 
            Missouri
           finally entered the Union in August 1821.2"
        Hendricks delivered a major speech during the 
            Missouri

           debate, and in it he ranged widely over the moral, constitutional, and practical
                    implications as well as the historical precedents involved.30 In consistently
                    opposing the admission of another slave state, Hendricks was true to his convictions and reflected
                    the will of his constituents.31 He reported 
            Missouri

          's status in each annual letter from 1818 to 1822. After the Enabling Act had
                    passed in 1820, he referred to the "warm and animated" discussion and the
                    "bitterness and 
            
              27 Communications signed "Justice and Truth," 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, February 15, March 1, 29, April 12, 1817.
            
              28 See below, p. 317.
            
              29 See Glover Moore, The 
                  Missouri
                 Controversy, 1819-1821 (
                Lexington
              , 1953) for a thorough treatment of the 
                Missouri
               conflict.
            
              30
              Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 1 Sess., 1344-55 (February 15, 1820).
            
              31 Editorials, 
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, March 30, May 25, 1820; Indiana, House
                                Journal (1819-1820), 91-92.
          
           excitement" that had accompanied the month long
                    debate. The next year he complained that "the consumption of time in useless debate of the 
            Missouri

           question, promised little practical good to the nation, from the present
                        session."32
        
        As 
            Spain
           declined, she experienced increasing difficulty in controlling her American colonies.
                    When revolutions broke out from Mexico to the Argentine during the first quarter of the nineteenth
                    century, Americans disagreed regarding their proper stance. Some wished the 
            United States
           to remain aloof, withholding even diplomatic recognition; others wanted not only
                    recognition of the infant regimes but also participation in their struggles for freedom. While
                    Hendricks was in the House of Representatives, President James 
            Monroe
           pursued a cautious policy because he believed the 
            United States
           to have only meager interests in Latin America and because he did not want to
                    antagonize European nations in general or 
            Spain
           in particular. With the latter Secretary of State John 
            Quincy
           Adams was negotiating for the transfer of 
            Florida
           to the 
            United States
           and for a fixed boundary between 
            Louisiana
           Territory and Mexico. But the House, not content to leave recognition to the initiative
                    and discretion of the President, repeatedly debated the question. Hendricks consistently voted with
                    the House majority encouraging 
            Monroe

           to-recognize the new governments and appropriating funds to support one or more
                    missions if and when the President decided to establish diplomatic relations with them.33 "It would be desirable," he said, "that the
                    government of the 
            United States

           whose political tenets, the rising republics of the south are endeavoring to adopt,
                    should be the first to acknowledge their independence."34
        
        Not until 
            Monroe
          's presidency was a serious effort made to define the boundary between the 
            Louisiana
           Purchase and Mexico. Geographical knowledge of the North American interior had been so
                    incomplete that the 
            Louisiana

           Purchase Treaty of 1803 was necessarily vague. Secretary of State Adams also wanted to
                    establish an American-Mexican boundary 
            
              32 See below pp. 331, 336.
            
              33
              Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 1 Sess., 2229 (May 10, 1820); ibid., 16 Cong., 2 Sess., 1077, 1091-92 (February 9, 1821); ibid., 17 Cong., 1 Sess., 1403-404 (March 28, 1822).
            
              34 See below, p. 334.
          
           from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Ocean to eliminate all
                    Spanish claims to the 
            Columbia
           River Valley. Furthermore it was widely believed that 
            Florida
          , which was a haven for Seminole Indians, white outlaws, and fugitive slaves raiding
                    into 
            Georgia
          , ought to belong to the 
            United States
          . While Adams was negotiating these matters with the Spanish minister, Don Luiz de Onis
                    y Gonzales, the War Department sent General Andrew Jackson to impose order along the 
            Florida
           border. Jackson crossed into 
            Florida

          , occupied two Spanish settlements, replaced their governments with an American military
                    regime, and arrested two British subjects. The latter were tried by a military court, found guilty
                    of inciting the Indians, and executed. Jackson's actions offended many Americans, but they
                    also frightened the Spanish. After appropriate formal protests, Onis settled down to serious
                    negotiation, and agreement was reached on all three matters under discussion.35
        
        Though Adams was criticized for not acquiring 
            Texas
           at that time, and although the agreement was not ratified until two years after it was
                    concluded, the Adams-Onis Treaty was a diplomatic victory for the 
            Monroe
           administration. It transferred 
            Florida
           to the 
            United States
           and fixed a southwestern boundary from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean. The
                    Transcontinental Treaty line followed the present boundary of 
            Texas
           from the mouth of the Sabine River to the 
            Oklahoma

           panhandle and on north to the Arkansas River; up the
                        Arkansas River to its source and then due north to the 42°
                    parallel; and along that parallel to the Pacific Ocean.36 Hendricks kept his
                    constituents informed of Adams' progress, and, when at last the treaty was ratified, he
                    said, "No period of our history since the close of the revolution, is better calculated
                    … to pourtray the destinies of this great republic."37
        

        Before western land could be acquired by a private citizen, it had to be ceded by the Indians to the
                    national government 
            
              35 See Philip C. Brooks, Diplomacy and the Borderlands:
                                The Adams-Onis Treaty of 1819 (Berkeley, 1939); and Charles C. Griffin, The 
                  United States
                 and the Disruption of the Spanish Empire, 1810-1822 (
                New York
              , 1937) for detailed coverage of these negotiations.
            
              36 George Dangerfield, The Awakening of American
                                Nationalism, 1815-1828 (
                New York
              , 1965), 67.
            
              37 See below, p. 343.
          
           and surveyed; then it was sold at auction. By 1820 it was
                    obvious that the four year credit system, as established by the Harrison Land Law of 1800 and
                    amended in 1804, was not working well. Both speculators and settlers found it difficult and
                    sometimes impossible to make their scheduled payments. Some speculators had simply bought too much
                    land. Many settlers had discovered the statutory minimum of 160 acres to be more than they could use
                    or pay for within four years at the minimum price of two dollars per acre, especially after the
                    Panic of 1819. Despite passage of a series of relief laws, starting in 1806, to protect the buyer
                    who did not make his payments, by the end of 1820 the outstanding debt on land purchases totalled
                    some $21,000,000 with more than $2,000,000 owed in Indiana alone.38 Moreover, there already had been extensive forfeiture because relief laws
                    were neither uniform nor comprehensive.

        To halt the increase of landed indebtedness and default, Congress abolished the credit system in
                    1820. The new minimum purchase tract was eighty acres, and the minimum cash price was
                    $1.25 per acre.39 Hendricks opposed the abolition of credit land
                    sales, and the only redeeming feature he saw in this bill was the low price. This, he believed,
                    would make it possible for all classes to purchase land and would make the government "more
                    inclined to indulge those who are at present indebted, and who are unable to pay for their
                        lands."40 The next year Congress, to lighten the burden of
                    purchasers already in arrears and to hasten the liquidation of accumulated indebtedness, passed a
                    comprehensive relief law. The buyer could relinquish part of his land and apply payments already
                    made to what he retained. He could pay his debt at 371/2 percent discount, which in effect reduced
                    his purchase price to the current minimum of $1.25 per acre. Or he could obtain an
                    extension of time. Hendricks worked for the passage 
            
              38
              American State Papers: Public Lands (8 vols., 
                Washington
              , 1832-1861), III, 645.
            
              39
              Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2578-79 (April 24, 1820).
                            See Malcolm Rohrbough, Land Office Business: The Settlement and Administration
                                of American Public Lands, 1789-1837 (
                New York
              , 1971) for full coverage of public land policy.
            
              40 Hendricks to editor, March 10, 1820, 
                Lawrenceburg
              
              Oracle, April 1, 1820; see below, p. 334.
          
           of this law and described it as "liberal, beyond the
                    expectations and hopes of any portion of the Western country."41
        
        Several issues of growing importance received less frequent or less thorough treatment in this block
                    of circulars than did those discussed above. Among these were internal improvements, the
                    extinguishing of Indian land titles, the Second Bank of the 
            United States
          , military preparedness and pensions, the tariff, and the state of the national economy.
        Internal improvements were essential if westerners were to import needed commodities and export
                    produce with reasonable ease. Of special concern to Hoosiers were the westward extension of the
                    Cumberland Road, opened from Cumberland, 
            Maryland
          , to the Ohio River at Wheeling in 1818; a canal to bypass the
                    Falls of the 
            Ohio
           at 
            Jeffersonville

           and facilitate the movement of goods on the Ohio River; and the
                    construction of roads within the state. In the Indiana Enabling Act Congress had shown its interest
                    in aiding Indiana transportation and development. In this act, the federal government had agreed to
                    spend two percent of the net proceeds from land sales in the state to build roads to the state, and
                    to transfer to the General Assembly three percent of the net proceeds to build roads and canals in
                    the state. Among other provisions of the act, the state relinquished for five years from the date of
                    sale the right to tax any land passing into private hands after December 1, 1816, and the right to
                    tax public lands.42
        
        When Indiana entered the Union in 1816, the Indians still possessed most of the northern two thirds
                    of the state, and immediate prospects for the state's growth and development were not good.
                    Hendricks, therefore, worked hard for early extinction of Indian land titles, rapid survey of newly
                    acquired lands, and the establishment of more land offices. The most spectacular development was the
                    New Purchase negotiated at St. Marys, 
            Ohio
          , in 1818. It was the largest single purchase ever made in Indiana and embraced most of
                    the central part of the state from 
            Ohio
           on the east to 
            Illinois
          
          
            
              41
              Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 1795-98 (March 2, 1821);
                            see below, p. 338.
            
              42
              Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 1841-44 (April 19,
                        1816).
          
           on the west and from 
            Jackson County
           on the south to just beyond the Wabash River on the north.43
        
        In 1811 Congress had refused to recharter the First 
            United States
           Bank. The experience of struggling through the War of 1812 without the benefit of
                    central banking, however, had caused many national leaders to change their minds about the wisdom
                    and constitutionality of a national bank. So in the spring of 1816 Congress chartered the Second
                    Bank of the 
            United States

          , which was to act as the government's fiscal agent and establish and maintain
                    a stable and uniform currency. Less than a year after the bank opened its doors in January, 1817,
                    the House Committee on National Currency investigated its operation.44 Though
                    the House took no action against the bank at that time, Hendricks described the committee's
                    report as "an expose of a series of improprieties on the part of the
                    directors, not perhaps equalled in the history of any other moneyed institution."45
        

        Following the War of 1812, the army was reduced to less than 10,000 men stationed on the seaboard,
                    along the northern frontier, and in the West. After the Panic of 1819, Hendricks and others favored
                    further reduction of the armed forces.46 Congress spent more time, however, on
                    the problem of benefits for needy veterans and for widows and orphans of veterans. A Revolutionary
                    pension law was enacted providing old or indigent veterans of that war a small income for life.
                    Congress also extended for five years the half-pay status of widows and orphans of militiamen killed
                    in the War of 1812, including the Battle of 
            Tippecanoe

          . These statutes were important for the people of Indiana because numerous veterans of
                    the War for Independence had migrated there and because the Indiana militia had often borne the
                    brunt of Indian attacks on the frontier during the War of 1812.47
        
        
          
            43 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815-1840 (2 vols., 
              Indianapolis

            , 1950), I, 111-12. For the nation's dealings with the Indians viewed
                        through the experience of one tribe see Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (
              Norman
            , 1970).
          
            44
            Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 2 Sess., 436 (January 7, 1817).
          
            45 See below, p. 327. For a detailed analysis of the bank's
                        policies and their impact on the country, see Walter B. Smith, The Second Bank of
                            the 
                United States
              
             (
              Cambridge
            , Mass., 1953).
          
            46
            Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 2 Sess., 933, 1283 (January 22, March 2, 1821).
          
            47 See below, p. 322.
        
        
        The War of 1812, isolating the 
            United States

           from the world market, had encouraged the development of industry-When the war ended
                    and trade was resumed, some domestic manufactured products could not successfully compete with
                    imported goods, and the manufacturers turned to the government for aid. In 1816 Congress enacted the
                    first avowedly protective tariff, and twice while Hendricks, who seems to have been a moderate
                    protectionist, was in the House, tariff rates were raised despite the opposition of southern
                    planters and some northern merchants.48
        

        Immediately following the War of 1812, the American economy had over expanded to fill the demand
                    created for goods as a result of the disruption of Europe's economy by the French
                    Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars that had been going on intermittently since 1789. But within a
                    few years after hostilities ended in Europe, the productive system there rebounded, and the demand
                    for American goods declined sharply. Land values plummetted, and the price of staples fell;
                    depression was evident in every section of the country.49 In Indiana public land
                    sales declined and immigration dwindled. With local surpluses of agricultural commodities and
                    declining prices, many settlers could not meet their financial obligations.'50 The depression that followed the Panic of 1819 lingered for years, and Hendricks called
                    for the strictest economy in the management of both public and private resources.51
        
        Perusal of Hendricks' annual circulars reveals his diligence in reporting to his
                    constituents and the breadth of his concerns and theirs. His position on each issue is usually
                    clear, and he did not hesitate to take credit for his accomplishments on behalf of the people of
                    Indiana.
        
          
            48
            Annals of Congress, 16 Cong., 1 Sess., 1902-903 (April 20, 1820); see below,
                        p. 335.
          
            49 See Murray N. Rothbard, The Panic of 1819 (
              New York
            , 1962) for a thorough analysis of that depression.
          
            50 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 170-71.
          
            51 See below, p. 342.
        
        
        
          "THE OLD HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES" (1822) BY SAMUEL B. MORSE. CAMEO IS WILLIAM
                        HENDRICKS, 7TH FROM LEFT IN THE PAINTING
          Courtesy Indiana Division. Indiana State Library, 
              Indianapolis
            
          
        
        
        Hendricks Circulars1
        
        
          Circular Relating to the 14th Congress, 2nd Session (1816-1817)
          2
        
        [
            Madison
          , Indiana September 16, 1817]
        
          F'elloiv'-citizens of Indiana;
        

        Having again been elected your Representative in Congress, by a respectable majority, over a
                    respectable opponent,3& that in the face of, and in opposition to a
                    series of newspaper assaults, & political management I might say unparalleled in the history
                    of our affairs; it may now be expected, that you hear from me, and if nothing of more importance,
                    that at least an effusion of gratitude for the confidence you have reposed, might on the present
                    occasion, be expressed.—Heretofore I have been silent as it respects newspaper
                    address—I had no supereminent qualities, or qualifications of which to
                    "boast," and if I had had such, I should not have boasted. I was
                    conscious that to stoop to blazon my 
            
              1 The editor has attempted to reproduce these circulars as closely as
                            possible to the form in which they were originally published. Vagaries of spelling,
                            capitalization, and paragraphing have been followed exactly as in the original text. In some
                            instances stray marks or imperfections in the original have made it impossible to ascertain
                            whether or not commas or periods are used, and in these cases the editor has made what seems
                            to be the correct punctuation. Letters left out of words have been inserted in brackets
                            wherever not to have done so might have resulted in mistaking one word for another;
                            otherwise incorrect and phonetic spellings have been retained as found. When names first
                            appear in the text, they have been completed in either brackets or footnotes for
                            identification. Where titles or occupations refer to specific individuals, these persons
                            have also been identified in brackets or footnotes where appropriate. Finally, in cases
                            where geographic locations, acts of Congress, or other types of potentially unclear
                            references are made, bracketed information or footnotes have been added to clarify the text.
                            These circulars are taken from photocopies of the originals.
            
              2 This circular is reprinted from the 
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, September 16, 1817 (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                Indianapolis
              ). This session of Congress convened December 2, 1816, and adjourned March 3,
                            1817.
            
              3 Hendricks defeated Thomas Posey by a sixty percent majority. Before
                            coming to Indiana, Posey had served with distinction in the Continental Army, had been
                            lieutenant governor of 
                Kentucky
              , and had completed an unexpired term as 
                United States
               senator from 
                Louisiana
              . He was appointed governor of Indiana Territory in 1813 and held that office
                            until statehood. Defeated in his bid to become the first governor of the state of Indiana in
                            1816, he accepted appointment as Indian agent at Shawneetown, 
                Illinois

              . He held the latter position until his death in 1818. See Lawrence F. Kennedy,
                                Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 177U-1971 (
                Washington
              , 1971), 1559.
          
           own eulogy, capacity and fitness, would argue vanity,
                    incapacity and unfitness, and being known as a candidate, it was presumable the people would enquire
                    and know, in some good degree, my political tenets and qualifications. I did not meddle with, or
                    answer the billingsgate effusions of the [Corydon] "Indiana Herald," its editors
                    or correspondents; because the motives and the object of the one, was too ostensible to be mistaken;
                    and because I conceived the correspondent identified with the editor. It was too visible to be
                    concealed, too plain to be mistaken, that [Reuben W. Nelson,] an editor of the Herald, having
                    already failed in some appointments, and ambitious of preferment, thought it necessary to remove out
                    of his way that which stopped it, and not being able to remove it himself, it was important to brand
                    it with the epithet of public nuisance, and call to his assistance the political energies of the
                    state. It was also as visible and plain, that this self same editor, no doubt viewing himself
                    already on the threshold of Congress, already your representative, usurped your name and authority,
                    and called upon me to answer certain interrogatories which he himself had set forth.

        These interrogatories I did not, at that time think fit to answer, because I did not consider myself
                    called upon by you for such answers—I did not recognize the voice of the people in the
                    brawlings and lampoonings of that paper. In the distracted ravings of the editors of the Herald, I
                    have been charged among other things with procuring the appointment of printer of the laws of the U.
                    S. for [Armstrong Brandon and James Lodge] the editors of the [Corydon Indiana] Gazette, to the
                    total neglect and great prejudice of the editors of the Herald, whose superior talents, claims
                    & privileges ought by all means to have been recognized and attended to.4 To this horrible charge I answer that there was a propriety in having the laws of the U. S.
                    printed at [Corydon,] the seat of government, in one of the papers established there. That Mr.
                    [Senator James] Noble and myself were notified that the editors of the Gazette were applicants
                    & wished the appointment, but no intimation ever reached us, that the editors of the Herald
                    were or would be 
            
              4 Newly passed federal legislation was disseminated through selected
                            newspapers of the land. Public printing contracts were profitable and much coveted by local
                            editors. The other editor of the Corydon Indiana Herald seems to have been
                            a Mr. Cox.
          
           applicants, or would perform the duties if appointed. As your
                    representatives it was our duty to have the laws of the Union published in the state, and to select
                    proper mediums of publication. Ought we to have preferred the Herald, without knowing whether its
                    editors would accept the appointment, to the Gazette whose editors were applicants? every
                    man of common sense will say no. But why did not the editors of the Herald inform Mr. Noble and
                    myself, if they wished to obtain that appointment. Perhaps, indeed those gentlemen thought it
                    stooping beneath their dignity to address a line to either of us. Would not the editors of the
                    Gazette have had the same reasons to complain, if their application had not been
                    preferred? what exclusive right or privilege will common understanding or justice give
                    the Herald over the Gazette? on what could such right or privilege be founded?
                    or how let me ask can the Herald be effected or "ruined" by the appointment of the
                    Gazette? can that be taken away which was never given or enjoyed?

        Another very serious charge as easily understood as it is false, & emphatically stated by the
                    Herald, is, that I endeavored to have the printing of the U.S. laws taken away from Mr. Stout/1 The object of this cannot be mistaken. It was intended to impress the citizens
                    of the West [em counties] with an idea that I had attempted to deprive them of
                    every means of promulgating the laws of the U.S. among them. It was intended to fan the flame of
                    local jealousy already in existence in the West, and to make that feeling heretofore and still
                    prevalent at 
            Vincennes

           coincident with the whole western end of the state. It was intended to marshall the
                    feelings of the East and West against each other, that this same editor [Nelson], whose pretensions
                    had not yet become generally known or repsected [sic], might have to a party, and be taken up generally in the west. If Mr. Noble and
                    myself endeavored to have Mr. Stout removed from that appointment, who else did we
                    nominate? No one. There is in this assertion gross and malignant falsehood. I stated
                    unequivocally, that there was no other newspaper in the west to be selected, and that it was proper
                    and right to have the laws printed in that section of the state. It was my opinion 
            
              5 Elihu Stout had founded the 
                Vincennes
              
              Indiana Gazette, the first newspaper in Indiana, in 1804. Now editor of
                            the 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun and General Advertiser, successor to the Gazette, he had been a 
                United States
               printer for several years.
          
           also, that a greater number of papers in each state would be
                    employed in printing the laws: But when giving an opinion of Mr. Stout as an editor, I did also
                    state, that he had the reputation of an indolent man—that in his publications he had not formerly been very punctual—that his "Sun" had frequently set for more than a week at a time, and that in
                    consequence of this, the publication of the laws in that quarter was frequently retarded.6 But I did not state that Mr. Stout while he received the emoluments of the
                    General Government for publishing their laws, permitted his paper to be made a vehicle of slander
                    and abuse against that government. I did not state that Mr. Stout received and published
                    communications abusive of that government to whose protection he was indebted for the enjoyments of
                    his fireside, & the frontiers of Indiana for their habitations. These traits of Mr. Stout as
                    an editor I might have given, and subsequent publications would have proved my assertions true.

        Another charge of a most singular nature is, that I was "cognizant of and instrumental in
                    bringing the Gazette to Corydon." The editors of the Gazette have already stated enough on
                    this subject, but all will not do. Mr. Brandon I never saw till April last—Mr. James
                    Lodge I have never yet seen, nor had I the remotest knowledge of their establishment [of the Indiana Gazette] till after I left home last November for 
            Washington
          .

        I have been charged with procuring for Mr. Brandon the appointment of Post Master at Corydon. This
                    appointment has rung through the state, and been reiterated in almost every number of the Herald for
                    three months past. The recommendation of Mr. [Richard M.] Heth [the retiring postmaster,] was
                    disregarded. This is the thing so much complained of. On this subject however I might have plead
                    ignorance, for I never before knew that Mr. Heth had a right to nominate his successor. This would
                    be policy and proceeding of a very dignified order indeed. The circumstance of Mr. Heth's
                    letter, without any other recommendation for Mr. [Giliis] M'Bean, casts a shade of
                    suspicion on 
            
              6 Pioneer editors sometimes exhausted their paper supplies, and they
                            sometimes became ill. In either case their papers were legitimately late. Stout's
                            paper was more reliable than many others. See Donald F. Carmony, "The Pioneer Press
                            in Indiana," Indiana History Bulletin, XXXI (October, 1954),
                        191.
          
           the transaction and argues something behind the scene. If every
                    thing was fair & correct—if the people of Corydon knew that Mr. Heth was about to
                    decline, why did not at least some of the citizens sign Mr M'Bean's nomination.
                    The history of that affair at 
            Washington

          , is as follows. Early in the session Mr. Heth forwarded a letter to the Postmaster
                    General [Return Jonathan Meigs], in which he stated his resignation—named Mr
                    M'Bean as his succesor [sic] in office, and proposed transferring the
                    papers as soon as he (M'Bean) should be authorized to receive them.—This letter
                    was by the P. M. General immediately enclosed to me, as the Representative of the people. My opinion
                    was asked respecting the appointment of M'Bean, and a request was added that I should
                    signify my approbation, or nominate some fit person to be appointed. On reading the letter of Mr.
                    Heth, it struck me as a thing very probable, that the citizens of Corydon had not been notified of
                    the resignation of Mr. Heth, or the nomination of Mr. M'Bean, or they would either have
                    joined with Mr. Heth in recommending M'Bean, or nominated another person. Without
                    therefore, having any hostility toward M'Bean, or preference for any particular person, I
                    determined on waiting the arrival of some mails, before I would answer the letter aforesaid;
                    thinking I might receive something from Corydon on the subject, and an expression of the citizens in
                    favor of some applicant for the appointment.—By the arrival of the second mail, I
                    received letters informing me of the resignation of Mr. Heth, and that Mr. Brandon was an
                    applicants—that he was well recommended, and that his recommendation was before the P.
                    Master General. I enquired if this recommendation had arrived, and was answered in the affirmative.
                    This was enough for me. I did not ask to see it. There was no recommendation for any other person
                    save the official one of Mr. Heth. I acquiesced in the nomination of Mr. Brandon, and so would I
                    have done, had the nomination been in favor of Mr. M'Bean, or Mr. any body else. Of Mr.
                    Brandon at that time I had just heard, had never seen him. He had not written to me on that or any
                    other subject, but being acquainted with Col. Johnson,7 had written to him. I
                    had no partiality in his favor. This thing however has answered certain gentry to noise through the
                    state. The 
            
              7 Richard M. Johnson was a congressman from 
                Kentucky
              .
          
           "Herald" says, that "Messrs Noble
                    and Hendricks put in their counter application without consulting Mr. [Senator Waller] Taylor, to
                    whom the interests and feelings of this town and county had been entrusted in this affair."
                    And who entrusted Mr. Taylor with the feelings of both town and county in this affair?
                    Perhaps indeed Mr. Heth, whose recommendation ought to have outweighed all others. I strongly
                    suspect that Mr. Taylor was not entrusted or advised on the occasion, and if he had been, the
                    friends of M'Bean ought not to complain, that Mr. Noble and myself did not consult Mr. T.
                    because he did not consult us. Nor do I believe Mr. Taylor made any effort, to have M'Bean
                    appointed, unrecom-mended as he was, over Mr. Brandon who was well recommended. If such was the
                    conduct of Mr. Taylor, such would not be mine. In fine, I have no doubt, that if through my
                    attention, the editors of the "Herald," had been appointed printers of the laws of
                    the Union,—any other person than an editor of the "Gazette," appointed
                    post master at Corydon, and one of the editors of the Herald appointed District Attorney for the
                    state, that all would have been well—that for attentions like these, I could have
                    commanded the talents, the labors and zeal of these editors, in the same degree they have been
                    employed against me.

        Fellow-citizens, it has been my lot ever since I appeared on the political theatre, to receive the
                    scurrilous abuses of some editors and others, who are in the habit of denouncing every officer and
                    candidate for office, who has not been brought forward by themselves. When a candidate for your
                    suffrages last year, though I had not announced my name or pretensions through the medium of any
                    press, the Western Sun was good enough to notice me as altogether "undeserving" of
                    "notice;" and to employ some pleasant epithets, very usual for that paper, when
                    noticing candidates for office, which they are not disposed to support. Notwithstanding that notice,
                    the Western Sun has since thought proper to employ its columns for months past in noticing
                    me—in pouring on me the most scurrilous and undeserved abuse,8 and on
                    a subject 
            
              8 This is a sample. A reader, calling himself "Justice and
                            Truth," referred to the "usual cunning" of Noble and Hendricks,
                            charged them with "ignorance and sinister design," and predicted that
                            "all such men as Jennings, Noble and Hendricks, who take dastardly means to
                            ingratiate themselves into your confidence, without either public or individual merit, shall
                            be discarded as unworthy servants." See 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun and General Advertiser, February 15, March 1, April 12,
                        1817.
          
           too, which of all others one would suppose would have been the
                    last about which to complain, namely, a correspondence with the Acting Secretary of War [George
                    Graham] on the subject of the claims of the militia. The recognition of the Secretary of War of the
                    claims of the militia of Indiana, was obtained by the repeated solicitations of Mr. [Jonathan]
                    Jennings while [a territorial] delegate in Congress. That business was fixed and determined before I
                    ari'ived at 
            Washington

          . 1 wished no credit for that, nor indeed for any of my public services, other than the
                    credit of having done my duty. In vain will the writer under the specious garb of "Justice
                    and Truth," or any other writer, state, that exertion on their behalf tended to promote
                    delay in the reception of their pay. It need not be told the militiaman or the ranger, that Major
                    Whitlock'' has been most friendly to their claims, and would but for the want of
                    funds long ere now have paid thern.— Major Whitlock himself will not say so. He will say
                    for he has said, that many of the rangers had long ago received more from the government than they
                    justly deserved. This he has said respecting Capt. [Frederick] Sholts' company of rangers,
                    who have lately received a balance of their pay, in consequence of a special order from the
                    Paymaster General. It was pay rolls in due form and properly authenticated, which Major W. looked
                    to, and not to the justice of their claims from having performed services. He was no military
                    chancellor. If the militia and rangers or any of them have received their pay, I shall not regret
                    any exertion on their behalf, notwithstanding the abuse of the Western Sun. That some and a goodly
                    number have been paid I know. That some have not been paid I also know, and it is a subject to which
                    I shall, during the next session of congress devote every attention. While any thing remains in my
                    power on that subject, either as a public man or private citizen, I will not rest till every man,
                    who has performed military service —who have endured fatigue, and been exposed to danger,
                    to rescue and defend our country from the tomahawk and scalping knife, be paid the uttermost
                    farthing; and the Indiana Herald and the Western Sun, lest they should be too much engaged next
                    summer, may begin now on this subject, and write bitterness and cursing, until the first Monday in
                        
            
              9 Major Ambrose Whitlock was a deputy paymaster general, 
                United States
               Army, and was stationed at Fort 
                Knox
               near 
                Vincennes
              .
          
           August next.10 I also expect to write as
                    many letters home to my friends as I did last session. On this subject also the Herald may take time
                    by the forelock. Perhaps these papers think with Bostonian intellect; that the war was cruel,
                    unnecessary and unjust, and that the debts contracted by the administration which declared war,
                    ought not to be paid.11 If so it would evidently be improper to promote the
                    claim of the militiamen or the ranger; but thinking differently, I will act differently.

        Fellow citizens; it is not rational, sentimental objection to my political acts, which has occasioned
                    the opposition I have recently experienced. It is too much[,] say they, that this man who but
                    yesterday came among us, without acquaintances, friends, wealth or patronage, should now represent
                    the state in congress.—It is the man and not measures
                    which have actuated my enemies; for what act of mine have they been able to find fault
                    with?—Where except in some trivial appointments for which my clamorous enemies
                    were applicants, do they attempt to charge me? What duty have I neglected?
                    What done amiss? They have not been able to say. Their specifications point to their own
                    disappointments. Their general allegations are mere lampoonings and abuses. Mark the course and
                    channel of opposition, and the time when it commenced. As early as January last, immediately after
                    the editors of the Herald found they were not appointed printers of the laws of the 
            United States
          , and while I was at 
            Washington

           attending to my duties as your representative, they commenced abusing me, for writing a
                    letter to the acting secretary of War on behalf of the militia and rangers. On the 5th of March a
                    caucus was advertised by these same editors, and on the 15th of the same month this caucus was held,
                    for the special purpose as was well understood of selecting a candidate to oppose me for Congress.
                    And here it may be remarked, that by this time it was known, at Corydon, that Mr. Brandon was
                    appointed Post-master, Mr. M'Bean was disappointed, Mr. Heth was very angry, and some
                    gentlemen wanted to go to Congress—these things were strengthening 
            
              10 August 3, 1818, was the date of the next congressional election in
                            Indiana.
            
              11 In New 
                England

               there had been strong and widespread opposition to the War of 1812. See
                            Marshall Smelser, The Democratic Republic, 1801-1815 (
                New York
              , 1968), 291-99.
          
           the party there.—At this caucus however but few
                    attended, and some of those few were opposed to the policy about to be pursued. Nothing at that time
                    was done but to make arrangements for a future day.—This day was pitched upon. It was the
                    28th day of April, the first day of the court, when the citizens of Harrison [County] were expected
                    generally to attend, and who it was presumed would be favorable to a candidate at that place. It
                    then could have been said that the candidate thus taken up was nominated by a large and respectable
                    meeting. But a series of disasters again took place, a writer over the signature of
                    "Vesuvius" in the Western Sun of the 29th of March, mistaking the movers and the
                    object of these caucuses, belches forth his lava on the measure, and threatens a total discomfiture
                    of all the schemes and plans so fast maturing. The people too, very unexpectedly disapproved of the
                    whole proceeding. The caucus was abandoned, and the man at that time intended to have been taken up,
                    abandoned the idea of becoming a candidate. Disorder appeared in the ranks, a misunderstanding
                    between the Sun and Herald, and this mighty caucus frustrated. The Herald however on the 10th May
                    justifies caucus nominations, as much the "best way" of selecting on the ground of
                    "example" and "reason."—But behold on the 24th of
                    May, one of its editors12 announces himself a candidate for Congress, without
                    following the dictates of the "best" way of "example" or
                    "reason." Mighty newspaper editorial exertions were used from this time to the day
                    of election, in which every thing was resorted to, which afforded the most remote prospect of weight
                    or influence. I was represented as vain and arrogant, wishing "that some popular character
                    should be brought forward to oppose me at the next congressional election, and I would shew them
                    that opposition was useless." This was low groveling policy indeed, but it was not without
                    a parallel.— About the first of August Governor [Thomas] Posey became a candidate. And
                    how was he taken up? Was it by the people, by his own wishes, or by a caucus?
                    By the latter, it may be said without fear of contradiction, a caucus at Vmcennes, at which but very
                    few attended. The Western Sun which on former occasions shewed so much hostility to this kind of
                        
            
              12 Reuben W. Nelson announced his candidacy but withdrew before
                            election day.
          
           nomination was now silent.—Against gov. Posey I have
                    not a word to say. His character both public and private, as far as I know, I admire—I
                    early formed a favorable opinion of him, and that opinion I have not yet changed. Had I been brought
                    into public view for the first time when he became a candidate for congress, I would in all
                    probability have declined a competition, and given way to greater experience and merit. But my
                    situation was a different one. Governor Posey was brought forward by my avowed and inveterate
                    enemies, who have practised everything but fair dealing to injure & destroy me. He suffered
                    himself to be taken up if report be true contrary to his wishes, and certainly contrary to his
                    interests for he had and still has a situation much more lucrative and better suited to his age and
                    infirmities. To have declined would have been disaster to myself & triumph to my
                    enemies—would have been worse than defeat. I now stand elected your representative to
                    Congress for two years. During that time I shall unceasingly and undeviat-ingly employ my industry
                    and all the talents I possess to promote your political interests. My political tenets and
                    principles I presume are congenial with the great mass of my constituents, warmly and devotedly
                    republican. My feelings and habits are so also.—My interests are your
                    interests—I was an adventurer to Indiana.—This name has
                    become familiar to my feelings and good wishes.—This place I view as my home. I came here
                    without office either in possession or expectancy—had no prospects other than those of a
                    private citizen. How long or how short soever my political life may last, I shall ever cherish a
                    grateful remembrance of the virtuous and independent citizens of Indiana. To them I owe, and
                    particularly to the citizens of 
            Jefferson county
           my political existence. From the citizens of 
            Jefferson county
           I received the first notice of political distinction—a seat in the
                    Legislature of the Territory, by them was re-elected, and discharged my duties in that station I
                    believe to their general satisfaction, & with an ordinary degree of credit to myself. I was
                    afterwards appointed District Attorney for the territory, and since the formation of our
                    constitution, have twice been elected your representative in Congress. This fellow citizens is my
                    political history. No part of the scene is shaded with antiquity. It is all of recent occurrence. It
                    happened among you.
        

        The history of my life from my cradle to the present day might be easily written. Most of the
                    materials necessary would be found in the recollection of those who have known me from childhood.
                    This history would not be long. In it there would be no brilliant incident—no disgraceful
                    event. And in answer to the Herald, I might say, that I have not "done" very much "for my country"—have no "distinguished talents" of which to "boast." Have no claim to other virtues, than those of an
                    "honest man."—Have no "vested right to represent the people of
                    Indiana," other than what they gave me on the first Monday of last August.
        
          Yours very respectfully. WILLIAM HENDRICKS. 
            
              Madison
            , September 16, 1817
        
          Circular Relating to the 15 th Congress, 1st Session (1817-1818)
          13
        
        
          
            
              Washington City

            , March 17, 1818. SIR—[I]n the presidents message at the
                    commencement of the session, you will have seen the outline of business which has since that time
                    occupied the attention of Congress.14 More than three months of the session has
                    elapsed, and a great mass of business yet remains to be taken up. Several questions have been
                    agitated this winter which have worn away days and weeks in tedious debate, and which have not been
                    productive of any practical result. Such was the soldiers commutation bill, which ought to have
                    passed into a law; the bankrupt bill &c. &c. This commutation bill offered to the
                    soldier, at his option, one dollar per acre, in lieu of the lands he is entitled to receive. It had
                    for its object his benefit alone. It was negatived by a majority of two votes in the house of
                    Representatives.
        
          
            13 This circular is reprinted from the 
              Vincennes
            
            Western Sun mid General Advertiser, April 25, 1818 (Archives Division, Indiana
                        State Library). This session of Congress convened December 1, 1817, and adjourned April 20,
                        1818.
          
            14 See Fred L. Israel, ed., The State of the Union Messages
                            of the Presidents, 1790-1966 (3 vols., 
              New York
            , 1966), I, 148-56. Hendricks was accused of plagiarizing the President's
                        message in his 1818 circular. See "Civis" in 
              Vincennes
            
            Western Sun and General Advertiser, April 25, 1818, and "Heigh-Ho
                        Circular" in ibid., June 13, 1818.
        
        

        On the list of laws which have passed during the present session, is one repealing the internal
                        duties.15 These duties had become unnecessary, from the competency of other
                    sources of revenue, more natural and less oppressive, to meet the current demands of the government,
                    and furnish a sinking fund, more than sufficient for the redemption of the public debt, at those
                    periods when it shall become due.
        A law has passed making further provision for the superannuated and indigent officers and soldiers of
                    the revolutionary war. It gives, under certain restrictions, to the officers of the revolution 20,
                    and to the soldier 8 dollars per month, during life.
        Among the orders of the day is [a] bill extending, for a further term of five years, the half-pay
                    pensions, allowed by law to the widows and orphans of the militia who died in the service, or of
                    wounds & dissabilities contracted while in the service during the late war. This bill
                    includes the widows and orphans of the rangers and those who fell in the campaign on the 
            Wabash
           in November, 1811.1(i A bill authorising a balance of pay to the
                    company of rangers commanded by capt. [James] Bigger, in March, 1814, and a bill authorizing the
                    payment of our three per cent, road fund, are yet unacted upon by the House of Representatives.17 This continually growing fund, agreeable to an exhibit of the Treasury
                    Department, amounted on the 30th Sept. 1817, to $12,280 84 cents; which, if judiciously
                    managed and appropriated, will be of immense advantage to the state.

        Various post roads will, before the rising of Congress, be established within our state; among which
                    are the following 
            
              15 To help finance the War of 1812, Congress had levied an excise tax
                            on saddle horses, leather goods, tobacco, snuff, paper, whiskey, and numerous other items.
                            After President James 
                Monroe

               assured Congress that revenues from tonnage, import duties, and the sale of
                            public lands would meet the government's expenses, these internal duties were
                            repealed. See Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2505-508
                            (December 23, 1817).
            
              16 Hendricks refers to the Battle of 
                Tippecanoe
              , which had occurred on November 7, 1811, more than six months before Congress
                            declared war.
            
              17 No law was passed naming Bigger's Rangers. Perhaps
                            Hendricks was referring to one that provided payment of forty cents per day for each horse
                            furnished by a volunteer mounted cavalryman during the War of 1812. See Annals
                                of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2563 (April 20, 1818). Congress authorized
                            the secretary of the treasury to transfer moneys from Indiana's three per cent fund
                            to the state at his discretion. See Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix 2537-38 (April 11, 1818).
          
           from Fort-Harrison [
            Terre Haute
          ], on a route as direct as practicable, to Brownstown; from 
            Salem
           by Bono, through 
            Lawrence county
           to the seat of justice of 
            Monroe
           [Blooming-ton]; and from Peola [Paoli] by Orleans, to the seat of justice of Lawrence [
            Bedford
          ]; and pains have been taken, to connect the arrival and departure of the mails, so as
                    to admit as little interruption as possible, to their steady progress through our country.

        Little doubt can be entertained but that commissioners will shortly be appointed and authorized, to
                    treat for a further extinguishment of indian title within the state of Indiana; and, from
                    information received from the best sources on that subject, as little doubt can be entertained of a
                    successful result to such negociation.18
        
        Few incidents of our political history ought we to hail as more important, than the organization of
                    western States. The State of 
            Mississippi
           has, during the present session, been admitted into the Union. This, and similar
                    events, increasing the American population on the 
            Mississippi
           and in those countries west of that river, will tend to a sameness of character, and a
                    more connected union of the different and distant section of this great republic. A law will in all
                    probability pass, authorising the people of the 
            Illinois
           Territory, to form for themselves a constitution and State Government.19" Petitions of a similar nature have also been presented from the Territory of 
            Missouri
          ; but no bill will be reported thereon during the present session.

        The cause of the Patriots of South-America, though subject to the vicissitudes of all revolutionizing
                    colonies, is still gaining strength. By degrees, and by exertions they have learned the art of war.
                    By the same means, some provincen [sic] have long since vanquis[h]ed the armies of
                    the ding [king], and others are marching forward, with a firm and steady pace, to liberty and
                    independence. The cause of the Patroits never needed the alliance of this or any other country. The
                    phisical resources—the men and the money, of these provinces, were equal to the cause
                    [i]n which they were engaged, 
            
              18 These negotiations culminated in the New Purchase treaties. See the
                            introduction, 307-308.
            
              19 The 
                Illinois
               Enabling Act was passed as Hendricks predicted. See Annals of
                                Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2544-47 (April 18, 1818).
          
           they only [njeeded to be taught the art of war. This [,] Their
                    future safety, and the maintenance of their independence, when gained, could not have dispensed with
                    that experience. In this they learnt an important lesson. They will remember the origin of their
                    liberties, and prize them in proportion to what they cost. History has very partially unfolded the
                    resources of those countries. The unaccredited minister of the republic of Buenos Ayres [
            Argentina
          ] is now at this place. He states, that for the last seven years, no successful army of
                    the king has had footing in his province; that since the year 1810, they have been governed by their
                    own institutions and laws; and that in that year the single province of Buenos Ayres was more
                    populous than was the 
            United States
          , in 1783.20"
        No favourable result has yet been had to our negociation with 
            Spain
          . The Chevalier de Onis had, heretofore, declined any cession on the part of 
            Spain
          , eastward of the 
            Mississippi
          , unless the boundaries of [the state of] 
            Louisiana
           should be taken into discussion, and the 
            United States

           should cede their claims to all the territory westward of that river; and was unwilling
                    to negotiate on the subject of spoliations on our commerce, and of the suppression of the deposite
                    at New-Orleans, until he should have received further instructions from his sovereign.21
        
        Of a recent date, on the suggestion of the Spanish minister, negociations on the existing differences
                    between the two nations have been renewed. The instructions from his sovereign, heretofore wished
                    for, are presumed to have been received. A disposition has been evinced, by the Spanish minister, to
                    renew the former discussion and the old pretentions of 
            Spain
           relative to the boundaries of 
            Louisiana
          . He has proposed a submission of the difference between the 
            United States
           and 
            Spain
          , to the mediation of one or more of the powers of Europe.

        The President has wisely declined such mediation; preferring no doubt, the fate of negociation,
                    & the last resort 
            
              20 Four years later the 
                United States

               extended diplomatic recognition to all "Independent nations on the
                            American continent." See Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix 2603-604 (May 4, 1822).
            
              21 Many American cargoes had been lost to pirates operating out of
                            Spanish ports on the Gulf of Mexico, and Americans in the Ohio Valley
                            had suffered damages when 
                Spain
               in 1802 retracted the right to deposit goods tax free at 
                New Orleans
               while they awaited export.
          
           of nations, to the mediation of any of the powers of Europe,
                    particularly that of the British government; which would wish a regulation at the mouth of the 
            Mississippi
          , favourable to her own commercial and monopolizing policy.
        With regard to the boundaries of 
            Louisiana
          , De Onis has been informed that his claims are inadmissible[,] that to dispose of the
                    territory of a sovereign and independent State, is not within the competency of the executive
                    government, & that the discussion on that subject will not, hereafter, be continued.
        From these last results of a thirteen years, negotiation and forbearance, on the part of our
                    government towards 
            Spain
           little remains to be hoped for from the justice of that nation. The policy of our
                    government, heretofore, has been to permit the negotiation to linger, waiting the arrival of a time,
                    when the interests of 
            Spain
           should incline her to justice. This policy may still be extended: the President being
                    authorized to take temporary possession of her contiguous territory, whenever he shall think it the
                    interest of the 
            United States
           so to do.22
        

        With the other powers of Europe, our relations have not recently changed; and the same balance of
                    power, which was fixed and established by the sovereigns of the continent, subsequent to the last
                    restoration of Louis XVIII, still continues to exist.23
        
        The adjournment of Congress will liekly [sic] take place between the 10 and 20th of
                    April. I expect to reach home shortly after the first of May.
        I am very respectfully, &c. WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
        
          
            22 The third session of the Eleventh Congress—by a joint
                        resolution and statutes enacted on January 15 and March 3, 1811—had secretly granted
                        the President discretionary authority to occupy 
              Florida
            . These actions were not published until seven years later. See Annals
                            of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2602-604 (January 15, March 3, 1811).
          
            23 After Emperor Napoleon's defeat at the Battle of Leipzig early
                        in 1814, he was exiled to the island of Elba off the coast of 
              Italy
            , and the Bourbon dynasty in the person of Louis XVIII was restored to the French
                        throne. The next year Napoleon returned to 
              France
             and regained control of the government. Defeated at the Battle of Waterloo about
                        three months later, he was exiled to St. Helena, an island in the south Atlantic, and Louis
                        XVIII returned to the throne. The victorious nations, meeting in the Congress of 
              Vienna
            , redrew the map of Europe to restore the balance of power and established the
                        "concert of Europe" to maintain it.
        
        
        
          Circular Relating to the 15th Congress, 2nd Session (1818-1819)
          24
        
        WASHINGTON CITY, February 15th, 1819.
        SIR,
        At the commencement of the present session, the House of Representatives proceeded to the list of
                    orders of the day, and until a late period, have been engaged in legislating upon the unfinished
                    business of last session. This unfinished business was principally a long list of individual claims
                    against the government: most of which had their origin in the late war, while some were of equal
                    date with the revolution. No question of great national importance presented itself for discussion,
                    until the Committee on Military Affairs, on the subject of the Seminole war, had made their report.
                    This report had long been looked for with anxiety, as likely to present for consideration questions
                    of much national importance. It gave rise to a very long and animated discussion, which took into
                    view the origin, progress, and termination, of the Seminole war, with its incidents; the seizure and
                    military occupation of the Spanish posts of St. Mark's and Pensacola, and the fortress of
                    the Barancas [in 
            Florida
          ].
        Much difference of opinion existed as to the constitutionality of the military movements of General
                    [Andrew] Jackson across the line, and the seizure and detention of the fortresses and territory of a
                    government at profound peace with the 
            United States
          . Whether the constitution of the 
            United States
           be violated or not, is a question with which 
            Spain
           has nothing to do; and the discussion has resulted in nothing which can, or ought to be
                    construed, to the prejudice of our negotiations with 
            Spain
          . No vote, of either censure or thanks, has passed the House of Representatives.25 No Spanish force having appeared, competent to retain possession of these
                    posts, and to guaranty an observance of the treaty of 1795, 
            
              24 This circular is reprinted from a broadside in the William
                            Hendricks Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library). This session of Congress
                            convened November 16, 1818, and adjourned March 3, 1819.
            
              25 Hendricks supported a series of House resolutions to censure
                            Jackson, but all were defeated. See Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            1136-38 (February 8, 1819).
          
           on the part of 
            Spain
          .26 They still remain in possession of our troops.
        At an early period of the session, a Committee of the House of Representatives were appointed to
                    inspect the books, and to examine into the proceedings of the Bank of the 
            United States
          . This Committee repaired to 
            Philadelphia

           for that purpose, and after a long and arduous examination and inquiry, made their
                    report. This report is an expose of a series of improprieties on the part of the
                    directors, not perhaps equalled in the history of any other moneyed institution. It has been
                    referred to a Committee of the whole House, on the state of the Union, and will shortly be taken up.
                    The Committee also reported a Bill, to correct the abuses of the directory, and to prevent them in
                    future. This bill will have many advocates, but I think it will not pass. If it were
                    unconstitutional to grant the charter at first, it is unconstitutional now to amend it. If so much
                    evil, and so littie [sic] good, have thus far been produced by the institution,
                    good policy would say, that the charter should be declared forfeited; that a few moneyed capitalists
                    at 
            Philadelphia
           should no longer govern the circulating medium of our country, and lay their heavy hand
                    on any district of the community they might think proper to press. They have had less specie capital
                    for the business they have done, than many local banks to whom they have refused credit; and have
                    afforded no commercial facilities, except to the East 
            India
           trade, in the article of specie for exportation.

        A proposition will be offered to repeal the charter, on the ground of its unconstitutionality, and on
                    the ground that no rights have vested in individuals, the previous conditions required by the
                    charter not having been performed by the stockholders. Should this fail, a proposition will be made
                    to direct a scire facias, in conformity with the act, calling upon the Corporation to show cause why
                    its charter should not be declared forfeited. This mammoth institution has become, in many places,
                    very unpopular. It has not answered the ends for which it was created. It has afforded few
                    facilities to the 
            
              26 By the Treaty of San Lorenzo the thirty-first parallel had been
                            established as the northern boundary of 
                Florida

              , and the nations had agreed to prevent raids across the border. See Hunter
                            Miller, ed., Treaties and Other International Acts of the 
                  United States
                 of America (8 vols., 
                Washington
              , 1931-1948), II, 318-45.
          
           operations of the Treasury. It has not equalized the currency
                    of the country. It has enriched its directors and stock-jobbers, at the expense of others. Its
                    depressing and monopolizing policy, in the western country, has borne, and is bearing, peculiarly
                    hard on the agricultural interests of that country.27
        
        A law will in all probability pass, giving a further extension of one year in favour of the
                    purchasers of public lands. This, however, will be but a temporary relief. The root of the evil must
                    be controlled, or removed, before we can expect prosperity, to be restored to the West. The conduct
                    of the local banks of the western country, is not to be justified; but the branches of the 
            United States
          ' Bank ceasing to injure us, the disorders of the paper currency of the solvent
                    banks, would, by the course and competition of business, be removed.

        I have some hopes that the Secretary of the Treasury will authorize the reception of the local bank
                    paper in the land offices; but of this I can say nothing with certainty.28
        
        Since I have had the honour of a seat in the national councils, I have witnessed the reception into
                    the Union, of three western States; and bills are now in progress, authorizing the people of the 
            Alabama
          , and a part of the people of the 
            Missouri

           territories, to form for themselves, constitutions and State governments. These
                    sections of the union will probably send forward their representatives to the next Congress.29
        

        The spirit of enterprize, in all parts of the Union, seems to be attracted by the fertility of our
                    soil, and the alluring prospects of the western country. An extensive theatre is opening for the
                    genius and industry of immigrants from the northern and southern States. In the course of the last
                    year, Indian title has been extinguished to more than fifty millions 
            
              27 Hendricks was not opposed to national banking in principle but to
                            current policies of the Second Bank of the 
                United States
              . Though the bank was mismanaged, it should not be held responsible for the
                            depression that accompanied economic readjustment following the Napoleonic wars.
            
              28 A few weeks later Hendricks reported that Secretary of the Treasury
                            William H. Crawford had authorized the 
                Vincennes

               Land Office to accept the notes of any solvent bank in the country. Hendricks
                            to editor, April 3, 1819, in Corydon Indiana Gazette, April 10, 1819.
            
              29 The 
                Alabama
               Enabling Act was passed as Hendricks predicted. See Annals of
                                Congress, 15 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix 2498-501 (March 2, 1819).
          
           of acres of western lands; and the vigorous enterprize of the
                    War Department is directing our arms and military operations to the vicinity of the Rocky Mountains.
                    During the next summer, posts are intended to be established on the 
            Missouri
           [River], at the Council Bluffs, the Great Bend,30 and the mouth of
                    the Yellow Stone [River]; and the experiment of the steam boat navigation on the Missouri
                        river, in the transportation of military stores, will shortly be made. Government is
                    also making an establishment on the shores of the Pacific Ocean, near the mouth of the
                        Columbia river; and a chain of posts is, no doubt, intended to connect that
                    point, with the mouth of the 
            Missouri
          .

        Our late treaties with the Indians for the White river and the Wabash
                        lands, have been ratified by the Senate.31 This ratification,
                    however, did not take place till a late period of the session. The surveys of the reservations and
                    purchase, will, no doubt, shortly be commenced, with a view of bringing those lands into market at
                    as early a day as possible.
        Our negotiations with 
            Spain
          , as far as communicated to Congress, are in a situation little different from what they
                    were at the close of the last session. The diplomatic correspondencies of the two governments,
                    during the last summer, has been little more than a recapitulation of former arguments and
                    statements of facts, on the same subjects; with the additional field of diplomacy, furnished by
                    [th]e operations of our army in the south. There is still, however, no prospect of a war with 
            Spain

          . Save St. Augustine, we have the Floridas and Amelia Island on the south; and west of
                    the Sabine [River], to the Rio del Norte, she has no armed force. She is feebly struggling with her
                    revolutionary colonies in South America, and against a nation so feeble and degraded, magnanimity
                    would seem to forbid an offensive war. Recent movements, however, are said to have been made in the
                    negotiations at this place, and it is also rumored with good prospects of a favourable result.32
        
        The congress at Aix La Chappelle have adjourned, without interfering with the affairs of 
            Spain
           and her South 
            
              30 Council Bluffs is in present day 
                Iowa
              , and the Great Bend is located about fifty miles below present day Pierre,
                            South Dakota.
            
              31 See footnote 17 above.
            
              32 The Adams-Onis or Transcontinental Treaty transferring 
                Florida
               to the 
                United States
               and establishing a boundary from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean was
                            concluded in 1821.
          
           American colonies. The allied sovereigns have contented
                    themselves with conferences and negotiations, about the general pacification of Europe and the
                    balance of power on the continent. They have withdrawn the army of occupation from 
            France
          , leaving the destiny of that monarchy in the hands of the Bourbons, while Bonaparte is
                    left to linger in miserable exile, on the Island of St. Helena.
        Since my arrival here, I have received many letters of inquiry, relative to applications for
                    revolutionary pensions, transmitted to the war office during the last summer. Satisfactory answers
                    to these inquiries, in most cases, I have found it impossible to obtain. The officer, however, at
                    the head of the pensions, has assured me, that previous to the close of the session, he will get
                    through his massy files, and give me information of all the cases from Indiana. The cases submitted
                    by myself through the winter, have not been placed on these files; but have been allowed or
                    rejected. This will account for the circumstance of some cases, which, though recently presented,
                    have been passed; while others, forwarded six or nine mo[n]ths ago, have not been taken up.
        The session will close on the third of March.
        Permit me to subscribe myself very respectfully, WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
        
          Circular Relating to the 16th Congress, 1st Session (1819-1820)
          33
        
        
          
            Washington City
          , April 10th, 1820.
        SIR: Since the commencement of the present Session of Congress, subjects as various in their nature,
                    as in their extent and importance, have been brought into view. Many subjects of general national
                    concern, have presented themselves for consideration, while the great mass of cases, belong to the
                    class of private claims for property impressed into the service, or lost and destroyed in the
                    service during the late war.

        The sufferers of this war are still asking relief. From the inglorious cantonments of the enemy at
                        Castine,34 to the 
            
              33 This circular is reprinted from a broadside in the John Armstrong
                            Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                Indianapolis
              ). This session of Congress convened December 6, 1819, and adjourned May 15,
                            1820.
            
              34 Castine is on Penobscot Bay in present day 
                Maine
              .
          
           memorable field of New-Orleans, cases have arisen, and are
                    presenting themselves, in the form of petition for indemnity. From the Niagara frontier, where a
                    large extent of country was laid waste—their houses and their villages pillaged and burnt
                    by an enemy, who respected neither the fireside nor the altar; from the Chesapeake, and all parts of
                    the coast where the enemy touched, claims are presented for the consideration of Congress.
        Two new States, during the present session, have been admitted into the Union. 
            Alabama
           on the southern extremity, and 
            Maine
           furthest to the north: the former at an earlier period of the session; the latter was
                    attached to the 
            Missouri
           Bill, from which it was not separated until the fate of the restriction of slavery in 
            Missouri
           had been fixed. Then it was detached, and the bill to admit 
            Maine
           into the Union, and the 
            Missouri
           Bill, became laws at the same period of the session. The history of the union of these
                    bills, have travelled with the sound of 
            Missouri
          , to every part of the 
            United States
          , and is known every where.
        The bill to authorize the people of 
            Missouri
           to form, for themselves, a Constitution and State government, produced much solicitude.
                    Its discussion was warm and animated. It was protracted beyond the length of ordinary debate; and
                    was disagreeable in the bitterness and excitement it produced. This was the character of a debate
                    which lasted in the House of Representatives more than a month, and nearly as long in the Senate.
                    The restriction of slavery in 
            Missouri
           was lost. The majority against it, was three votes in the House of Representatives.
        The military establishment of the 
            United States

          , since the close of the Revolution, has been constantly varying. From the reduction of
                    the army at the close of the Revolutionary war to the year 1787, the military establishment scarce
                    made an item in the public expenditure. In that year it was deemed expedient to station a corps of
                    seven hundred troops on the frontiers, for the protection of the inhabitants against the Indians. In
                    '89, this establishment did not amount to six hundred. From that time to the year 1810, the
                    numbers of the army were fluctuating, seldom exceeding 3,500 men. In 1812 war was declared, and the
                    army, in 1815, had increased to 32,000, independent of the vast numbers of  militia, which had been called into the service at various periods
                    during the war.
        In 1815, the present military peace establishment was fixed. The President was authorized to retain
                    in the service, not exceeding 10,000 men. In December, of the same year, the numbers retained in
                    service were 9413, and at the close of the last year, it was estimated to amount to 9,000 men. This
                    army is stationed at the various fortifications on the sea-board, the northern frontier, with a
                    strong detachment at the Council Bluffs, on the 
            Missouri
          , in advance toward the Mandane village,35 and the mouth of the
                    Yellow Stone.
        The navy of the 
            United States

          , since the late war, has been the peculiar favourite of the nation. Previous to that
                    war, the bravery and skill of our seamen, though signalized in the Mediterranean, had not fully
                    developed themselves to the American people.30 Until then, the people of the 
            United States
           were opposed to an extensive or permanent establishment, and the naval armaments of
                    former times were only intended for temporary purposes; which when effected, the vessels were sold,
                    and the armaments reduced. Such was the fact, in pursuance of the act of 1801, when fifteen vessels,
                    were sold for less than one half of what they had recently cost. A navy was thought to be beyond the
                    resources of the country; and it was not supposed, that the people would incline to be taxed for its
                    support.

        In 1811, the British navy consisted of 1042 vessels. Of this number in 1813, there were 164 in the
                    American Seas; while the American naval force in actual service in 1814, amounted to no more than
                    twenty-seven vessels. With such a disparity of force, and such an extent of coast on which it was
                    necessary for our little navy to cruize, nothing but defeat and capture, could reasonably have been
                    expected. But its brilliant achievements, on the ocean and the lakes, during the late war, has given
                    a character, and created for it a national pride, which continues to foster and cherish the 
            
              35 The location of the Mandan village was about fifty miles above
                            present day Bismarck, 
                North Dakota
              .
            
              36 President Thomas Jefferson had sent naval vessels into the
                            Mediterranean Sea to protect American commerce from the Barbary pirates of North Africa.
                            Though there were incidents of naval heroics there between 1801 and 1805, the problem of
                            piracy in the Mediterranean, was not resolved until after the War of 1812.
          
           navy.37 And we are now too much inclined to
                    naval and military preparations. We are going beyond the means of the country.
        The Spanish relations which had fixed the expectations and solicitudes of the nation, previous to the
                    meeting of the present Congress, remained with the committee of foreign relations to whom they had
                    been referred, until a late period of the session. A report was at length presented to the House by
                    that committee, authorizing the taking possession of the Floridas and other contiguous territory
                    claimed by 
            Spain
          .38 This report was committed to a committee of the whole on the
                    state of the Union, and would before this have been taken up, but for the recent complexion of our
                    foreign affairs, communicated in a late message [from President James 
            Monroe
          ] to both houses of Congress.39
        
        This message proposed for the consideration of Congress, the propriety of waiting the arrival of the
                    [new] minister of 
            Spain
          , before strong measures should be adopted in relation to that government. This minister
                    who has just arrived, is said to be clothed with explanations of the non-ratification of the treaty
                    on the part of the Spanish king, and with full powers to settle all controversies between the two
                    governments. The friendly interferences of the governments of Europe, particularly that of Russia;
                    their wishes that no step should be taken by the American government, which would lead to a war with 
            Spain
          , have, in part, dictated the measures recommended in the message. From various sources,
                    additional assurances have been given, that during the ensuing summer, will be terminated, our very
                    long negotiations with that government. Some resolutions have since been offered, which have drawn
                    the House incidentally, into the discussion of the treaty and the Spanish affairs generally; but no
                    practical result will be produced on this subject, during the present session. It is most probable
                    the treaty will be ratified.
        
          
            37 Early in the War of 1812 there were spectacular American naval
                        victories in single ship battles such as the "Constitution" versus the
                        "Guerriere" and the "
              United States

            " versus the "Macedonian." Later it was Commodore Oliver
                        Hazard Perry's victory in the Battle of Lake Erie that inspired the American people.
                        See Harry L. Coles, The War of 1812 (
              Chicago
            , 1965), 71-106, 121-29.
          
            38
            
              Spain
             still had not ratified the Adams-Onis Treaty, concluded on February 22, 1819. See
                        footnote 31 above.
          
            39 See James D. Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the
                            Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., 
              Washington
            , 1896-1899), II, 73-80.
        
        
        A resolution has been submitted, declaring it expedient to provide by law, a suitable outfit and
                    salary, for such minister or ministers as the president, by and with the advice and consent of the
                    Senate, may send to any of the governments of South America, which have established, and are
                    maintaining their independence. This resolution, if again taken up, will, in all probability pass
                    the House of Representatives. It would be desirable, that the government of the 
            United States
          , whose political tenets, the rising republics of the south are endeavoring to adopt,
                    should be the first to acknowledge their independence.
        The bill to suspend forfeitures [of unpaid-for land] for another year, has become a law. It is the
                    same in principle with the law of last session on that subject. It saves from forfeiture until the
                    31st of March, 1821, and protects no more than 640 acres in the hands of one person.

        The prompt payment bill, or the bill changing the present land system [to cash sales only], has
                    passed the Senate, and will, in all probability become a law. The represensatives [sic] from the east and the south, have become alarmed at the extent of the present landed
                    debt in the new States. This debt amounts, in all, to 22,000,000 dollars. Unable to arrest the
                    progress of the bill which last year proposed the price at one dollar and fifty cents per acre, it
                    has been the object of all from the west, to get the price as low as possible; and it is now likely
                    to pass at one dollar and twenty-five cents. Should the tendency of this change of system be found
                    prejudicial to the western States, this good may, at all events, be expected to accompany
                    it;—government will be more inclined to indulge those who are at present indebted, and
                    who are unable to pay for their lands.
        The necessities of the times have been fertile of expedients, to supply a deficit of currency, and to
                    restore credit to the circulating medium of the country.
        With this view, the House of Representatives by resolution of the last session, instructed the
                    secretary of the treasury [William H. Crawford], among other things, to report to Congress, at an
                    early period of the present session, such measures, as in his opinion may be expedient to procure
                    and retain, a sufficient quantity of gold and silver coin in the 
            United States

          , or to supply a circulating medium in place of specie, adapted to the exigencies of the
                    country, and within the power of the government. The report of the secretary  in obedience to this resolution, is against the policy of an issue of
                    treasury notes or government paper; and his opinion is, that any attempt by the substitution of a
                    paper currency, to arrest the evils we are suffering, would be abortive and produce the worst of
                    consequences.
        For these evils, public opinion is the best, and, perhaps, the only efficient corrective. Banks
                    unable to redeem their paper, will, as they ought, ultimately go down; while those banks which are
                    solvent, will resume a business which they can sustain, and which will be justified by the metallic
                    capital of the country.

        The encouragement of domestic manufactures [by means of a protective tariff] is a favourite measure
                    with a great many members. For this purpose bills have been reported to the House, but have not yet
                    been taken up. The merchants of the north, and the planters of the south, are generally opposed to
                    this interest—and whether a majority of the present Congress will be found in its favour
                    or not, is yet uncertain.40 The session will, probably, close about the first of
                    May.
        I am, with much respect, your obedient servant,
        WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
        
          Circular Relating to the 16th Congress, 2nd Session (1820-1821)
          41
        
        
          
            
              Washington City
            , 28th Feb. 1821.
        Since the commencement of my services in the National Legislature, I have never witnessed a season of
                    so much interest as the present. I have never seen one, in which the solicitudes of the nation, have
                    been so much directed towards Congress—their interests so generally presented, and
                    ardently pressed. The pecuniary embarrassments of the times, have been co-extensive with the Union.
                    The interests and necessities of almost every section, have found their way into the Hall, and have
                    advocates on the floor of the House of Representatives.
        
          
            40 The tariff was not revised at that time.
          
            41 This circular is reprinted from the 
              Hamilton
             (
              Ohio
            ) Volunteer, April 18, 1821 (
              Cincinnati
             Historical Society, 
              Cincinnati
            ). The editor of the Volunteer labels this circular an "Extract of a letter to the Editors of the Indiana
                            Republican…." This session of Congress convened November 13, 1820,
                        and adjourned March 3, 1821.
        
        
        The protection of our manufactures; of our shipping interests; the mercantile concerns or conditions
                    of our country; the more national subject of our Spanish relations; and that which above all is most
                    important to the Western Country, the subject of relief to purchasers of public
                    lands—have all been presented to our view, & till very lately have all been
                    unacted upon, or acted upon without effect; while the distressing tendency, and the consumption of
                    time in useless debate of the 
            Missouri
           question, promised little practical good to the nation, from the present session.
        This question it is believed, is finally settled. 
            Missouri

           is prospectively and conditionally admitted into the Union. The condition is for her
                    Legislature to perform, which being done, on or before the fourth Monday in November next, her
                    Senators and Representatives will be entitled to seats in the next Congress.42
        
        The long agitated and deeply interesting subject of our relations with 
            Spain
           has at length been put at rest. The 
            Florida
           [Adams-Onis] Treaty has been ratified by the King, with the consent and authority of
                    the Cortes, and has again been ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
                    Senate. Full effect thereby given to its provisions.

        By this treaty we gain the Floridas, on the south and on the west a district of territory in breadth
                    seven degress [sic], or 483 miles, and extending from the western limits of the
                    ancient 
            Louisiana
           to the south sea [Pacific]. We gain the important harbour and military position of
                    Pensacola, & the point of 
            Florida
           extending to the vicinity of 
            Cuba
          , from which we will be able, with more ease and certainty, to check and control the
                    piracies in the gulph of Mexico. It will be gratifying to the friends of philanthropy and liberty,
                    to see the mild and salutary influence of the Republic extended beyond the summit of the Rocky
                    Mountains, to the 
            Columbia
          , on the shores of the Pacific ocean.

        The district of country between the Sabine and the Rio del Norte, should good policy require, will
                    very naturally attach itself to us. Should South America succeed in her independence, of which there
                    can at present be no reasonable doubt, our settlements and institutions bordering on the north,
                        
            
              42 The 
                Missouri
               legislature made a gesture of compliance, and 
                Missouri
              's admission to the Union was proclaimed by President 
                Monroe
               on August 10, 1821.
          
           Mexico herself cannot long remain a colony of Old 
            Spain
          . She will form for herself a republican form of government, and 
            Texas
          , from her position and population, will incline and attach herself to the 
            United States
          .
        No recognition of the independence of the South American Provinces, has yet taken place on the part
                    of our Government; nor has any legislative act been adopted on the subject, during the present
                    session. A resolution, however, passed the House of Representatives, pledging the constitutional
                    support of the House, to the President of the 
            United States
          , when ever he may recognize the sovereignty and independence of any of those Provinces.
        The recent successes of the [South American] Patriots have terminated in a cessation of hostilities,
                    for six months between the armies of the Republic, and the troops of the King [of 
            Spain
          ]. Independent governments are regularly organized, and negociations are in progress
                    between the contending parties. These will in all probability, as did those between the 
            United States
           and G. Britain, terminate in a treaty of amity, and a recognition on the part of
                    Ferdinand [of 
            Spain
          ], of the independence of South America.
        The bill for the relief of the purchasers of public lands, has at length become a law.43 It is liberally adapted to the situation of the Territories, and the new States. It
                    permits the purchasers, or legal holders of land certificates, on or before the 30th day of
                    September 1821, to relinquish in writing to the Register of the Land Office, a part of the land held
                    and not paid for, in payment of the residue, or part of the residue, which they may retain. All the
                    moneys paid on the land so relinquished, shall be applied so as to complete the payment, on some one
                    or more tract retained, where the sums are sufficient for that purpose. On tracts paid for in this
                    way, no deduction of principal is made, but in all cases, the interest previous to the 30th of
                    September, 1821, is remitted.

        It further provides, that all purchasers, who do not relinquish a sufficient quantity of land to
                    close their accounts with the Government, shall be divided into three classes. The first class,
                    includes persons who have paid one fourth; the second class, those who have paid one half; and the
                    third class, 
            
              43 The space given to this matter and the quantity of details included
                            doubtless reflect the need of Hendricks' constituents for such legislation.
          
           those who have paid three fourths, of the original purchase
                    money. The debts of the persons included in the first class, to be paid in eight, those of the
                    second class, in six, and those of the third class, in four, equal annual instalments. All these
                    payments without interest, if punctually made. The first instalment of the first class, to be paid
                    on the 31st day of March, 1822, that of the second class, on the 31st of December next, and that of
                    the third class, on the 30th day of September next; and on the cash payments, if completed on or
                    before the 30th of September, 1822, a discount of thirty seven and a half cents [per cent] is
                    allowed.
        All persons, in order to avail themselves of the benefits of the act must, on or before the 30th of
                    September next, file in the Register's Office, his relinquishment or other declaration, in
                    writing, expressing his consent to whatever provision of the act, he may select, for closing his
                    accounts with the government.
        The law, I think is liberal, beyond the expectations and hopes of any portion of the Western country.
                    It is made so, to prevent future applications for relief, by making the relief now granted
                    sufficiently extensive.
        With much respect, I remain your obedient servant.
        WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
        
          Circular Relating to the 17th Congress, 1st Session (1821-1822)
          44
        
        
          
            
              Washington City
            , April 16 [1822].

        SIR: Few Sessions of Congress, since the commencement of the government, have taken up more business
                    of great national importance, than the present. The ratio and apportionment of representation for
                    the present census, occupied its early attention. The difficulties incident to this subject, the
                    diversity of interests in various sections of the Union and the consequent difference of opinion in
                    relation to the number proper for the House of Representatives, together with the delay occasioned
                    by the want of returns from 
            
              44 This circular is reprinted from the Madison Indiana
                                Republican, May 9, 1822 (Archives Division, Indiana State Library). The editor of
                            the Indiana Republican labels this circular an "Extract of a letter from the Hon. Wm. Hendricks to the
                                Editor..." This session of Congress convened December 3, 1821, and
                            adjourned May 8, 1822.
          
           some districts retarded the passage of the apportionment bill
                    until a late period of the Session; and the legislatures of several States, will have special
                    Sessions during the present year, for the purpose of forming Congressional districts.
        The members elected under the present census, will take their seats in the next
                    Congress,—the ratio is fixed at 40,000. The State of Indiana is entitled to three
                    members, and the legislature have done wisely, in anticipating the number and in districting the
                    State, thereby avoiding the necessity of an extra Session for that purpose.
        On the formation of the Government under the constitution of the 
            United States
          , the House of Representatives consisted of 65 members. For the first census, the number
                    was increased to 105; for the second to 141; for the third to 181, and for the
                    presents—the fourth census, it will be organised with 212; making in a little more than
                    40 years, an increase of more than double its original number, while the ratio of representation has
                    risen from thirty to forty thousand. The population, according to the census of 1790, was 3,921,326;
                    that of 1800, was 5,319,762; that of 1810, 7,239,902; and that of 1820, is 9,637,999. Thus in the
                    short space of 40 years, almost tripling our population, while the nations of the old world, are in
                    this respect on the ebb and flow, sometimes increasing, and sometimes decreasing, as plenty or
                    famine, peace or war, happen to favor or to frown upon human life.
        The bill for the organization of a Territorial Government for the Floridas, although reported at an
                    early period, did not until lately become a law. A proposition for the annexation of West 
            Florida
           to 
            Alabama
          , was made by the Legislature of that State, and was much pressed in the Senate. The
                    policy too of annexing East 
            Florida
           to 
            Georgia
          , was spoken of; but their limits are not changed, and the bill for their government,
                    recognises the same boundaries they had in the hands of 
            Spain
          .

        The bankrupt bill, a measure almost as important to the commercial interests of the east, as our land
                    [relief] bill of last Session to us in the west, was strongly urged upon the House of
                    Representatives, and seems to have been lost by the mismanagement of its friends. The merchants now,
                    as the manufacturers heretofore, by asking too much, have got nothing. They asked to be shielded in
                    prosperity, from those  debts which in adversity they had become
                    unable to pay, and that the jurisdiction created by the bill, should be put into the hands of the
                    courts of the 
            United States
          ; increasing, in a great degree, the mammoth power already in the hands of the federal
                    judiciary.

        Early in the session, the committee on the public lands, reported a bill, amendatory to the land
                    relief law of last session. It authorises those who did not avail themselves of the provisions of
                    that law, to transact their business in the land offices, on or before the 30th of September next,
                    & places them in the same situation with those who come forward previous to the 30th of
                    Sept. last. This bill has passed both houses, & wants only the signature of the president to
                    become a law.45
        
        Funds have been provided, for the payment in full of the pensioners within the state.46 This was unavoidably procrastinated, until the appropriation bill, containing that item
                    of expenditure, should pass—the sums previously appropriated for that object, having been
                    misapplied and insufficient for the purpose. The whole number of persons on the revolutionary
                    pension roll, amounted on the 7th February last to 11,932.
        A bill has been reported, authorizing the selection of school lands, for Clark's grant, and
                    that part of the 
            Vincennes
           donation tract, for which no selections, have yet been made.47 A
                    bill has been reported, and has passed the Senate, for the location of a land office at Fort 
            Wayne
          .48
        

        A bill is among the orders of the day, making additional appropriations for the location of the
                    National Road from 
            
              45 President 
                Monroe
               approved the bill four days after this circular was written. See Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2591-92 (April 20, 1822).
            
              46 This was a general Revolutionary pension bill that Hendricks chose
                            to relate to Indiana. See Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix
                            2573-75 (February 4, 1822).
            
              47 Both the Ordinance of 1785 and the Indiana Enabling Act had
                            reserved section sixteen in each township for the support of public schools. The Clark land
                            grant, which embraced Clarksville, and the 
                Vincennes

               land grant had been made earlier, however, and special legislation was required
                            to enable them to share in the federal land grants for the support of education. See Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix 2618 (May 7, 1822).
            
              48 This bill became law, but it prohibited the President from staffing
                            the Fort 
                Wayne

               Land Office until additional land in that region had been surveyed and thus
                            made ready for sale. See Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix
                            1633-34 (May 8, 1822).
          
           Wheeling to the 
            Mississippi
          , and making the seats of Government, in the states of 
            Ohio
          , Indiana, and 
            Illinois
          ,4'' points on the road. No permanent location has
                    yet been made, further west than 
            Zanesville
           [
            Ohio
          ], but should the appropriation be made, the work will progress the ensuing season.50
        
        Our three per cent, fund, as appears by a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury communicated to
                    the house, amounted, on the 31st of May, 1821, to 42,629 dollars 46 cents. This statement, however,
                    excludes from the calculation the sales of last summer, which in the 
            Brookville

           district were very large, and the payments which, under the land relief law, have been
                    made on lands purchased since the first day of December, 1816. The whole fund may now fairly be
                    estimated at 60,000 dollars.51
        
        Since the close of the last war, the commerce and the revenue of the 
            United States

          , have experienced much change. The nett revenue of 1815, was little less than fifty
                    millions of dollars. In 1820, it was little more than fifteen millions. The first years of the peace
                    were years of unexampled prosperity. The national debt which on the 30th September, 1815, was
                    estimated at one hundred and fifty eight millions of dollars, was, on the 30th of September, 1820,
                    reduced to ninety one millions, payments having been made in that interval, to the amount of sixty
                    six millions. In the single year of 1817, the disbursements on account of the principal and interest
                    of the public debt, amounted to more than 25 millions. This was prosperity perhaps unparallelled.
                    But in the year 1820, the other side of the picture presented itself. In that year a loan of three
                    millions became necessary, to defray the ordinary expenses of the Government; and to pay the
                    interest of the debt. During the last year, the same policy was pursued; increasing, instead of
                    diminishing the debt of 91 millions. The importations of 1815 and '16 were excessive: they
                    far exceeded our exports—put the balance of trade largely against us, and drained the
                    country of the precious metals. Nor indeed can we reasonably expect a very great improvement 
            
              49 The state capitals at this time were 
                Columbus, Ohio;
                                    Indianapolis
              , Indiana; and
                            Vandalia, 
                Illinois
              .
            
              50 There was no Cumberland Road appropriation during that session.
            
              51 There was no appropriation from Indiana's three per cent
                            fund at that time.
          
           of the revenue arising from the customs, while the foreign
                    markets furnish so little demand for our exports, by which our imports must necessarily be
                    regulated.

        This state of affairs will impose the necessity on Congress of diminishing the expenditure of the
                    Government, and of managing its Treasury on principles of economy which the present times
                    imperiously require. Our peace establishments were organized in the year 1815, when the revenues of
                    the country promised means equal to the wishes of prodigality itself; and it is not wonderful, that
                    at the close of a war, in which the Army and the Navy were identified with the affections of the
                    people those establishments should have been made as they were. But our expenditures must be brought
                    within our means and the administration of Mr. Monroe will terminate with increased reputation,
                    should he go forward, as it is believed he will, in such system of economy and retrenchment as will
                    afford the prospect of extinguishing the National Debt in a reasonable time, and promote the solid
                    improvement, and prosperity of the nation. The army has already been reduced to 6,000 men; and a
                    bill is reported to fix a naval peace establishment, leaving the Navy in the opinion of its friends
                    as effective as it now is, and reducing considerably its charge upon the Treasury.52
        
        For the want of National prosperity, however, we ought not to complain. The pecuniary affairs of the
                    country, it is true, have undergone a very great change. The nation, as well as individuals, have
                    felt that change. Neither the one nor the other are yet prepared for the present state of things.
                    The quantity of our circulating medium has been much reduced. Public opinion has driven from
                    circulation worthless Bank paper, and the merchants have exchanged our specie for European goods;
                    but men have returned to their natural pursuits. Speculation is more generally abandoned, and the
                    credit system done away; and when the embarrassments produced by former times shall have
                    disappeared, we shall not want the quantity of circulating medium which heretofore has been
                    necessary for us. Within the last year manufactures have flourished more than at any period previous
                    to the last war; and the population of the Western Country has advanced with a rapidity heretofore
                    unknown.
        
          
            52 This bill, limiting the size of the navy, was not enacted into
                    law.
        
        
        During the period of my services in the National Legislature six states have been admitted into the
                    Union. Since the admission of Indiana—
            Mississippi, Illinois, Alabama, Maine
          , and 
            Missouri
          , have, in succession, assumed the rank of independent States.
        The Union has been strengthened and extended from the Bay of Fundy, to the Mexican Gulph. The
                    Floridas have been added to the jurisdiction and the sovereignty of the 
            United States

          ; and our boundary enlarged beyond the Rocky mountains, to the
                    shores of the Pacific Ocean.53 No period of our history since the close of the
                    revolution, is better calculated to gratify the mind of the philanthropist, or to pourtray the
                    destinies of this great republic.
        Nor have the principles of our republican institutions been confined to the limits of our own
                    government. During the last year, the progress and the triumphs of their revolutionary armies, have
                    established the independence of South America and Mexico, and the present Congress have recognized
                    them as Governments, independent of 
            Spain
          .54 Buenos-Ayres [
            Argentina
          ], Chili, Peru, Venezuela, and G[r]enada, the two latter of which forming the Republic
                    of 
            Colombia
          , have representative forms of Government; and, with the exception of the Brazils, where
                    the name, but not the power of the king of Portugal still exists, there remains scarcely a vestige
                    of monarchy in South America.
        In Mexico the authority of the king of 
            Spain
           is put down. The people have become independent, but so far as they have settled at all
                    their political institutions, they are yet monarchical. The principles of the revolution, however,
                    are not likely there to rest. They will, in all probability, adopt the forms of government which
                    surround them, and add another to the republics of the new world.

        The attitude of the nations beyond the Atlantic, has not been as peaceful the last year as
                    heretofore. Russia and the Turkish Provinces of Europe, menace the government of the Grand
                        Seignor.55 The borders of the Hellespont, and the fields 
            
              53 See the introduction, 305.
            
              54 See footnote 19 above.
            
              55 This may be a reference to the Ottoman Empire, whose Balkan and
                            Near Eastern interests conflicted with those of Russia, and whose European provinces sought
                            independence.
          
           of ancient 
            Greece
          , will probably be again the theatre of war.56 The holy alliance of
                    Sovereigns seem unable to agree among themselves. The struggle for constitutional liberty in Naples
                    has long since been abandoned, but the political aspect of 
            Spain
           promises a further advance upon the powers and the prerogatives of the crown.57 The French revolution was the beginning of a new era; and although its
                    principles and advocates slumber for the present, the former superstitious veneration for legitimacy
                    and the rights of kings, will probably never be restored, and the idea of representative government
                    which it brought into view, and which is now existing in 
            Spain
          , may yet change entirely the complexion of Europe.
        The Session will close the 8th of next month.
        With much respect, Your obedient servant
        WILLIAM HENDRICKS.
        
          
            56
            
              Greece
             had been a part of the Ottoman Empire since the middle of the fifteenth century.
                        Though the Greeks revolted against their Turkish overlords in 1821, their independence was not
                        achieved until 1832.
          
            57 Constitutional government took root in neither Naples nor 
              Spain
             at that time.
        
      
      
      
        Book Reviews
        
          Fundamental Testaments of the American Revolution. Library of Congress Symposia
                    on the American Revolution. (
            Washington
          : Library of Congress, 1973. Pp. 119. Notes. $3.50.)

        The papers published in this volume were delivered at the second Library of Congress Symposium on the
                    American Revolution. The first symposium in 1972 took as its theme The Development of a
                        Revolutionary Mentality. Subsequent conferences will discuss leadership in the era of the
                    Revolution (1974), the impact of the Revolution abroad (1975), and the incomplete Revolution (1976).
                    They all form part of the library's salute to the Bicentennial.
        The fundamental testaments here discussed are Tom Paine's Common Sense,
                    the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Treaty of 
            Paris
           of 1783; and on each of these Bernard Bailyn, Cecelia Kenyon, Merrill Jensen, and R. B.
                    Morris, respectively, write elegant and informed essays. Obviously, as Julian Boyd says in
                    introducing the papers, other topics could have been selected or at least added to these: the 
            Virginia
           Statute for Religious Freedom, George Mason's draft of the 
            Virginia
           Declaration of Rights, the Treaty of Alliance with 
            France
          , and not least the Ordinances of 1784 and 1787—but all of these are omitted
                    or at least seen as less "Fundamental." But one can be grateful for these four
                    essays which, despite their brevity, give the views and verdicts of four masters of Revolutionary
                    scholarship.

        Bernard Bailyn's task was perhaps the most difficult of all, since, with all its fire and
                    its timing, Common Sense is not a work with the quality of the other three
                    documents. Compared to many of the Revolutionary leaders, Paine was an
                    "ignoramus," admits Bailyn. He does not attempt to measure the pamphlet's
                    influence on independence but to isolate its special quality—"something bizarre,
                    outsize, unique" (p. 11). Part of that quality lies in the power of its language, vivid and
                    sharp, and the force of its imagery. Part of it lies in the even greater force of its
                    "intellectual idiom," its capacity for looking afresh at the basic habits of
                    Anglo-American thought. But to Bailyn "the dominant tone of Common Sense
                    is that of rage"; its aim was "to tear the world apart" (p. 20). And this
                    is a quality that Bailyn believes links it both with the left wing views of the English Civil War
                    and equally with the brilliant savagery of William Hogarth's paintings.
        
        Merrill Jensen brings out the extent of the divisions that lay behind the drafting of the Articles,
                    divisions that were ideological, social, and economic. The Articles reflected those divisions. It
                    was in his view "a way station on the road to another constitution" (p. 76), and
                    it expressed the views of those like Sam Adams and Richard Henry Lee who believed that a truly
                    federal government of sovereign states was the best government for a diverse nation.

        Professor Morris does not attempt in his essay the difficult, indeed impossible, task of summarizing
                    in twenty pages the treaty making of 1782-1783, which he did brilliantly and in depth in his The Peacemakers. His essay is indeed a commentary on that book—on the
                    difficulties facing the negotiators, on their skill in yielding on trivial questions in order to
                    ensure absolute independence, and a continental domain, for the thirteen states. Unfortunately he
                    does not resist the temptation of drawing comparisons with the North 
            Vietnam
           War and the North 
            Vietnam
           negotiations. Many of these references will, one suspects, become rapidly dated, nor
                    are the parallels always easy to sustain.
        The essay of greatest subtlety and value in this book, however, is Cecelia Kenyon's study of
                    the Declaration. She sees its links with the world and the words of the Levellers, along lines that
                    Bailyn would endorse. She praises its qualities of indefiniteness and imprecision and notes the
                    absence from this revolutionary theory, unlike later variants, of "a hierarchy of
                    values" (p. 36). America's revolutionary strength lay in its long experience of
                    constitutional, if not formally of republican, politics, and in the talents of some great men,
                    notably Thomas Jefferson himself. And in emphasizing Jefferson's own concern with property,
                    she notes the phenomenon which in the end weakened the social revolutionary potential of this
                    particular Revolution.
        In his useful concluding essay, James Russell Wiggins, long editor and ornament of the 
            Washington
          
          Post and now editor and publisher of the Ellsworth American,
                    dwells on the relevance of these fundamental texts for the present day. The authors of the documents
                    were writing for later ages, as well as their own, and were aware of the need for "a decent
                    respect to the opinions of mankind." Wiggins reminds the reader that the Paine of 1776 was
                    somewhere else twenty  years later and was by that time no lover
                    of the 
            United States
          . And he has a cautionary note to add: 
            The luminous phrases of our Revolutionary testaments are more likely to catch the eye in each
                            passing generation, including our own, than the more realistic acknowledgements of the
                            limitations on human achievement. We can be more easily roused to the arduous pursuit of
                            happiness than we can be persuaded to accept the realization that it cannot always be
                            achieved.
            What do the testaments of that small, embryonic state have to say to the great nation it has
                            become?
            Oddly enough, they have more to say than ever before, because they are filled with wisdom
                            that counsels restraint in the exercise of great power—restraint in the
                            application of that power abroad, restraint in the imposition of that power on citizens at
                            home. And the greater the nation becomes, the greater the country becomes, and the more
                            powerful its government becomes, the more it needs that wisdom.
          
        
        The testaments and the words in them mattered greatly. But words can deceive. It was the quality of
                    the men in power in the Revolution, the men who wrote and used the words but knew their limitations
                    and their dangers, that made of them not propagandists but statesmen.
        
          Institute of 
              United States
             Studies, University of 
              London,
                                London
            , U.K.
        
        Esmond Wright
      
      
        
          Independence on Trial: Foreign Affairs and the Making of the Constitution. By
                    Frederick W. Marks III. (
            Baton Rouge
          : 
            Louisiana
           State University Press, 1973. Pp. xvi, 256. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
        It is surprising that some such book as this has not been written before. Since World War II American
                    diplomatic history has matured as a research field. Yet most standard constitutional histories still
                    underplay the role of Confederation foreign relations in shaping the Constitution, except for treaty
                    making, appointive powers, and the two thirds rule. Even in the 1920s Samuel Flagg Bemis and Arthur
                    P. Whitaker implied many things about the background of the Constitution which have long called for
                    explicit development; and more recent scholarship on the foreign relations of the Confederation
                    period needs to be related to the discussions of the 1787 convention.

        It is this task which Professor Marks has undertaken. Briefly stated, his thesis is that the
                    cumulative humiliations  suffered by the young Confederation in
                    the 1780s—the British retention of the Northwest forts and refusal to open the West
                    Indies freely to American shipping; the Spanish efforts to maneuver John Jay into accepting the
                    temporary closure of the 
            Mississippi
          ; and the depredations of the Barbary pirates—reinforced nationalist demands
                    for a strong government which could make the 
            United States
           respected abroad. Balanced neatly between causes which would inflame seaboard
                    merchants, southern planters, and western settlers, these humiliations helped create a national mood
                    (which Marks summarizes effectively in one of his best chapters). Without this mood it might have
                    been difficult to prevail on the states to give up some of their rights.
        Most of this thesis is familiar enough, but Marks has developed it more fully and explicitly than
                    anyone else. He presents it attractively enough for nonspecialists and with enough footnotes for
                    most specialists. The insistence on the importance of Barbary depredations is a relatively new
                    emphasis. The chapter on the West Indian trade question challenges some earlier writings but offers
                    a lucid and generally convincing account. Marks is not quite so effective on the Northwest forts;
                    here the reader should revert to Bemis and A. L. Burt for a better exposition. Marks seems to accept
                    the British case against the 
            United States
           for failure to enforce the peace treaty regarding Loyalists and debts, without
                    emphasizing the significance of the treaty phraseology ("Congress shall earnestly
                    recommend," etc.) or the apparent bad faith of George Ill's restraining order to
                    the governor general of 
            Canada
          , drawn up the day before His Majesty signed the treaty.
        The emphasis of the book falls on the background of the Constitutional Convention. In his one chapter
                    on the convention Marks wisely does not attempt detailed coverage; nor does he emphasize those
                    questions which proved of lasting importance. Considering the many later controversies over treaties
                    in and around the 
            United States
           Senate, the reader might wish a little more discussion of the treaty making power per se. But this emphasis is consistent with the general orientation of the book;
                    it looks backward toward precedents and causes, rather than forward toward the effects of actions
                    taken at 
            Philadelphia
           in 1787.

        This book will fill a palpable gap in courses dealing with the Confederation period and with early
                    American foreign  relations. Students inquisitive enough to read
                    the introduction will get a bonus—a concise summary of historiography concerning the
                    Constitution.
        
          Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          
        
        David M. Pletcher
      
      
        
          The Spanish in the Mississippi Valley, 1762-1804. Edited by
                    John Francis MeDermott. (
            Urbana
          : University of 
            Illinois
           Press, 1974. Pp. xiii, 421. Notes, appendices, illustrations, maps, index.
                    $15.00.)
        John Francis MeDermott, who has spent much of his distinguished career studying the early history of
                    the Mississippi Valley, has assembled a collection of sixteen essays describing
                    various facets of that region during the years that it was under Spanish control. Employing the same
                    format that he utilized in two earlier works that surveyed French influence in the
                        Mississippi Valley, MeDermott includes articles by many of Spanish 
            Louisiana
          's most prominent scholars.
        The collection opens with Father John Francis Bannon's brief introductory essay which
                    provides an overview of early Spanish activity in the Mississippi Valley. Three
                    subsequent articles by Father Charles Edwards O'Neill, A. Otis Hebert, Jr., and C. Harvey
                    Gardiner examine the present state of studies on Spanish colonial 
            Louisiana
           and suggest future research opportunities in the field.
        The evolution of 
            Spain
          's land policy is the topic of C. Richard Arena's essay, and this
                    article is followed by William S. Coker's discussion of the role of the Bruin family in the
                    formulation of Spanish immigration policies for 
            Louisiana
           in the 1780s. John Preston Moore and Robert L. Gold relate incidents in the careers of
                    Antonio de Ulloa and Bernardo de Galvez to the development of Anglo-Spanish relations in North
                    America. Abraham P. Nasatir offers some newly discovered documents that help fill gaps in his
                    previously published accounts of pioneer-explorer Pedro Vial, while Noel M. Loomis traces the
                    activities of adventurer Philip Nolan and speculates about his possible involvement with James
                    Wilkinson.

        Other selections include Jack D. L. Holmes' examination of Spanish attempts to regulate
                    taverns and the liquor trade in the Mississippi Valley and Samuel
                    Wilson's detailed account  of 
            New Orleans
           philanthropist and builder Andres Almonester. Anthropologists John C. Ewers and Carl
                    Chapman provide useful assessments of Spanish attempts to manage Indian affairs. One of the finest
                    essays in the collection is John G. Clark's perceptive analysis of the role of municipal
                    government in the economic development of 
            New Orleans
          . In the final selection, McDermott marshalls an array of documentary evidence to help
                    rescue Upper 
            Louisiana
          's Lieutenant Governor Fernando de Leyba from charges of ineptitude.
        Much that is contained in these essays will be familiar to students of the Mississippi
                        Valley. Those expecting to find significant amounts of new material are likely to be
                    disappointed. The book covers a wide range of topics, but it also reflects 
            Spain
          's limited impact upon 
            Louisiana
           after more than forty years of rule.
        As in any undertaking of this type, the essays vary in quality. Unfortunately many tend to be more
                    descriptive than analytical. Still the collection is solid, if not exciting. It provides useful
                    summaries, and in a few areas it expands knowledge and understanding of Spanish 
            Louisiana
          .
        
          Central 
              Missouri
             State University Warrensburg
        
        William E. Foley
      
      
        
          Voices from the Wilderness: The Frontiersman's Own Story. Edited, with
                    introductions, by Thomas Froncek. (
            New York
          : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1974. Pp. xv, 360. Maps, notes. $9.95.)
        This rich anthology assembles excerpts from the stories of well known folk heroes like Daniel 
            Boone
          , Davy Crockett, Kit Carson, and Buffalo Bill as well as almost two dozen other
                    "voices from the wilderness," many of them practically unknown to modern readers.
                    Selections range from the mid-eighteenth century pioneers in the Old West to the trappers and
                    traders on the Plains and in the Rockies in the nineteenth century. Designed for the general reader,
                    the accounts are relatively short, presented with brief introductions by the current editor but
                    without editorial changes from the early printings and with only an occasional editorial note by an
                    original editor.
        
        Most of the men of the frontier knew how to tell a good story! Here one feels the terror
                    of Alexander Henry, a trader caught in the fort at Mackinac during Pontiac's Rebellion,
                    watching the massacre of his fellow Englishmen. One shares the purposefulness of Daniel 
            Boone
           walking away from his Indian captors to hike over one hundred sixty miles in five clays
                    with only one meal in order to warn the settlers of Boonesborough of impending attack or marvels at
                    John Colter's race for survival, naked, chased by vengeful Black-foot for six miles.
        As the editor notes, the frontiersmen helped to shape America's image of itself. But
                    excitement and color have too often made for myth and obscured reality. The frontier frequently
                    coarsened men. Arrogance and brutality are evident in many of these accounts, as well as an attitude
                    of cultural superiority toward the Indians. In search of private gain or adventure, the frontiersman
                    inevitably helped blaze the trails and passes that carried the nation westward, but he also
                    senselessly slaughtered the beaver and buffalo, provoked and killed Indians, and sometimes exhibited
                    a selfish callousness toward his own companions. On the other hand, these accounts also offer
                    surprising expressions of tenderness, appreciation of the grandeur of the wilderness, and a
                    remarkable sensitivity.
        Despite the subtitle and the dustjacket not all the accounts are true, as Froncek cautions, and some
                    of the tales are told about the frontiersmen and not by them. Readers must remember that tall tales
                    came naturally to the westerner, a typical kind of frontier wit often intentionally perpetrated on
                    the eastern dude.
        Hopefully, this collection will lead the interested reader back to the original, full accounts,
                    whetting his appetite for more about the story of our way west.
        
          
            
              Butler
             University, 
              Indianapolis
            
          
        
        George M. Waller
      
      
        
          William H. Crawford, 1772-1834. By Chase C. Mooney. (
            Lexington
          : The University Press of 
            Kentucky
          , 1974. Pp. xi, 364. Notes, note on sources, index. $15.00.)
        During his active political career, William H. Crawford was regarded by most of his contemporaries as
                    a major national figure. He was senator from 
            Georgia
           during the last  Jefferson and first 
            Madison
           administrations and then went on to be minister to 
            France
           for two years. When the War of 1812 ended, Crawford was appointed secretary of war by
                    James 
            Madison
          , after which he served throughout James 
            Monroe
          's eight presidential years as secretary of the treasury. Extraordinarily
                    popular in Congress, politically adroit, very affable and physically attractive, Crawford seemed a
                    sure bet to become President of the 
            United States
          . He backed away from the nomination in 1816, and when illness struck him down in 1823,
                    his national career collapsed.
        Although his health improved sufficiently after his return to 
            Georgia
           for him to serve competently as state superior judge for the northern circuit, his
                    influence at home steadily declined, and it is unlikely he would have been reelected when his term
                    on the bench expired in 1834. Crawford recognized this possibility and therefore asked President
                    Andrew Jackson for an appointment to the 
            United States
           Supreme Court when a place became vacant with the death of Justice William Johnson.
                    Unfortunately—or perhaps fortunately, considering all the blows he had sustained over the
                    last few years—he died two weeks after he made his request. Not much later it was said
                    that Crawford retained only a "shadow" of a reputation. Today, even that shadow
                    has disappeared. Scholars have neglected him. 
            Georgia
           has accorded him scant recognition. His grave site goes unattended; the marble slab
                    covering the grave is broken; and the iron fence around it has fallen apart.
        Poor Crawford. He deserves a good biography because he was in fact an important figure of the early
                    nineteenth century. But his ill luck still persists, for the late Chase C. Mooney has not provided a
                    biography that does Crawford justice. Not that it was entirely Mooney's fault. Any Crawford
                    biographer is faced with an enormous problem at the very outset. The lack of a large collection of
                    manuscript sources is an insuperable difficulty. Crawford himself was careless about preserving his
                    correspondence, and he rarely made copies of outgoing letters. Furthermore, the effort of his
                    son-in-law, George M. Dudley, to preserve Crawford material was vitiated when the Dudley home burned
                    during the Civil War.

        Still the author might have done more with extant documents, both public and private. Little in the
                    way of important,  new information is revealed. Opportunities to
                    dig deeply into significant events and provide penetrating analyses are repeatedly missed by the
                    author. The controversy over the 
            Florida
           invasion and the events leading to Jackson's discovery of John C.
                    Calhoun's "perfidy" is a case in point. "The story has been told
                    many times before," writes Mooney, "and will not be repeated here" (p.
                    318). Fair enough. But what of Crawford's involvement in the revelation?
                    "The exigencies of politics probably determined the actions of the principals,"
                    Mooney states; "if blame is to be attached, it should be spread among a half dozen or
                    so" (pp. 319-20). So much for the manner and motivation that set the events in motion,
                    although the author in a footnote does remark that there exists "no evidence of direct
                    collusion between Crawford and Martin 
            Van
           Buren in the Jackson-Calhoun matter" (p. 320, note 48). Again, the author is
                    not especially enlightening about the fierce animosity between Crawford and Jackson that developed
                    immediately following the Creek War. He concedes that Crawford's order to renegotiate the
                    Treaty of Fort Jackson may have had something to do with it. But why did Crawford issue the
                    order? Crawford spoke to the Indian chieftains, says Mooney, and believed their arguments
                    just! For a politician of Crawford's skills this explanation hardly seems
                    complete or adequate. Unfortunately, most of the book simply reworks old interpretations or accepts
                    without question rather naive explanations.
        Unlike his subject, the author is very cautious. He hedges about Crawford's debilitating
                    illness that struck him down in 1823. Was it "inflamatory rheumatism," as Crawford
                    himself believed, or bilious fever or erysipelas or a stroke? The reader is free to
                    choose among them. And what finally killed Crawford? The newspapers at the time described
                    it as an "affection of the heart" whatever that means. Mooney is content to leave
                    it at that.
        It is painful to write a negative review about a work whose author has recently died and over which
                    he labored so long and diligently. In fairness it should be said, as a final comment, that the book
                    is useful to scholars in gathering together in one place all that is known—and maybe
                    knowable —about the life of a distinguished politician of the early national period.
        
          University of 
              Illinois, Chicago
             Circle
        
        Robert V. Remini
      
      
      
        
          Travels in the Old South, Selected from Periodicals of the Times. Edited by
                    Eugene L. Schwaab with the collaboration of Jacqueline Bull. Two volumes. (
            Lexington
          : The University Press of 
            Kentucky
          , 1973. Pp. xiii, 579. Illustrations, notes, index. Set, $25.00.)
        According to the editor, this anthology of periodical literature "aims to present to the
                    social historian a representative sampling of original accounts of travel in the South from 1783 to
                    1860 …" (p. xi). This purpose has been achieved with distinction in this two
                    volume work. Editor Schwaab indicates an attempt to achieve a proper balance in the selection of
                    travel accounts for inclusion in this compilation based on geographical, chronological, and other
                    considerations. While these bases might seem unnecessarily rigid, the resulting selection indicates
                    otherwise.
        These travel accounts taken from magazines of the period are divided according to seven chronological
                    periods, starting with the conclusion of the Revolutionary War and terminating with the advent of
                    the Civil War. While certain themes, such as frontier life and agriculture, tend to predominate,
                    many aspects of southern life are discussed. Careful descriptions of rice, tobacco, and sugar cane
                    processing are interspersed with an account of forest fires, of an earthquake, of gold mining and
                    coal mining, of missionaries and itinerant preachers, of manufacturers, of river transportation, and
                    of mineral springs and other health resorts. Some travelers described conditions of travel and
                    travel accommodations so vividly as to give the reader little choice but to identify with the
                    traveler, sharing vicariously in both his excitement and his discomforts.

        The format of the volumes adds not a little to their attractiveness. The pages are double columned,
                    with each left hand page having a very wide left hand margin and each right hand page with a very
                    wide right hand margin. The illustrations (including that used on the cover), taken from the best
                    collections in the country, add immensely to the appearance (and content) of this work. However, it
                    is these very appearances which, on first impression, strike the reviewer as almost incongruous.
                    Professor Thomas D. Clark in the foreward indicates that these travel accounts constitute an
                    "historical resource" and Schwaab in the introduction says that they are selected
                    for the benefit of the "social  historian."
                    Perhaps the historian deserves occasionally to handle embellished resources! Perhaps too,
                    there is a place for this work in the library of the avid book connoisseur which the above writers
                    failed to mention.
        The serious historian might wish for even more editorial aids such as more references to parallel
                    accounts not found in this work. For example, Thomas Chapman's account of a trip through
                    the Upper South (pp. 23-42) was made just about the same time Moses Austin traveled over a part of
                    this same route. A reference to the Austin account would have been useful. While editorial comments
                    are common throughout both volumes and are perhaps all that could be expected in such an extensive
                    anthology, there seems occasionally to be room for more exhaustive research and/or editorial
                    comment. The illustrations are a little frustrating in this respect, indicating neither origin nor
                    identity of what is illustrated, although admittedly the latter is sometimes obvious.
        
          Malone College, Canton, 
              Ohio
            
          
        
        Paton Yoder
      
      
        
          The American Conscience: The Drama of the Lincoln-Douglas Debates. By Saul
                    Sigelschiffer. (
            New York
          : Horizon Press, 1973. Pp. viii, 488. End maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $12.95.)

        Any reader willing to plow through 433 pages of additional Lincoln literature has the right to expect
                    a fragment of something new and/or different. Thus, The American Conscience will
                    be a big disappointment. The book's topical outline is at least easily followed. The
                    initial chapter surveys the debate issues in the context of pre-Civil War history, with specific
                    emphasis upon the 1850s. Rarely is the probing deeper than the textbook level. The second part
                    investigates the two main participants while the third division devotes a chapter to each of the
                    seven debates.

        The concluding essay is a moralistic survey of Lincoln's racial views which sadly emerges as
                    the nineteenth century's "irrepressible conflict" in twentieth century
                    garb. Despite the dust jacket's claim to the contrary, Abraham Lincoln still appears as the
                    "Christ-like figure," and Stephen A. Douglas' touted
                    "rehabilitation" hardly goes beyond the work of George F. Milton. The
                    author's conclusions depend solely upon his unique interpretation of specific words in
                    Lincoln's writings,  and although he accuses others of
                    speculation, he also dabbles too deeply into history's "ifs."
        The faults involved in research and writing are staggering. The historian will be horrified with the
                    repeated documentary omission for huge blocks of substantive fact. Equally surprising is an almost
                    total reliance upon published documents and older secondary accounts. Neither the bibliography nor
                    the footnotes indicate any utilization of manuscript collections or newspaper files while attempting
                    to add some new facet to an already well known saga.

        The bibliography contains a few recent works, but rarely do these appear in the footnotes. Most
                    heavily used books were published before 1950. Surely the writings of Richard Heckman, Edwin Corwin,
                    Carl Swisher, Philip Klein, and Frank Hodder would add valuable insight into the author's
                    understanding of the debate topics. Although Don Fehrenbacher's Prelude to
                        Greatness is included in the bibliography, Sigelschiffer's chapters on the House
                    Divided speech and the 
            Freeport
           debate demonstrate neither usage nor understanding of this significant work. The 
            Charleston

           debate discussion ignores Charles Coleman's definitive study of that topic in
                    his Abraham Lincoln and 
              Coles County

            . The author claims to have traveled to the debate sites and acknowledges the
                    help of some local historians, but the invaluable aid which could have been provided locally by Dr.
                    Coleman or Dr. Glenn Seymour was apparently never tapped. For unexplained reasons valuable articles
                    in the Journal of the 
              Illinois
             State Historical Society were apparently never consulted.

        In light of these major criticisms the book's other faults, including occasional lapses into
                    the first person and the use of archaic footnoting terms supra and op. cit., pale by comparison. As a documentary volume, despite its far too extensive
                    quoting, this book cannot replace Paul Angle's more complete edition of the debates; and as
                    an interpretive study the research is too shallow to add greater depth to an already extensive body
                    of historical knowledge. While obviously there still are openings in the field of Lincoln lore, the
                    present study will, unfortunately, not fill any gaping holes. It will be a disappointment to the
                    professional historian as well as to the Lincoln buff.
        
          Eastern 
              Illinois
             University, 
              Charleston
            
          
        
        E. Duane Elbert
      
      
      
        
          Americanizing the American Indians: Writings by the "Friends of the
                        Indian," 1880-1900. Edited by Francis Paul Prucha. (
            Cambridge
          , Mass.: 
            Harvard
           University Press, 1973. Pp. vii, 358. Bibliographical note, index. $12.50.)
        Marquette University Professor Francis Paul Prucha has added to the growing body of information on
                    Indian assimilation by linking together some forty primary sources (reports, speeches, articles,
                    etc.) penned by the "friends of the Indians" for the years 1880 to 1900. Quite
                    deliberately Prucha has qualified "friends" with quotes. His card stacked
                    collection attempts to prove that the policies advocated, and in part effected, by these well
                    intentioned white reformers—largely WASP educators, government officials, and authors,
                    including people such as Henry L. Dawes, Lyman Abbott, Carl Schurz, and Thomas J.
                    Morgan—proved "to be a disaster for the Indians, and therefore for the
                    nation" (p. 10).
        Prucha quite correctly flays the aggressive ethnocentrism of Gilded Age reformers; yet for all their
                    purblind cultural egoism these Americans genuinely sought to "elevate the Indian."
                    While it now seems disgusting that they wanted to turn him in a cultural sense into a white man, it
                    should never be forgotten that their blunderous assumptions were predicated on ultimate sociolegal
                    equality for the shattered native.
        Prucha notes this but fails to emphasize how many other citizens really believed "the only
                    good Indian is a dead Indian." How did Buffalo Bill and the diverse commercial groups
                    (probably beginning with the Mountain Man and extending to today's TV writers looking for a
                    "good show") link the Indian with the dominate culture? Colonel Cody,
                    for example, armed his Indian actors with guns and urged them to "yell like
                    hell—look as murderous as you can." In marked contrast the
                    "friends" gave them tools and books and counselled the Indians to prepare
                    themselves for inescapable absorption into the white world. Instead of making money on the Indian,
                    they raised and expended vast sums to protect and advance him along the path of the white man. In
                    fact, the "putting out system" found the "friends" enjoining
                    their fellow whites to "bring an Indian youth into your home."
        
        Prucha's selections painfully confirm that the reformers' elementary assumptions
                    were naive, ignorant, and riddled with racism, but to saddle them with the major burden of guilt for
                    breaking "down the [Indians'] heritage and cultural pride" (p. 10), is
                    anachronistic. Before most of these reformers even had been born, the cruel cutting edge of the
                    frontier had eroded much of the indigenes' accustomed way of life. Almost from the initial
                    red-white contacts in the sixteenth century, aboriginal peoples found themselves irresistably
                    attracted to the invader's power, be it his gun, his bottle, or his iron pot. Indeed,
                    anthropologists have now speculated that well before the founding of Jamestown, European imported
                    diseases had laid waste millions of North American Indians. Certainly Indian contemporaries of the
                    "friends," warrior leaders such as Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull, cursed saloons
                    and stores with far greater frequency than they ever did schoolhouses.

        For readers desiring source material to lay bare the cultural myopia of Victorian America, here is a
                    well edited, heavily weighted instrument. On the other hand, readers seeking a more balanced account
                    of the complex intercultural tragedy produced by the red-white cultural collision—already
                    fixed on its disastrous course by 1860—should look elsewhere. An excellent place to begin
                    is Francis Paul Prucha's classic Broadax and Bayonet.
        
        
          San Jose State University, San Jose, Calif.
        
        Ted C. Hinckley
      
      
        
          Taylor University: The First 125 Years. By William C. Ringenberg. (Grand Rapids:
                    William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1973. Pp. 184. End papers, notes, illustrations, figures,
                    index. $5.95.)
        When Oliver Cromwell sat for a portrait and the artist was disposed to be overly solicitous about
                    omitting certain facial blemishes, the tough old 
            Puritan
           protested that he wanted to be painted "warts and all." The author of
                    this book about Taylor University's century and a quarter history has not glossed over the
                    passages of crisis and dissension in telling the story. He has, however, written in an obvious
                    spirit of deep affection for the school and profound respect for its uniquely Christian mission in
                    higher education.
        
        The book is one of a genre that normally has slight readership outside the constituency of the
                    college whose history is recited, and it is unlikely that this book will be of much wider interest.
                    The author admits that the book is a "house organ" (p. 7). But he has prepared a
                    useful and needed presentation of the story; despite the long career of the college, previously only
                    occasional historical sketches had appeared. He has given a balanced account bringing together in a
                    systematic and readable way the changes and progressions in administration (too often given
                    preponderant attention in such works) with the changing academic emphases, relations to the
                    supporters of the college, and even (chapter 7) the sports program of the school. Chapter 6 is
                    titled alliteratively "Religion, Recitations, and Recreation." Ringenberg sets the
                    whole account meaningfully in the broader contexts of American educational and religious history.
                    For example, the date of founding (1846) is depicted in terms of its unusual excitement in a
                    westward moving America (p. 20).
        Taylor University began in 1846 as the Fort 
            Wayne
           Female College under auspices of the Methodist Episcopal church. For Methodists
                    generally this was the period of transition from an earlier anti-intellectual attitude that deplored
                    the dangers of "book learning" for ministers. There were those who opposed higher
                    education for women as a disturbance of "God's order" (p. 15) and as
                    dangerous to the health of frail females; but in the education of women the Methodists pioneered. In
                    1855 merger with a men's school produced Fort 
            Wayne
           College. In 1890 the school was moved to Upland and named after Bishop William Taylor,
                    a dynamic and controversial (pp. 68 ff.) missionary leader; his strong involvement in the Holiness
                    movement is reflected in the school's continuing pietistic emphasis. Taylor University
                    remained affiliated with the Methodist Episopal church until 1922. North Central accreditation was
                    gained in 1947 (p. 145).

        Moral and religious crusade has been the pattern of life at Taylor. Conduct was strictly regulated
                    (p. 55 and passim). In the early twentieth century, Taylor was a "hotbed
                    of Prohibitionist activity" (p. 117), with students vying in producing orations against the
                    evil of alcohol. In the twenties William Jennings Bryan's crusade against evolution found
                         ardent support there. Frequent and highly emotional
                    protracted revival meetings interspersed academic concerns; spiritual emphasis has undergone less
                    attrition than at most denominational schools.
        Teachers in the schools of most denominations will find nostalgic notes in the account of low
                    salaries (p. 34), heavy teaching loads (p. 124), scant time for research and writing (p. 151),
                    strict regulation of conduct in contrast to permissiveness elsewhere. The target audience will
                    appreciate its forthright emphasis both on the academic concerns and the special pietistic values of
                    the school.
        
          Indiana Central College, 
              Indianapolis
            
          
        
        Roland Nelson
      
      
        
          The Booker T. Washington Papers. Volume 3, 1889-95. Edited by
                    Louis R. Harlan; assistant editors, Stuart B. Kaufman and Raymond W. Smock. (
            Urbana
          : University of 
            Illinois
           Press, 1974. Pp. xxx, 618. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $17.50.)
        The third volume of Booker T. Washington's papers might well be subtitled "The Lull
                    Before the Storm," since it covers the six years immediately before the black
                    educator's emergence on the national scene as a white sponsored spokesman for black
                    aspirations and as a political manipulator of some significance within the Afro-American community.
                    Harlan and his associates have issued a model volume of collected papers to accompany the previous
                    two volumes published last year. The present volume contains a great many letters written to 
            Washington
           as well as those from his pen, along with copies of speeches delivered by him to
                    various audiences and informal homilies which the college president was fond of relating to his
                    Tuskegee students on Sunday evenings. The famous speech at the 
            Atlanta
           Exposition completes the entries in the main body of the book along with a draft
                    version which differs in some form from the final edition of the brief speech. As in the earlier
                    volumes in the series, each letter, speech, newspaper report, etc., is annotated with footnotes
                    identifying persons mentioned in the body of the entry and/or the context of the subject matter
                    discussed. The annotations are explanatory without becoming narratives in themselves.
        
        
          
            Washington
          's family life correspondence occupies some space in the volume, especially
                    that dealing with the educator's marriage to Tuskegee's dean of women, Margaret
                    James Murray, following the untimely death of Olivia Davidson 
            Washington
          . Letters to and from his children are presented as well as correspondence indicating 
            Washington
          's problems in finding a suitable housekeeper to take care of his brood before
                    his remarriage. Murray's letters to 
            Washington
           are filled with complaints on the part of the former who appears to have been a strong
                    willed person unwilling to accept a subordinate position in any relationship. No letters from 
            Washington
           to Murray dated during this period are included, but references to them in the text of
                    Murray's correspondence indicates that they were merely brief notes.
        As the president of a growing black college gaining in significance during the early 1890s, 
            Washington
           was in considerable demand as a public speaker before northern and southern audiences,
                    and he never failed to capitalize on his appearances by making either direct or indirect appeals for
                    funds. The volume includes a great many letters to and from Tuskegee's white benefactors,
                    with 
            Washington
          's end of the correspondence couched in the somewhat restrained, dignified,
                    subservient language evidently most conducive to eliciting money from philanthropists. Some letters
                    deal with professional fund raisers employed by Tuskegee and the frustration 
            Washington
           suffered in endeavoring to find the, right person for this perennially all important
                    academic effort.
        Despite 
            Washington
          's extensive absences from the college, his correspondence reveals that he was
                    very much in charge of Tuskegee affairs and in fact appears to have had considerable difficulty in
                    delegating authority. He was extremely attentive to every detail of the college's operation
                    and was by no means reluctant bluntly to chastise his faculty and staff for their real or alleged
                    shortcomings. By virtue of the evidence in this volume Tuskegee must have been a terribly
                    uncomfortable place of employment for anyone even remotely resembling a free spirit.
        Various items in the correspondence include letters to and from Samuel Chapman Armstrong, the founder
                    of Hampton Institute and a definite father figure to 
            Washington

          . Armstrong had a tremendous influence on the industrial education bent of the black
                    educator. This influence is especially  marked in 
            Washington
          's speeches and remarks at the various educational institutes held at Hampton
                    and Tuskegee during these years and recorded in the book.
        
          Camden County College, Blackwood, N. J.
        
        
          
            Norman
           Lederer
      
      
        
          Ten Men of 
              Minnesota
             and American Foreign Policy, 1898-1968. By Barbara Stuhler. 
            Minnesota
           Historical Society Public Affairs Center Publications. Edited by
                    Russell W. Fridley; managing editor, June Drenning Holmquist. (
            St. Paul
          : 
            Minnesota
           Historical Society, 1973. Pp. xii, 263. Illustrations, reference notes, index.
                    $8.50.)
        To write a book about individuals from a given state of the Union who have been important in the
                    making of American foreign policy is perhaps a new approach to the history of the 
            United States
          , but it has to be said that in the case of 
            Minnesota

           the effort has been successful. Many of that state's leaders have excelled in
                    the field of foreign affairs. Half the subjects of Ten Men of 
              Minnesota
            
           have died, one of them many years ago. The others are still quite active in
                    writing or speaking on foreign affairs, and one of them is yet in the 
            United States
           Senate. Cushman K. Davis died shortly after the turn of the century, but not before he
                    had served on the Senate foreign relations committee and been a peace commissioner at 
            Paris
           in 1898 and stood with his fellow commissioner Whitelaw Reid in favor of taking all of
                    the Philippine Islands. Charles A. Lindbergh, Sr., was a maverick congressman and lawyer, an
                    isolationist. Harold Knutson and Henrik Shipstead served respectively in the House and Senate and
                    championed isolationism through thick and thin. Frank B. Kellogg was a senator, secretary of state
                    in the latter 1920s, and author of the Kellogg Pact for which he received the Nobel peace prize in
                    1930, the very year another Minnesotan, Sinclair Lewis, received the prize for literature. Joseph H.
                    Ball rose like a comet to become senator during the Second World War and an outstanding
                    internationalist, after which his career fell like a stone; and presently he lives on a farm in the
                    Blue Ridge Mountains of 
            Virginia

          , far from the political scenes of his youth. Harold E. Stassen likewise rose quickly to
                    prominence, and then his career was overcome by what generally has been agreed to have been too much
                    ambition; in his last effort for the presidency he received  two
                    votes at the Republican national convention. Congressman Walter E. Judd is now out of Congress and
                    still speaking for Chiang Kai-shek. Senators Hubert H. Humphrey and Eugene J. McCarthy have recently
                    exchanged retirements, with McCarthy out and Humphrey in, but the presidential prospects of both of
                    these able Minnesotans have been shattered, if for different reasons.
        How does one add up the record in 
            Minnesota
          ? It is of course a series of tales of ambition, and such tales are always
                    interesting and usually precautionary. None led its subject to the top national political prize.
                    Some of the tales show individuals of great national promise, but the careers became mortgaged to
                    circumstances, and luck failed. Davis, Knutson, and Shipstead probably were second or third raters.
                    Lindbergh was a fascinating loner, just like his more famous son. Kellogg's career brought
                    high office perhaps too late in life, and in any event he lacked political judgment. Ball and Judd
                    are able apostles but true believers, unable to waver when wavering is called for. Stassen had
                    enormous talents but threw them to the winds. Eugene McCarthy proved himself too unstable for the
                    American people to take him by the hand on anything more than a short walk. There remains Humphrey,
                    about whom every reader will have opinions, and perhaps regrets.
        The author has managed nicely to surround her subjects with the events of their times; she has read
                    wisely and well. She writes clearly. Her judgments are thoughtful without being sententious or
                    didactic and are always fair.
        
          Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          
        
        Robert H. Ferrell
      
      
        
          
            
              Wisconsin
            : A State for All Seasons. Edited by Jill Dean and Susan Smith; William T.
                    Pope, designer. (
            Madison
          : 
            Wisconsin
           Tales and Trails, Incorporated, 1972. Pp. 175. Illustrations. $15.00.)
        
          Portrait of the Past: A Photographic Journey Through 
              Wisconsin
            . By Howard Mead, Jill Dean, and Susan Smith; William T. Pope, designer. (
            Madison
          : 
            Wisconsin
           Tales and Trails, Incorporated, 1971. Pp. 176. Illustrations. $12.50.)
        Nostalgia is the theme and 
            Wisconsin
          's uniqueness the goal in the photographic collections 
            
              Wisconsin
            : A State for All Seasons and Portrait of the Past: A Photographic
                        Journey  Through 
              Wisconsin

            . The former wishes to counteract Wisconsinites who "take their
                    state's living history, rich ethnic mix, progressive political tradition, handsome
                    landscape and distinct seasons pretty much for granted" (p. 3). The second suggests that
                    "each photograph we have selected will contribute to an understanding of the past and will
                    lend a new perspective to the present" (p. 3). A State for All Seasons
                    exploits excellent color and revealing modern black and white prints in a four season travelogue of 
            Wisconsin
          's heritage and contemporary personality. Portrait of the
                    Past emphasizes the collective Wisconsinite from the 1850s to World War I.
        Each book expresses feeling for 
            Wisconsin
           yet lacks the uniqueness of 
            Wisconsin
           both wish to capture. A State for All Seasons richly portrays 
            Wisconsin

          's famous and lesser known attributes. One is awed by the photographic
                    professionalism and by its selection but feels the book presents objects and events with little
                    personality. The Indians (p. 48) reflect a Chamber of Commerce brochure rather than their heritage
                    to the state. Little more than Christmas (pp. 154-56) and Rosemaling ("the art of painting
                    roses") involve the rich ethnic mix. One thus feels uncertain if A State for
                        All Seasons will reform Wisconsinites from taking their state for granted.
        
          Portrait of the Past also fails in representing 
            Wisconsin
           as unique. Two hundred ten balanced photographs reflect all aspects of man's
                    endeavor in work, leisure, agriculture, city life, transportation, and even lumber jacking. Yet the
                    reader discovers a 
            Wisconsin
           "Everyman," viewing life in the collective. Photographic scenes are
                    not unique in themselves nor do they contribute that quality to 
            Wisconsin
          . Portrait of the Past ignores problems or living conditions which
                    make Indian culture different from white and glides past the world of the immigrant whose
                    adjustments also added character to 
            Wisconsin
          . Thus while each photograph can provide the reader "with a link, however
                    tenuous, to a vanished moment" (p. 3), one misses that link to the uniqueness of the 
            Wisconsin
           experience.
        
          A State for All Seasons successfully describes a geographical area worthy of
                    exploration, and Portrait of the Past portrays 
            Wisconsin
           life between the 1870s and 1900s equally well. Neither book contributes measurably to 
            Wisconsin
          's  historical perspective. Nostalgia
                    replaces an historical causal relationship and questioning. For a fuller understanding of 
            Wisconsin
          , one also should read 
            
              Wisconsin
             Death Trip by Michael Lesy, who gives direction, theme, and cause to an area
                    and era in photographic media. Both works are to be commended in their use of the photograph to
                    preserve a state's natural features and her people. Their weaknesses should not prevent
                    others from modeling the extensive use of photographs in interpreting history. These works should
                    offer subject guidance to the photographer, should instill in the archivist the desire to collect,
                    preserve, and publicize, and should cause the historian to use photographs in interpreting, not
                    embellishing, their works.
        
          Indiana State Library, 
              Indianapolis
            
          
        
        John J. Newman
      
      
        
          
            
              Chicago
            , 1930-70: Building, Planning, and Urban Technology. By Carl W. Condit. (
            Chicago
          : The University of 
            Chicago
           Press, 1974. Pp. xvi, 351. Illustrations, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $12.50.)
        Originally this work was to have been the concluding part of a single volume on 
            Chicago
          's urban development since 1910. Convinced that such a work would be
                    unmanageable in size and prohibitive in cost, the Depression, that "turning point for the
                    American City—from expansion, confidence, and civic resurgence to economic and cultural
                    decline" (p. xv), was chosen as the dividing line. While the author doubted that the
                    continuity of the text would be "adversely" (p. xv) affected, in fact, it is.
                    Daniel C. Burnham's famous plan of 
            Chicago
          , 1909, serves throughout this volume as the author's reference point, yet
                    nowhere is even the barest sketch of that seminal proposal provided. A short introductory chapter
                    giving background on this and other matters would easily have remedied a grave defect.

        As it is, the first chapter on the planning of the Century of Progress Exposition establishes the
                    theme for all that follows. The Exposition of 1933, a "rainbow city stretched along the
                    blue and shining lake," was architecturally innovative in its inexpensive and rapid
                    construction, use of materials, lighting, and bold use of color. Withal such a financial success
                    that it was repeated in 1934, the Exposition was a  mordant
                    contrast to the "real city, the beaten, hungry impotent 
            Chicago
           behind it" (p. 7).
        In just this way the triumphs of architecture which rose in the core city, fashioned largely by the 
            Chicago
           based firms of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill; Perkins and Will; Harry Weese and
                    Associates; and the great Mies van der Rohe firms, invariably come at the cost of the larger
                    interests of the city. It was as if a family lavished its attention on the appointments of the
                    visitor's parlor and let the rest of the house fall down. Let the 
            Hancock
           Center serve as an example: a marvel of the architect's art, this
                    "braced vertical tubular cantilever"—or "optimum
                    column-diagonal truss tube" (p. 107)—is an ecological disaster; its site a
                    mistake, its size grossly out of scale, its form inharmonious with its neighbors. The beneficiary of
                    "unprincipled zoning" (p. 112) through which the city council granted privileges
                    whenever the investors saw an opportunity to expand profits, its real significance emerged with the
                    competition in corporate advertising it announced and the monstrous Sears Tower it evoked.
        If the core city received beautiful, if often hostile, triumphs, the rest of 
            Chicago

           got huge urban renewal projects with ugly buildings of inhuman proportions, which,
                    without exception, meant a net loss of poor and middle income housing units. The consequences of the
                    Richard Daley years can be read in the census figures. City population has dropped in the last two
                    censuses to a point below that of 1930. Why? Locally, according to Professor Condit, it
                    was the alert philistinism shared by the mayor and avaricious business interests. On the national
                    scene, urban blight and depopulation is due to the military establishment, "aided by its
                    industrial allies, the political directorate of the federal government, and Congress
                    …" (p. 280). The solution? It is clear that the author intends the
                    starkest pessimism, for only "a radical program of physical and moral reconstruction
                    initiated by the people" (p. 281) will do. This old "change of heart"
                    platform is the weakest and least convincing of the reformer's nostrums. Instructive here
                    is the experience of Vinton W. Bacon, a sanitary engineer called in by Daley in 1963 to clear up the
                    job selling, bribery, kickbacks, altering of Civil Service examination scores, and leasing deals
                    extant in the Sanitary District. So successful was Bacon that he attracted the testimonial  of a dynamite bomb in 1966, which he survived, only to be
                    illegally dismissed by the trustees in a secret meeting- in January, 1970.
        This work is emphatically not a mere liberal jeremiad, however. It is a sober and sometimes technical
                    discussion of land use, schools and universities, highways, railroads, water and waterways, and
                    airports, as well as architecture. Condit, a professor of history, urban affairs, and art history at
                    Northwestern University, has included over one hundred necessary photographs and appended twenty-one
                    pages of tables. Alas, the new Comprehensive Plan of 
            Chicago
          , 1966, is "eyewash" (p. 277). No one says that now about
                    Burnham's effort.
        
          Marian College, 
              Indianapolis
            
          
        
        William J. Doherty
      
    
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
  
