
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 33, Issue 1, pages 1-115. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:33+issue:1+year:1937&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Insurgent Democrats of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     in 18541
            
            MILDRED C. STOLER
            
            Before the actual beginning of debate on the 
                        Nebraska
                     measure of 1854, the "Appeal of the Independent Democrats" was given
                    to the public. It was the the work of Senator Salmon P. Chase. It was signed by him, Senator Charles
                    Sumner and four members of the House.2 The "Appeal" was widely
                    published, and excerpts from it appeared in a vast number of newspapers. By the time the
                            
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act became a law in May, a great opposition to the abrogation
                    of the anti-slavery restriction of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise had developed. Much of this was certainly due to the effectiveness of the
                    "Appeal", which included the following passages well calculated to arouse deep
                    hostility to the measure championed by Douglas: 
                        We arraign this bill as a gross violation of a sacred pledge; as a criminal betrayal of
                            precious rights; as part and parcel of an atrocious plot to exclude from a vast unoccupied
                            region immigrants from the old world, and free laborers from our own States, and convert it
                            into a dreary region of despotism, inhabited by masters and slaves.
                        Take your maps fellow citizens, we entreat you and see what country it is which this bill,
                            gratuitously, proposes to open to slavery.
                        We appeal to the people. We warn you that the dearest interests of freedom and the Union are
                            in imminent peril. Demagogues may tell you that the Union can be maintained only by
                            submitting to the demands of slavery. We tell you that the safety of the Union can only be
                            insured by the full recognition of the just claims of freedom and man. The Union was formed
                            to establish justice, and secure the blessings of liberty. When it fails to accomplish these
                            ends, it will be worthless; and when it becomes worthless, it cannot long endure.
                    
            
            
               
                  1 This paper was read before one of the sessions of the annual Indiana
                        History Conference, at the Hotel Lincoln in 
                            Indianapolis
                         on December 11, 1937.
               
                  2
                        Cong. Globe, 88 Cong., 1 Sess. (185–854). 28–82. Besides
                        the Senators mentioned, the signers were: Representatives Joshua R. Giddings (
                            Ohio
                        ), Edward Wade (
                            Ohio
                        ), Gerritt Smith (
                            New York
                        ), and Alexander DeWitt (Mass.).
            
            
            Practical suggestions for giving direction and purpose to the inevitable protest against the bill
                    were offered. The signers promised to resist by speech and vote, but they asked for the support of
                    Christians and Christian ministers who believed in the brotherhood of men. Their protests should
                    take the form of letters, memorials, petitions, resolutions in public meetings and legislatures, and
                    editorials. If, in spite of their efforts, failure resulted, the signers declared that they would
                    return to their constituencies, "erect anew the standard of freedom, and call on the people
                    to come to the rescue of the country from the domination of slavery. We will not despair; for the
                    cause of human freedom is the cause of God."3
            
            In the note appended to the "Appeal" appeared the politician's sharp
                    thrusts. Having appealed as if interested only in idealism and humanitarianism, in Christian
                    principles and the welfare of the nation, they now asked: "Will the people permit their
                    dearest interests to be thus made the mere hazards of a presidential game, and destroyed by false
                    facts and false inferences?"4
            
            The 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Bill passed the Senate in the early morning of March 4, after an
                    all-night debate. The vote was 37 to 14. Four regular Democrats and Chase, an Independent Democrat,
                    voted against it. The four were Henry Dodge and Isaac P. Walker of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Charles T. James of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , and Hannibal Hamlin of 
                        Maine
                    . The last named became a prominent Republican and the first Vice-President elected by
                    that party. Fourteen Democrats from the free, states remained faithful to the Administration
                    leaders. Among them were the two 
                        Illinois
                     Senators, Douglas and James P. Shields, and John Pettit of Indiana. The other Indiana
                    Senator, Jesse D. Bright, did not vote.
            The final vote in the House was 113 to 100. The northern Democrats divided almost
                    evenly—44 to 43. At least three of the five Democrats from the free states who did not
                    vote were opposed to the bill. 
                        Illinois
                     was represented by five Democrats and four Whigs. Two of the Democrats opposed the
                    bill, but 
                  
                     3 Chase, Sumner, Giddings, Wade and Gerritt Smith certainly kept their
                            pledge to resist the bill by speech and vote. To their aid came a goodly number of
                            Democrats. Some participated in the debates; more supported them with their votes. Of the
                            Democrats from 
                                Illinois
                             and Indiana, only one spoke against the Bill. That one was Representative
                            Daniel Mace of 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. Whether the classes opposed to the measure were influenced by the
                            suggestions in the "Appeal" in regard to the methods to be used or not,
                            they certainly did not omit any of the proposed methods in the fight that followed.
                  
                     4 For a copy of the "Appeal" with the appended note,
                            see Cong. Globs, 33 Cong., 1 Sess., 28–82.
               
                     only one, John Wentworth of 
                        Chicago
                    , voted. William H. Bissell was too ill to be present, but he offered to come if his
                    vote would defeat the bill. The Indiana delegation of ten Democrats and one Whig contained three anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats. Daniel Mace and Andrew J. Harlan voted, but the third, Ebenezer M.
                    Chamberlain, was detained at home by illness in the (family. All of the Whigs from both states voted
                        nay.5 Thus the defection in the Democratic ranks was
                    considerable, for half of the Democratic congressmen from the free states refused to obey the
                    dictation of the party leaders.
            While the Senate Chamber was resounding to the sonorous phrases of Sumner and the logical arguments
                    of Chase, great excitement prevailed throughout the North. During the debates in Congress speakers
                    often referred to the general agitation which rivaled that of 184–0. Then the crisis had
                    been bridged by a compromise which both party platforms had accepted in 1852. As Chase remarked,
                    however, the peace of 1852 had turned into the storm of 1854.6 Reference was
                    made to the "seething agitation" and to the "wild spirit of
                    discord" which was "poisoning the air."7 Isaac P.
                    Walker, Democratic Senator from 
                        Wisconsin
                    , thought it "most unfortunate that it [
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Bill]
                    has ever been introduced." He warned the party of the consequences: 
                        But if this bill passes, I, for one, expect to see no quiet in Congress… I believe
                            agitation will go on, and I believe that the example set by some of the States, my own among
                            the rest, of instructing their Senators, will be followed up until there will be a
                            prohibition of slavery wherever it can be enacted. I shall not promote this agitation, but
                            do all I can to prevent it; and when it shall come, as come I fear it must, no one will
                            deplore it more than I; but at the same time you will have deprived me of the power to deny
                            that the agitation began with you….8
                  
                    
            
            Reuben E. Fenton, Representative from 
                        New York
                    , also a Democrat, added his admonition: 
                        Hitherto we have acted on the defensive; but let me tell gentlemen, a sentiment exists at the
                            North, call it what you will, philanthropic or fanatical, which will justify itself by this
                            want of good faith in taking 
                        
                           5 George Bliss, of 
                                        Ohio
                                    , was also absent, but he had published his anti-
                                        Nebraska
                                     speech, which his health did not permit him to deliver, in the Conyressional Globe (Appendix).
                        
                           6
                                    Cong. Globe, 33 Cong., 1 Sees., Appendix, 134.
                        
                           7
                                    Ibid., 602.
                        
                           8
                                    Ibid., 29–1.
                     
                             an aggressive attitude; and if it do not carry a war into
                            the very camp of Africa, will enter the outposts, and clear what it conceives to be the
                            taint of slavery from the territorial soil, which, by the spirit and genius of our
                            institutions, and the great base of the superstructure—the inalienable rights of
                            men—should be devoted to freedom's uses.9
                  
                    
            
            The repercussions from the excitement began to be felt in Congress very early. Less than a week10 after the publication of the "Appeal of the Independent
                    Democrats" resolutions of protest from the 
                        Rhode Island
                     legislature were presented to the Senate. After February 9, petitions, memorials, and
                    remonstrances poured in almost daily. These were signed sometimes by single individuals; usually by
                    large groups of citizens; a few were signed by women alone as the one by Harriet Beecher Stowe and
                    eleven hundred women of Andover, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . One was sent by several thousand working men of 
                        New York City
                    . Others came from the students of 
                        Hamilton
                     College, in 
                        New York
                    , the officers of Yale College, the Society of Friends, the Free-Will Baptists, and from
                    clergymen of all denominations. One hundred fifty clergymen of one 
                        Massachusetts county
                     sent Congress a memorial. Some days later there appeared a memorial signed by three
                    thousand fifty 
                        New England
                     clergymen. They opposed the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as a great moral wrong, as a breach of faith which was subversive of
                    confidence in all national contracts, as dangerous to peace and to the Union, and as an act exposing
                    the country to the righteous judgments of God. Senator Douglas demanded that it be read and then
                    delivered a fiery invective against it and the signers. Early in May, twenty-five ministers of 
                        Chicago
                     sent a petition to Douglas to be presented in the Senate, and a little later it was
                    followed by one signed by five hundred four clergymen of the northwestern states. The proceedings of
                    many of the mass meetings, which were being held in all parts of the free states, were presented in
                    Congress. The legislatures of 
                  New York, Massachusetts, Maine
               , and 
                        Connecticut
                    , following the example of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , sent resolutions opposing the passage of the bill.11 The 
                        Illinois
                     legislature, however, passed pro-
                        Nebraska
                     resolutions. The legislature of Indiana was not in session.
            The mail of Congressmen must have included many letters 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid.. 167.
                  
                     10 January 80, 1854.
                  
                     11
                            Cong. Globe. 88 Cong:., 1 Sess. These Resolutions may be found by
                            consulting the "Indexquot;.
               
                     from their constituents during those weeks. Three of the letters
                    received by William H. English, from a district of southern Indiana, have been preserved. On
                    February 8 John B. Norman, editor of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Ledger, a Democratic paper, wrote him in frank criticism of the course of Douglas:
                        
                        It seems to me the 
                                Nebraska
                             bill is a very ill-advised scheme and ought not to have been introduced. I do
                            not think the South asks the annulment of the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, or thant [sic] it will thank Douglas for
                            introducing his proviso to that effect. Of course if one compromise is
                            annulled another can be, and, the North having the power, possibly may be,
                            in some particulars, before many years. It is certainly new to many that the Compromise of
                            1850 was intended as an annulment of that of 1820. Certainly no such avowal was made at the
                            time that Compromise was pending. The indecent haste of Douglas in attempting to force this
                            bill through the Senate without debate, and the various amendments he has at different times
                            proposed, shows [sic] that he himself doubts its propriety or its
                            popularity. His wholesale denunciation of the opponents of the bill as
                            ‘abolitionists’ and ‘nigger’ sympathizers will
                            avail him but little. People are not to be frightened from their propriety by such epithets
                            now-a-days, whatever may have been their effect a few years since…,12
                  
                    
            
            J. B. A. Archer had sampled the opinion of English's district and sent him a friendly
                    warning: 
                        Having been recently in the lower part of your District, & ascertained as far as
                            practicable the sentiments of the leading ones in other sections on the subject of Douglas
                            Nebraska bill, I have concluded to ‘drop you a line’—which
                            I do confidently. Knowing as I do your willingness & anxiety to reflect the
                            sentiments of your constituency in all matters in which they are directly interested.
                        In a word, then, the Douglas bill, (as it is understood out West here,) is exciting no little
                            interest. The popular voice is strong against any & every measure having for its
                            object the repeal of the ‘
                                Missouri
                             Compromise’. While all seem perfectly willing to abide in good faith
                            by the acts of 1850, & give the South all of its benefits, no one is willing to
                            [have] an additional foot of slave Territory to come into the Union. Personally I have not
                            the remotest idea that any part of the new Territory aluded [sic] to would
                            ever become slave states even were the restrictions of the 1820 act
                            withdrawn. But the people will not view it in that light.
                        I will say that (from present indications) should you vote for the measure in its present
                            form, it will be used as a powerful weapon against you in the approaching or any future
                            canvass. Nothing will work so readily & profoundly, you know, on the minds of the
                            mass of the people 
                        
                           12 William H. English Collection in the William Henry Smith
                                    Memorial Library, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , MSS.
                     
                             as a real or imagined effort to restrict the area of
                                freedom….13
                  
                    
            
            These letters indicate that Indiana, in common with the remainder of the North, was considerably
                    concerned with the 
                        Nebraska
                     question. As early as January 13 editors took cognizance of the possible effect of the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill on the extension of slavery.14 Before long editorials appeared
                    almost daily in which the changes were rung on the arguments set forth by the "Appealquot;.
                    This topic vied for space with such previously important subjects as railroads and the "
                        Maine
                     Law" movement.15
            
            A number of Democratic editors in both Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     opposed the opening of formerly free territory to slavery. In Indiana five of the
                    leading Democratic papers were anti-
                        Nebraska
                    . In the southern part of the state Michael C. Garber reached thousands through the
                    columns of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier. This paper claimed to have five or six thousand readers "the
                    largest list of daily subscribers, in proportion to population, of any paper in any of the western
                        cities."16 Garber had been read out of the party by Jesse D.
                    Bright, autocrat of Indiana politics, in 1851, but he still claimed to be a Democrat, though a very
                    independent one, censuring the Bright faction most freely. He believed that slavery could only exist
                    where it was expressly established by law. For this reason, he said, he had won the enmity of
                        Bright.17 In May, 1854 he warned the Democratic party that if it continued
                    to follow "strange gods" another such scourging as those of 1840 and 1848 would be
                    necessary to bring it "back into the paths" marked out by Jefferson and
                        Jackson.18 The 
                        Princeton
                    
                    Democratic Clarion denounced the bill as a violation of a sacred compact.19 As we have already seen from his letter to English, 
                        Norman
                     of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Ledger was at first opposed to the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, but his opposition soon grew lukewarm and he finally fell in line with the
                    Administration 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., Feb. 28, 1854. A third constituent enclosed an anti-
                                Nebraska
                             petition signed by neighbors of English who lived in 
                                Lexington
                             (
                                Scott County
                            , Indiana), adding his own emphatic protest, which he felt would be echoed by
                            forty-nine fiftieths of the people. J. S. Maughlin to English, 
                                Lexington
                            , n.d., English Collection.
                  
                     14
                            Indiana State Sentinel (daily); 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (
                                Springfield
                            , daily).
                  
                     15 The people of 
                                Maine
                             were experimenting with legal prohibition. People in other states who wished to
                            substitute law for moral suasion in relation to the problem of intemperance were often
                            referred to as "
                                Maine
                             Law" advocates.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Madison
                             Courier (daily), Nov. 1, 19, 1853.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., Nov. 2, 1854.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., May 8, 1864.
                  
                     19 Logan Esarey. A History of Indiana, II, 637, note
                            16. This paper did not become an insurgent. Indiana State Journal
                            (weekly), July 1, 1854.
               
                     papers which were led by William J. Brown of the Indiana State Sentinel.20
            
            In the northern part of the state the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat and the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier, both important Democratic papers, were strongly anti-
                        Nebraska
                    . R. Lowry, editor of the former, regarded the reopening of the slavery question as
                    destructive of the good will between the sections and as tending inevitably to the overthrow of the
                        Democracy.21 William R. Ellis of the Courier also waged an
                    editorial campaign against the Douglas bill.
            At the capital, the powerful pen of Jacob P. Chapman, veteran newspaper man and formerly for nine
                    years joint editor of the Democratic organ at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Indiana State Sentinel, was directed against the extension of
                    slavery. Late in 1853 he was called from his retirement by his son, George, who wanted to publish an
                    independent weekly which he called Chapman's Chanticleer. The two young
                    partners, George H. Chapman and Horatio S. Garner, felt that the success of their venture depended
                    largely upon the skill and judgment of the older man, and J. P. Chapman was glad for an opportunity
                    to write his opinions untrammeled by party management. The paper, he stated in the first issue, was
                    to be independent but not neutral, adding that "any chicken heart may be a neutral, but it
                    requires a stout heart of the real game cock breed to be really and truly independent."22 Chapman, like Garber, had been too strongly
                    anti-slavery to harmonize with the leaders of his party and had withdrawn from the Sentinel in 1850. Three years later he had been denied the appointment as postmaster at 
                        Indianapolis
                     even though the people had shown their preference for him.23
                    Although he denied that he had any regrets in the matter, this incident must have made it a little
                    less difficult to cut the party ties which he had known for so many years.
            Much the same situation existed in 
                        Illinois
                    . The revolt of the Democratic press in 
                        Chicago
                     was so extensive that Douglas was forced to establish a new party organ. John L.
                    Scripps and William Bross, editors of The Democratic Press, were among the
                    earliest to come out in open opposition. Scripps had been added to the editorial staff of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune in 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 638.
                  
                     21
                            Morning Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), Feb. 28, 1854.
                  
                     22
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, Nov. 17, 1853.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., Jan. 6, 1854.
               
                     1848 when that paper supported Van Buren for President, but he
                    sold out his interest in 1851, because, as a Free Soiler "with Democratic
                    proclivities," he was not in harmony with his Whig associates. Shortly afterwards he met
                    William Bross, a young Democrat, whom he found willing to join him in a venture which they called
                    the Democratic Press.24 They supported Douglas until the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue arose, but then young Scripps followed his conscience and his Free Soil tendency
                    as a letter to his father shows: 
                        Douglas's course on the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, I regard as unfortunate. I have taken the course on the subject
                            which both reason and conscience dictated. It will doubtless cost me something and may
                            greatly retard me in my undertakings, but as I cannot help it, I do not suffer it to afflict
                            me. William [his brother] writes me that I have ruined myself. If I am to be ruined at all,
                            let it be from meeting the responsibilities of my position with a conscience void of offense
                            toward God and man, I am content.25
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Democrat, edited by "Long" John Went-worth, the dean of the
                    editorial profession in his state and the only Democratic member of the 
                        Illinois
                     delegation in Congress who had actually voted against the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill, took an anti-
                        Nebraska
                     position on March 11.26
            
            Downstate papers also joined the revolt. The Alton Courier, edited by George T.
                    Brown, had the largest circulation in the area outside of 
                  Chicago. Brown
                boldly stated his
                    grounds for opposition: 
                        It opens the door for a great outrage on human rights, the introduction of slavery into
                            territory now free, and which we would be glad ever to remain so…. We desire to
                            see that aggressive spirit [of slavery] met, repelled, and driven back to within the area in
                            which we believe the compromises of the constitution intended it should be permitted to
                            exist, but this bill extends its area, under the specious plea of democratic principle.27
                  
                    
            
            Dr. Charles H. Ray, an editor of the leading Democratic paper in northwestern 
                        Illinois
                    , the Galena Jeffersonian, early took anti-
                        Nebraska
                     ground: 
                        Mr. Douglas's 
                                Nebraska
                             bill is a bomb shell in our camp. We rejoice to know that it will be actively
                            and vigorously opposed. It asks too much, and it asks for Slavery. The friends of the
                            Compromise of 
                        
                           24 William, Bross, History of 
                                            Chicago
                                        
                            (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1876), 81.
                        
                           25 Mrs. Grace Locke Scripps Dyche, "John Locke
                                    Scripps, Lincoln's Campaign Biographer," Journal
                                    of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     State Historical Society, XVII, 34–3.
                        
                           26
                                    
                                        Chicago
                                     Democrat (daily), March 11, 1854.
                        
                           27 Alton Courier, quoted by 
                              
                                            Illinois
                                         Journal (dally), May 26, 1854.
                     
                             1820, and of the Compromise of 1850, which latter
                            affirmed the former, are not to be crowded into a measure looking to the repeal of the one
                            or the other. We shall take occasion to speak, at length, of the true relation of the two,
                            and of the manifest duty of Democrats at this crisis. Let it suffice for the present that we
                            shall oppose the measure with what ability and industry we may possess.28
                  
                    
            
            Before the battle of editorials had well begun the people began to take action. The procedure was
                    that common to American democracy. The citizens of town or county met in the court house or some
                    large hall and organized by the selection of a chairman and secretary and the appointment of a
                    committee on resolutions. While the committee was at work, addresses were made by local orators whom
                    the crowd spontaneously called to the front.29
            
            In a study of the Democratic insurgency of 1854, the reaction of the Germans must not be overlooked,
                    for large numbers of them belonged to that party. In fact, the Germans were among the first to voice
                    their protest. They opposed the Clayton amendment because it affected their political rights should
                    they emigrate to the new territory. In common with all others in the Northwest who desired cheap
                    land, they were interested in the effect of the extension of slavery into the 
                        Nebraska
                     Territory upon free labor and homesteads. Many of them also sincerely abhorred slavery
                    and opposed its extension on moral grounds.30 Before the end of January, George
                    Schneider became the leading spirit in a mass meeting of Germans in 
                        Chicago
                    ; another was held on March 16, after the Senate passed the bill, at which Schneider,
                    Frances A. Hoffman, and Edward Schlaeger, prominent German Democrats, were present. Schlaeger, the
                    editor of the Deutsch-Amerikaner, played a leading part in the second meeting.31 Eight hundred German voters of 
                        Chicago
                     sent an anti-
                        Nebraska
                     petition to the state legislature.32 The German Democrats of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    
                  
                     28 Galena Jeffersonian, quoted by Morning Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), Feb. 7, 1864. Some other anti-
                                Nebraska
                             Democratic papers were: 
                                Aurora
                            
                            Guardian; 
                                Chester
                            
                            Herald; Greenville Journal; Rock Rivar Democrat
                            (Rockford); 
                                Urbana
                            
                            Union; Southern Illinoisan (Shawnesstown, in "
                                Egypt
                            "); two German papers, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Staats-Zeitung, George Schneider, editor, 
                                Chicago
                            , and Alton Vorwarts. See Franklin William Scott, Newspapers and Periodicals of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 181–879: Alton Courier (dally). Aug. 12,
                            1864.
                  
                     29 Such a meeting was apt to be called by a group made up of men from
                            all parties. Such a group would insert a call in a newspaper. In some instances meetings
                            were sponsored by insurgent Democrats only.
                  
                     30
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, March 9, 1864.
                  
                     31 William Vocke, "The Germans and the German
                            Press," Transactions of the 
                                McLean County
                             Historical Society (
                                Bloomington
                            . Ill.), III, 53; Andrew Jacke Town-send. The Germans of 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (Reprinted from the Jahrbuch der
                            Deutsch-Americanischen Historischen Gesellschaft von 
                                Illinois
                            , 1932), 27.
                  
                     32
                            
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily), Feb. 21, 1864.
               
                     also held an anti-
                        Nebraska
                     mass meeting. After hearing addresses in their native tongue, they called out Lucian
                    Barbour and Jacob P. Chapman, both Democrats of long standing, for speeches.33
            
            Democrats played a significant role in some of the mass meetings, which were held in every corner of
                    these two states while the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill was pending in Congress. At 
                        Chicago
                     on February 8, the chairman, James Curtiss, former mayor and prominent in the party,
                    declared that he could follow Douglas no longer. A few days later, the pro-
                        Nebraska
                     wing of the party tried to hold a meeting but the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men prevented the passage of their resolutions and substituted instead those of the
                    earlier meeting. Leaders in this strategem were Curtiss, E. G. Larned, and Francis C. Sherman,
                    former state representative.34 The pro-
                        Nebraska
                     men of 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, had a similar experience about a month later.35 Hon.
                    Charles Reemelin, German Democratic leader of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , addressed a meeting at West Union, Indiana.36 Meetings in
                    districts represented by Chamberlain and Harlan endorsed their opposition to the bill in
                        Congress.37 It must not be forgotten, however, when considering insurgency
                    in the Democratic party, that thousands of Whigs and Free Soilers were participating in these mass
                    meetings which were in many cases dominated by their leaders rather than by Democrats.
            This brief survey indicates a considerable opposition among the Democracy of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . Two Indiana newspapers felt that it was serious enough to threaten the
                    party's supremacy in the state. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier claimed that "it would be suicidal to undertake to make it [
                        Nebraska
                     Bill] a Democratic measure by endorsing it in the State Convention." The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier declared that the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were determined to prevent the extension of negro slavery into formerly free
                    territory where it would surely degrade free labor, but he feared that they would not be able to
                    control the state convention.38 These editors belonged to the insurgent faction,
                    but a regular Democrat could also see breakers ahead. P. M. Kent, of 
                        New Albany
                    , wrote 
                  
                     33
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), March 11, 1854.
                  
                     34
                            Morning Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Feb. 20, 1854.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly). March 25, 1854.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid.. May 20, 1854.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., March 25, 1854.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., June 3, 1854.
               
                     William H. English, his Congressman, that he had only seen two
                    copies of Douglas's last masterly speech on the bill "when thousands should have
                    been circulated. Mark what I say, that the temporary opposition to this measure may do us some
                    political damage, if not looked to in time." Later he wrote that "The political
                    horizon looks very well in this portion of the state; but it is very certain the coming canvass must
                    be managed very carefully, and with unusual skill & energy."39
                    Moreover, the cool reception which was accorded the returning Senators boded evil for the
                    approaching campaign. In 
                        Chicago
                    , always so friendly to the Little Giant, Douglas was refused a hearing by the assembled
                    crowd. His voice was drowned in the tumult.40 Senator Pettit found his audiences
                    at 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     quite hostile. In the former place resolutions endorsing his vote on 
                        Nebraska
                     were defeated, and probably he was saved a similar humiliation in the capital only
                    because no resolutions were presented. His 
                        Indianapolis
                     hearers greeted some of his statements with hisses, however, which irritated him
                        considerably.41
            
            The opposition of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     wing of the party developed into insurgency at the state convention on May 24, the day
                    before the Senate acted upon the bill for the second time. This faction had hoped to send enough
                    delegates to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to prevent the endorsement of Douglas and his bill. William R. Ellis thought that
                    silence was the best policy. He could not see how a question which divided the party vote in the
                    House of Representatives almost equally could be rightfully considered a Democratic measure. In any
                    event it would be dangerous to party harmony to endorse this particular bill. In his opinion such
                    action could be prevented if the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats would attend the convention and put forth a united opposition. Michael C.
                    Garber doubted this in view of the character of the membership of the convention which, he said, had
                    been packed.42 There were anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men present at the convention, but they controlled the delegations of only three
                    counties, 
                  Henry, Randolph
               , and 
                        Lake
                    . The 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were ably represented by Henry L. Ellsworth and William R. Ellis. From 
                        Wayne
                    
                    
                  
                     39 P. M. Kent to [W. H. English], 
                                New Albany
                            , Ind., April 17, May 17, 1864. English Collection.
                  
                     40
                            Memoirs of Gustave Koerner, 180–896, Edited by Thomas J.
                            MoCormack (Cedar Rapids. 
                                Iowa
                            , 1909), II, –.
                  
                     41
                            Morning Journal (
                                Indianapolis
                            ). June 16, 1854.
                  
                     42
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), June 3, 1854.
               
                     county came Oliver P. Morton, Charles H. Test, and Othniel
                    Beeson. 
                        Jefferson county
                     sent John A. Hendricks. Reuben A. Riley, a member of the state central committee, was
                    from 
                        Hancock county
                    . There were others, but altogether they were too few to overrule Bright and his
                    lieutenants. When the platform was brought up for consideration, Ellsworth of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and A. McDonald from 
                        Lake county
                     protested against the resolution which endorsed the 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
               
                        Bill.43 Nevertheless it was adopted with only three counties dissenting.
                    Morton, Test and Beeson walked out of the convention amid hisses and taunts. They were then read out
                    of the party.44
            
            The Democratic party was confronted by another question which needed skillfull handling or still
                    other men would be alienated. This was the prohibition issue which had become increasingly pressing
                    since the previous autumn. It cut squarely across party lines. The local option feature of the law
                    of 1853 had been declared void by the state Supreme Court. On January 11 the friends of temperance,
                    regardless of party, had held a state convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; had appointed a state central committee of three Democrats and two Whigs; and had made
                    plans for county organization. The temporary chairman, James P. Milliken (
                        Dearborn County
                    ) and the president, Bishop E. R. Ames (
                        Marion County
                    ) were Democrats, as were at least three of the vice presidents, H. L. Ellsworth (
                        Tippecanoe County
                    ), James Blake (
                        Marion County
                    ) and Milliken.45 In fact, so many leaders of the meeting were
                    Democrats that "the imputation that this movement" was "but a scheme of
                    the Whigs to distract the Democratic party" proved groundless.46 The
                    temperance men pledged themselves to vote only for candidates for the state legislature who would
                    work for an effective prohibitory law which embodied "the principle of the right of search,
                    of seizure, of confiscation and destruction of all intoxicating liquors kept for illegal
                    sale." They resolved to make this the paramount issue. They would support the candidates of
                    their respective parties only if they held these views; if one party accepted this as their
                    platform, all would vote for that party's candidates; if neither party 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Madison
                             Courier (daily), Hay 27, 1854.
                  
                     44 William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), 1, 3–9.
                  
                     45 The minutes of the proceedings of the State Temperance Convention
                            were published in the Morning Journal. Jan. 21, 1864.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., Feb. 11, 1864.
               
                     nominated temperance men, they would bring out a ticket of their
                    own. Such was their ultimatum to the old parties.47
            
            A few delegates in the May Convention wished to maintain silence on this delicate question. The
                    edtior of the Indiana State Sentinel maintained that it was not a political
                    question and therefore should not come before the convention. The plank on temperance did not
                    satisfy the temperance Democrats, even though it may have been designed for that purpose. It
                    declared intemperance to be a great moral and social evil which should be restrained by legislation,
                    but at the same time it opposed any law authorizing the searching for or seizure, confiscation, and
                    destruction of private property.48 Men like James Blake who might have remained
                    loyal to the party on the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue were alienated by this plank. Ellsworth told the convention that 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     would be lost if the resolution was adopted.49 The temperance men
                    had no alternative but to join the opposition group if it should adopt a strong recommendation for a
                    prohibitory law, which it did.
            The example of the state convention in reading out of the party the bolting anti-
                        Nebraska
                     delegates from 
                        Wayne County
                     was rather generally followed throughout the state by the congressional conventions
                    when they met to select candidates for Congress. Morton's hopes of controlling the 
                        Wayne county
                     organization were dashed to the ground by the district convention on May 26.50 His name had been frequently mentioned for the nomination, but in July he
                    wrote a letter to be read at the district convention stating his anti-
                        Nebraska
                     views. He also authorized the withdrawal of his name from consideration as a candidate
                    for Congress. This convention adopted resolutions which practically expelled from the party any
                    delegate who refused to support the state ticket and the nominee of the convention then in session.
                    When pro-
                        Nebraska
                     resolutions were adopted and Joseph S. Buckles was named as the candidate, the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men withdrew to the railroad depot and named Joseph Holman as an independent Democratic
                    candidate for Congress. Among the insurgents were 
                  
                     47
                     Ibid., Feb. 22, 24, 1854: 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), June 22, 1864.
                  
                     48 William E. Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant
                                Political Partiet in Indiana, 185–900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), –0.
                  
                     49
                            A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of
                            Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880). "James Blake'" (District 7), 102. The
                            binder's title is Representative Men of Indiana. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily) June 6. 22, 1854.
                  
                     50 Foulke, Oliver P. Morton, I,
                        3–0.
               
                     Charles H. Test, former Secretary of State and delegate to the
                    recent state convention, William Grose, a Pierce elector in 1852, William Baker, three times
                    sheriff, Othniel Beeson and Judge Walter March, both members of the state constitutional convention
                    of 1850, Richard Jones, John Neff, and Joseph Holman.51
            
            In the fourth congressional district convention Thomas Smith was expelled. He was one of the best
                    campaigners in the party and had had a long career in politics as state representative and senator,
                    as member of the national House for three terms, and as a delegate to the state constitutional
                    convention. In the sixth the axe fell on Jacob P. Chapman, Judge W. J. Paslee of 
                        Shelby County
                    , Dr. James Ritchey, and Lucian Barhour formerly federal district attorney. Thus the
                    so-called 
                        Nebraska
                     test was applied very vigorously in Indiana. There was one exception. In the tenth
                    district moderation prevailed. 
                        Nebraska
                     was declared not to be a test, and E. M. Chamberlain was renominated by acclamation.52 In the eleventh district, Harlan declined a second nomination. The anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats made a brave, but losing fight to gain control of the meeting. Only two of
                    their number were placed on the resolutions committee and their candidate, John U. Pettit, received
                    but eight votes.53
            
            This test was bitterly resented by the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     insurgents. They claimed to be loyal to the true Democratic principles. They protested
                    that one of the cardinal principles of the party was liberty to hold individual opinions on such
                    questions as this. The very fact that the May convention dictated party orthodoxy on the 
                        Nebraska
                     question drove many Democrats into the arms of the fusionists. Probably most of them
                    would have returned to the fold when the election was over had not this been insisted upon as a
                    test.
            The delegates to the state convention had scarcely reached their homes before the crystallization of
                    the insurgent forces began. The 
                        Lafayette
                     court house was filled to capacity with those who insisted on thinking for themselves
                    and had come to hear their anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Congressman, Mace, explain the reasons for his vote.54 A few days
                    later, he addressed 
                  
                     51
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, July 27, 1854; Indiana State
                                Sentinel (daily). July 24, 1864.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., Aug. 2, 8, 1854; 
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, copied in Indiana State Jam/null (weekly). Sept. 2, 1854.
                  
                     53
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, July 13, 1854.
                  
                     54
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), June 3, 1864.
               
                     a similar audience in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Jacob P. Chapman presided at the latter meeting. Both men declared emphatically that
                    the others, not they, had deserted the party. Mace accused Douglas of being willing to go to any
                    length in order to gratify his "insatiate ambition." He asserted that the cry of
                    popular sovereignty was only a blind to cover the real purpose of the bill which was the extension
                    of slavery over free territory. Had not his test amendment expressly giving the territorial
                    legislature full power to establish or prohibit slavery been defeated? He vehemently denied the
                    right of a "packed" convention to make support of such a bill a test of his
                    orthodoxy as a Democrat. Mace urged his audience to organize with the purpose of restoring the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise even though it seemed impossible of realization for many years due to the
                    composition of the Senate. At least, he insisted, the admission of more slave holding states could
                    be blocked by the House.55
            
            Similar meetings occurred in rapid succession at 
                        Greensburg
                     (June 9), 
                        Wabash
                     (June 10), 
                        Danville
                     (June 17), and 
                        Marion
                     (June 24). Forty-six Democrats of 
                        Decatur county
                    , including Will Cumback, who was nominated for Congress by the People's
                    Convention a month later, signed a pledge to vote only for anti-
                        Nebraska
                     candidates for Congress and for temperance candidates for the legislature.56 The setting up of tests proved to be a two-edged sword which more than one
                    could wield. Sixty-five Democrats of 
                        Wabash County
                     signed a call for a mass meeting 
                        to express their sentiments, independent of party dictation, and in such terms that wrong
                            doers and endorsers of the infamy of the 
                                Nebraska
                             Bill, may understand and fear…. Let all come. The Democracy of 
                                Wabash county
                            
                            know, and fear no power that can make them countenance wrong, they work in no party traces under the lash, and swallow no bitter pill
                            compounded by political quacks.
                     This 
                        Wabash
                     meeting showed a decided radical tendency. Usually the demands went no further than for
                    a restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise or the admission of no more slave-holding states, but here the pledge was
                    made to support only those candidates who stood for the repeal of the fugitive slave law. Judge John
                    U. Pettit, who was to become the People's candidate for Congress, addressed this group.57
            
            
               
                        55
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  56
                        Ibid., June 24, 1854; Chapman's Chanticleer, June 22, 1854.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., June 15, 1854; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal (daily). Jane 6, 20, 1854.
            
            
            The "true" Democrats of 
                        Hendricks County
                     were summoned by the following stirring call: 
                        Democrats, Arouse! Those who aspire to be our leaders have betrayed us at the late packed
                            convention; leaving the oldest cherished principles of Democracy, for which we have so long
                            and triumphantly battled, they have attempted to bind and sell us to the slave drivers of
                            the South, and the rumseller of the North. Shall we submit to the gross imposition? Let the
                            answer ring, never! never!58
                  
                     In 
                        Grant county
                     sixty insurgents called for a meeting.59 Thus the work of
                    organization was carried on.
            Editors also joined the revolt against the domination of the May Convention. The 
                  
                            Whitley
                         Pioneer did so with the expectation of being expelled from the party, but the
                    editor was consoled by the thought that he would then be in the "biggest
                        crowd."60 The 
                  Wabash Valley
                    Olio of Peru voiced a spirit of revolt: 
                        The address we consider exceedingly puerile, its tone undignified, and uses any quantity of
                            soft soap and flattery to entice our adopted citizens to maintain "the great
                            constitutional, permanent, and indissoluble Democratic party." Our sympathies and
                            feelings have always been for the Democratic party, but when we see them
                            depart so far from the path of honesty as to sacrifice the prosperity of the State for the
                            express purpose of carrying an election, we are compelled to stop square off and do the next
                            best—which would be to vote for, and use our influence (and we make no
                            pretensions to having an abundance,) for the election of honest Temperance men, from
                            whatever party they may hail….61
                  
                    
            
            On the extent of the insurgency another Democratic paper, the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Planter, observed that it 
                        would be no difficult matter to find three very good, very true, and very intelligent
                            democrats, who would not sanction more than one each of these measures [
                                Nebraska
                             Act and evasion of the temperance question], and a far less difficult matter to
                            find hundreds of democrats who would not coincide with the convention in their views on
                            either of these measures.62
                  
                    
            
            At 
                        Covington
                     a new paper, the Democrat, was started because its editor, L. S.
                    Swart, could not stand the "whiskey" and 
                        Nebraska
                     planks in the platform.63 The prophesy of Reuben E. Fenton, anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat of 
                        New York
                    , made 
                  
                     58
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal (weekly), June 24, 1864.
                  
                     59
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly). June 24, 1854.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., June 24, 1864: 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal (daily). June 19, 1864.
                  
                     61
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), June 10, 1854.
                  
                            62
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     63
                            Ibid.. July 8, 1864.
               
                     on the floor of the House of Representatives, had indeed been
                    realized in Indiana: 
                        But I tell gentleman, if this is by any process sought to be applied as a test, you will find
                            ‘Softs,’ not only in 
                                New York
                            , but they will spring up all over the northern States as thick as seed sown in
                            reinvigorated fallow ground. Ay, sir, like the fabled Antaeus, they will spring from the
                            earth; and it will require more than the power of a little giant, or the
                            labor of a Hercules, to crush them out or put them down.64
                  
                    
            
            Protest by resolution no doubt relieved the feelings of the insurgents, but something more was
                    necessary if the party dictators, as they called the leaders of the state convention, were to be
                    humbled. As Mace declared, some organization of their power was needed to render it effective. The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium, and 
                        Rushville
                    
                    Republican each suggested that a plebiscite be taken on the 
                        Nebraska
                     question by putting a ticket made up of independent Democrats in the field to oppose
                    the regulars. The two latter, both Whig, were willing to support such a ticket, and in their opinion
                    their party should also, because they were in a minority and could not expect to elect a ticket,
                    should they name one, without outside aid.65 Apparently the idea did not appeal
                    to the Whigs as a whole. Instead they were very generally willing to fuse with the Democrats and
                    Free Soilers for the purpose of defeating the Democratic party and at the same time placing some of
                    their own members in office. During the month of June, the calls for conventions of anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men regardless of party were published in the press. 
                        Jefferson County
                    , the home of Michael C. Garber, was in the van of this phase of the movement. Many
                    prominent Democratic insurgents participated in the meeting at 
                        Madison
                     on June 13. Addresses were delivered by ex-Congressman Thomas Smith and by John A.
                    Hendricks. Also present were Garber, Samuel Wilson, and Rev. David Stiver. Their influence can be
                    traced in the resolutions, especially in that one which declared: 
                        That, we cannot stand on the platform of the Democratic party, manufactured recently at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , for three reasons: 1st, Because the democracy is thereby pledged to the
                            extension of whiskey; 2d, to the extension of slavery; 3d, to the contraction of
                        religion.
                    
            
            The pledge to work for the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and to support only those candidates who would 
                  
                     64
                            Cong. Globe. 83 Cong., 1 sess., 185–. Feb. 15, 1864. Appendix, 156.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier (dally), Hay 2, 23, 1854; Chapman's
                                Chanticleer, July 13, 1854.
               
                     make the same promise have a familiar ring after one has read
                    the resolutions of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democratic meetings. The statement that squatter sovereignty was not to be found in the
                            
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act was also of peculiar significance to the insurgent
                    element, for popular sovereignty was considered a part of the Democratic creed.66
            
            Other counties followed the example of Jefferson. William R. Ellis was a secretary of the meeting at 
                        Lafayette
                    , which included in its resolutions one favoring an effective prohibitory act. Dr. J. B.
                    McFarland, an Old-Line Democrat, made one of the addresses. Ellis and McFarland also attended and
                    addressed another gathering at Rossville.67
            
            Delegates to a mass meeting of the people of the entire state were appointed by these local groups.
                    Such a convention had been recommended by the Free Democratic Association of the state which met in
                    the latter part of May, but no definite date had been suggested. The 
                        Madison
                     meeting of June 13, however, proposed that the people gather on the anniversary of the
                    passage of the Ordinance of 1787, that is on July 13. Two days later, Chapman's Chanticleer carried a brief item concerning the movement for
                    "a great meeting of the people" and added that it was "high time for the
                    WEST to speak for itself." Not until four days after this notice did the Whig organ at 
                        Indianapolis
                     mention the matter and then only to notice the existence of a general sentiment in
                    favor of it. However, the same issue did carry a call for a state convention which was signed by
                    sixty-eight men of 
                  Floyd, Parke, Ripley
               , and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties. Among the signers were twenty-nine Democrats, eighteen Whigs, and two Free
                    Soilers. The political affiliation of the others was not given. Two familiar names in the list were
                    those of Thomas Smith and James P. Milliken.68 Thus the movement seemed to
                    spring spontaneously from the people themselves. Not until the meeting was assured did Chapman's Chanticleer, on June 29, put at the head of its editorial column in
                    conspicuous type a notice of the impending "People's Mass Meeting." In a
                    private letter the editor of the Whig organ gave his reasons for the seeming indifference of the Journal. He wrote to Schuyler Colfax, another Whig editor: 
                  
                     66
                     Indiana State Journal (weekly), June 10, 1864.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid.. July 8, 1864.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Madison
                             Courier (daily), May SO, 1864; Indiana State Journal
                            (weekly). June 17, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily). June 19, 1864.
               
                    
                    
                        I have been prevailing on others to make the move for a State Convention, preferring that it
                            should come from Democrats, if possible. Had the Journal been the first to
                            move, it would have been set down as a Whig movement…. Efforts must be made to
                            prevent its becoming a failure. Come down, with as many Democrats as you can bring.69
                  
                     It can scarcely be doubted that Defrees, Chapman and many others had been working quietly
                    to bring about the consummation they desired—a fusion of all the elements that were
                    antagonistic to the Democracy.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens of all parties lent their aid in the preparations for the occasion. Chapman,
                    Barbour, and John L. Ketcham, from the insurgent element, were active. Delegations began to arrive
                    on July 12. They met on the evening of that day and organized with Chapman as chairman and a Whig as
                    secretary. Then, as was the custom, speeches were in order. Chapman once more stated his position on
                    the issue of the day and was followed by Reuben A. Riley, until very recently a member of the
                    Democratic state central committee. The crowd was treated to a "most thrilling and
                    eloquent" address by Schuyler Colfax which suffered nothing in contrast with the
                    "excellent, argumentative speech" of S. S. Harding, the Free Soiler. This in turn
                    was lightened by the delightful humor of Judge John W. Wright, and the whole reached a climax in the
                    "unrivaled style of popular oratory" for which Henry S. Lane was noted.70
            
            On the following day, July 13, a crowd, variously estimated at from three to ten thousand people,
                    assembled on the state house lawn. Many anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were present. The 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     delegation of six hundred arrived on a special train and marched in a body to the state
                    house. The Old-Line Democrat, Henry L. Ellsworth, led this group, at least half of whom were
                    Democrats according to the Indiana State Journal.71 Thomas H.
                    Bringhurst, of the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal, thought he saw "almost the entire Democratic party from 
                        Lafayette
                    " there, and also most of that party from 
                        Howard county
                    . He also noticed "prominent Democratic leaders from 
                  Plymouth, Rochester
               , and Peru."72 Even William J.
                    Brown, of the State Sentinel, gloomily admitted that hundreds of deluded members
                    of his party would be there, as well as 
                  
                     69 O. J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1887), 78, footnote.
                  
                     70
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly). July 15, 1854.
                  
                            71
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     72
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal (weekly), July 22, 1854.
               
                     "such Democrats as have deserted their party on account
                    of a failure to obtain office." When the work of the convention was done, he observed that
                    these disappointed office-seekers "have found this a favorable opportunity to wreak their
                    slum-bearing vengeance…. These deserters have been made captains of the host. They are
                    the commanders and the old and tried Whigs are ordered into the ranks to fight under the lead of
                    their former enemies."73 The Democratic editor observed rightly.
                    Democratic insurgents did play a prominent role that day. Chapman served as temporary chairman;
                    Thomas Smith was named permanent chairman and was introduced by Garber. Four of the vice-presidents
                    belonged to the same element—J. P. Milliken, Dr. James Ritchey, O. P. Davis, (state
                    senator) and H. L. Ellsworth. Garber and Reuben A. Riley were secretaries.74
            
            The resolutions committee had no small task if it were to reconcile all of the conflicting interests
                    and principles represented in this assemblage of anti-
                        Nebraska
                     and "
                        Maine
                    -Law" Democrats, Whigs, Free Soilers, and Know Nothings. On one point all could
                    agree—their opposition to the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. The committee put in a plank explicity repudiating and denouncing the
                    "self-styled" Democratic convention of the 24th of May for the benefit of the
                    insurgents. There was also a judiciously worded resolution on prohibition which it was hoped would
                    satisfy the temperance men without alienating any prospective recruits from the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     German element in the state. The committee may have seen the announcement in the State Sentinel of July 10 that the Germans of 
                        St. Joseph county
                     had passed anti-
                        Nebraska
                     resolutions but had also declared the "
                        Maine
                     Law" to be wrong and undemocratic. Chapman considered this too weak a plank to
                    draw many new converts from among the temperance Democrats who had, of course, threatened to place
                    their own ticket in the field if both parties failed to take a sufficiently strong position on a
                    prohibitory law. George W. Julian, Free Soil leader, was even less pleased with the platform. His
                    minority report had been tabled. It stated much the same principles but in much clearer and bolder
                    terms. It did go further in saying that the 
                        Nebraska
                     Act exonerated the North from the observance of the Compromise of 1850 or in other
                    words 
                  
                     73
                            Indiana State Sentinel (daily), July 12, 19, 1854.
                  
                     74 The minutes of the official proceedings were published in the Indiana State Journal (weekly), July 22, 1854.
               
                     from obedience to the hated fugitive slave law. Consequently he
                    termed the People's platform "narrow and equivocal." On the whole,
                    however, the fusionists were well pleased with their maiden effort.75
            
            The Whigs were willing to allow their Democratic allies the lion's share of the offices in
                    order to attract votes from the party which had dominated state politics for so many years. They
                    admitted that only by a breach in their opponent's ranks could they hope to overthrow them.
                    Luckily for the Whigs, then, just when their own organization seemed about to fall into ruin, the
                    break came in the other party. They were quick to seize the issue, to make the most of their
                    opportunity, and to remain in the background until their goal was accomplished. It is true that
                    they, themselves, had some deserters, but they expected to be more than compensated by the votes of
                    their allies. Defrees, himself, suggested that three places on the state ticket be assigned to the
                    Democratic insurgents.76 Accordingly E. B. Collins, Hiram E. Talbott and Dr.
                    William R. Nofsinger, all Democrats, were named for secretary of state, auditor, and treasurer,
                    respectively. Two Whigs, Samuel B. Gookins, and Caleb Mills, were nominated for judge of the
                    superior court and superintendent of public instruction.
            The interest of the campaign was divided between the congressional and state elections. In both cases
                    the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue was at stake, for the state legislature would choose a successor to 
                        United State
                     Senator John Pettit. However, in the election of members of the legislature, the
                    paramount question was the "
                        Maine
                     Law." Daniel Mace was the choice of the People's party in the eighth
                    Congressional district. Another Democratic insurgent was chosen in the eleventh district, where
                    Harlan refused to run again—John U. Pettit. In Chamberlain's district the
                    Democracy did not make 
                        Nebraska
                     a test and renominated him. The Fusion papers at once charged him with acquiescing. In
                    this district the fusionists, therefore, supported Samuel Brenton, a former Whig. In two other
                    districts, the fourth and sixth, the People's candidates were anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats. Will Cumback was the nominee in the former and Lucian Barbour in the latter.
                    The extent of the Democratic influence in the councils of the sixth 
                  
                     75
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, July 20, 1854; George W. Julian. Political Recollections, 182–872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884). 144: 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal (weekly). July 22, 1864.
                  
                     76
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), July 15, 1854.
               
                     congressional district is indicated by the fact that the three
                    names voted upon were all anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats—Barbour, James Ritchey, and Reuben A. Riley.77
            
            So extensive was insurgency in the Democratic party and such was the nature of the issues, with their
                    moral implication, that the Democracy found themselves on the defensive in a state which they had
                    considered safe for many years.78 Arrayed against them were all of their former
                    foes plus the insurgent Democrats, all united now, whereas before, the opposition was divided. Whigs
                    and Free Soilers, whose separate organizations had practically disappeared by 1854, were now
                    co-operating in the support of common candidates. Had this been all, the Democrats might still have
                    been victorious, but there was the schism within its own ranks. The Know-Nothings furnished some
                    restless Democrats a convenient and secret bridge to full-fledged membership in a new party.79 A campaign charge was that the People's state ticket had been made
                    up by a group of Know-Nothing leaders in secret session the night before the convention.80 The 
                        Nebraska
                     test drove many Democrats into the opposition. As has been revealed, some of the best
                    old leaders and some of the promising young Democrats were among the "renegrades."
                    The fusion papers were naturally prone to make the insurgency seem as extensive as possible, but
                    even the State Sentinel had to admit the presence of a serious schism: 
                        We have been pained exceedingly to know that many of those who have heretofore acted with the
                            Democratic party, and defended its principles, (among them the principle of
                            non-intervention) men who have been honored, too, with the confidence of the party, have
                            abandoned that party and united with Free-soilers and Abolitionists in their crusade against
                            Democracy. We regret it. We know that many of them did not comprehend the schemes of
                            Abolitionism, and were deluded by the belief that the issue would simply be the
                            reinstatement of the act of 1820, and as they regarded it, the maintainence of plighted
                            faith with the South….81
                  
                    
            
            The prohibition issue carried off still more of their Old-Liners. In this group were James Blake, a
                    life-long Democrat, and G. M. Overstreet, who came out as a prohibition candidate 
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., Aug. 6, 1864.
                  
                     78
                            Lew Wallace; An Autobiography (N.Y., 1906), I. 237.
                  
                     79 David Turpie. Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), 154; 
                        
                                    Logansport
                                 Journal, (weekly), June 24, 1864.
                  
                     80
                            Democratic (
                                    Logansport
                                ) Pharos (weekly), July 19, 1864.
                  
                     81
                            Indiana State Sentinel (daily), Sept. 9, 1854.
               
                     for the legislature.82 The Methodist Church,
                    many of whose members were Democrats, also threw itself into the battle.83 The
                    Methodist members of the party seceded on two grounds—slavery and temperance. The North
                    Indiana Methodist Conference, in the fall of 1853, had condemned slavery in all of its forms, and
                    during the campaign of 1854 two quarterly conferences resolved to support only strong temperance men
                    for the legislature and anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men for Congress.84 The epithets which John L. Robinson applied to
                    their clergy did nothing to aid the Democratic cause. William H. English was advised by a friend
                    upon this subject that he 
                        
                     must early take occasion to repudiate the sentiments aroused by Robinson in
                                regard to the Methodist clergy. I say this because unfortunately, his remarks,
                            though no doubt exagerated [sic], have been and are being used to the
                            general disadvantage of the Party and might effect you, and I mention it to you because I
                            heard B. C. Pile, a prominent Methodist democrat say that he intended to interogate [sic] you upon this point….85
                  
                    
            
            In view of the prevailing situation, Graham N. Fitch, Democratic leader of 
                        Logansport
                     rather understated the case for his party when he said: "The recent union of
                    all the isms against us will give us a fight just sufficiently warm to be interesting."86
            
            In 
                        Illinois
                    , too, anti-
                        Nebraska
                     mass meetings voiced the protest of the people without regard to party. These were
                    followed by attempts upon the part of the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats to prevent the endorsement of the Douglas measure by the county and state
                    Democratic conventions, and, only when they were ignored and the despised, and to their minds
                    undemocratic, test had been applied, did they join the opposition elements or announce their own
                    independent candidates.
            Large mass meetings were held in 
                  Chicago, Ottawa
               , Rockford, Alton, and Believable. The Alton
                    meeting in June was well attended by men of both parties and by many Germans. The chairman, Timothy
                    Souther, was a Democrat, as was the chief speaker, David J. Baker.87 During July
                    and August, the county Democratic conventions met and nearly all adopted 
                  
                     82
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), June 17, 1854.
                  
                     83 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Meatmen of Half a Century
                            (N.Y., 1888). 76.
                  
                     84 Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 611; Indiana State Sentinel (daily), July 29, Aug. 24, 1854.
                  
                     85 W. F. Collum to W. H. English. 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , July 24, 1854. English Collection.
                  
                     86 Fitch to W. H. English, 
                                Logansport
                            , July 18, 1854. English Collection.
                  
                     87 Alton Courier, (daily), June 6. 9, 1864; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily), June 6, 1864.
               
                     the 
                        Nebraska
                     test for party orthodox.88 John M. Palmer, a state senator, failed
                    to prevent the endorsement of the repeal of the 
                        Nebraska
                     principle by the county and district conventions. He believed the bill to be
                    "unwise, and unnecessary—violative of national and party good faith;
                    objectionable, as being likely to disorganize and weaken the Constitutional Conservative party of
                    the North." Consequently, he forthwith withdrew his name as candidate for re-election
                    because he refused to take the 
                        Nebraska
                     test.89 The 
                        Madison county
                     convention passed pro-
                        Nebraska
                     resolutions over the objections of George T. Brown, editor of the Alton Courier, Henry S. Baker, a. young man with qualities of leadership, and P. Stibolt, editor
                    of the Alton Vorwärtz.90 As in Indiana the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     editors warned the party of impending ruin if this test was made. The voice of the few
                    moderates in the 
                        Nebraska
                     wing of the party was ignored partly because the heavy hand of administration patronage
                    was felt.91
            
            In 
                        Illinois
                    , the congressional candidates were chosen before the movement for a state fusion
                    convention came to fruition. In most of the districts, the leadership fell to the Whigs and Whig
                    leaders were nominated. In the first, second, and eighth districts, however, fusion was less
                    successful. In each of these, in addition to the Democratic and fusion nominees, there was a third
                    candidate. The call for the first district convention at 
                        Rockford
                     on August 30 was signed by both Democrats and Whigs. Thirteen Democrats participated in
                    the meeting, one of whom was Thomas J. Turner, who had served the district in the national House. He
                    was a prominent actor in the proceedings. The nominee was Elihu B. Washburne, a Whig.92 He had voted against the 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Bill. However,
                    a part of the Democratic insurgents did not join the fusionists. Thirty-six of them were delegates
                    to the Democratic convention also held at 
                        Rockford
                    . This faction withdrew when pro-
                        Nebraska
                     resolutions were adopted, much as had the 
                        Wayne County
                     insurgents in Indiana, and nominated 
                  
                     88 Alton Courier (daily), July 7, Aug. 9, 11, 12,
                            14: The Morgan Journal (
                                Jacksonville
                            ), July 6, 1854.
                  
                     89 Alton Courier (daily), Aug. 31, 1854; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Register, Aug. 9, 1854: 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily), Aug. 10, 28, 1854.
                  
                     90 Alton Courier (daily), Sept. 6, 1854; The Bench and Bar of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , edited by John M. Palmer (
                                Chicago
                            , 1899), II, 689.
                  
                     91 Alton Daily Courier. July 8, 1854: ibid., quoted
                            in 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily), Sept. 1, 1854; John A. McClernand's letter
                            in 
                        
                                    Illinois State
                                 Register, Oct. 17, 1854.
                  
                     92 Charles A. Church, History of the Republican Party in 
                                    Illinois
                                , 185–918 (Rockford, 1912), 2–1; History of 
                                    Winnebago County
                                
                     , edited by Charles A. Church, II, 727; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal, (daily), Sept. 4, 1854; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Register, Jan. 10, 1855.
               
                     Elisha P. Ferry, of 
                        Lake county
                     as the Free, or anti-
                        Nebraska
                    , Democratic candidate. Ferry had been a Pierce elector in 1852 and was postmaster at 
                        Waukegan
                    , an office of which Douglas soon had him relieved.93
            
            Confusion reigned in the second or 
                        Chicago
                     district. Robert S. Blackwell was announced as the Whig candidate.94 Wentworth was seeking renomination by his party but had several rivals for the support of
                    the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     wing.95 A portion of this wing of the now disorganized party joined
                    the Whigs in a fusion convention at 
                        Aurora
                     on September 19. George Manierre, a 
                        Chicago
                     Democrat of Free Soil leanings, who had been active in municipal politics, was named
                    chairman of the platform committee. He favored the organization of a new party and suggested the
                    name Republican which was adopted. The platform, like that of the 
                        Wabash County
                     anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats in Indiana, was more radical than the rest. It has added interest due to the
                    fact that it figured in the Lincoln-Douglas debates four years later when Douglas by mistake quoted
                    it as the state platform of the fusion party and Lincoln caught his error. The resolution which
                    carried the radical sentiments was as follows: 
                        That, the times imperatively demand the reorganization of parties, and repudiating all
                            previous party attachments, names and predilections, we unite ourselves together in defence
                            of the liberty and constitution of the country, and will hereafter co-operate as the
                            republican party, pledged to the accomplishment of the following purposes;—to
                            restore 
                                Nebraska
                             and 
                                Kansas
                             to the position of free territories;—to repeal and entirely abrogate
                            the fugitive slave law; to restrict slavery to those states in which it exists; to prohibit
                            the admission of any more slave states into the Union; to abolish slavery in the 
                                District of Columbia
                            : to exclude slavery from all the territories—; and to resist the
                            acquirement of any more territories unless the practice of slavery therein forever shall
                            have been prohibited.96
                  
                    
            
            For their candidate the Republicans of the second district selected an Old-Line Democrat, James H.
                    Woodworth, who had served two terms in the state legislature and had been mayor of 
                        Chicago
                    . The Democrats finally assembled at 
                        Aurora
                     early in October only to find that two sets of delegates had come from nearly every
                    county. The tangle was at last reduced to order by the nomination of two candidates. The 
                  
                     93
                            
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily). Sept. 10, 27. Oct. 3, 1854.
                  
                     94
                            
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Register (daily), Oct. 12, 1854.
                  
                     95 Alton Courier, July 19, 1854: Cole. Era of Civil War. 12–0.
                  
                     96 Palmer, Bench and Bar of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , I, 55–4; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Register, Oct. 16, 1864.
               
                     Douglas men settled on John B. Turner, president of the Galena
                    and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad; the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men decided on James L. Mayo, after the several rivals for the nomination withdrew.97 Thus in this district the race was four-cornered with the Democracy split
                    into three factions.
            The 
                        Nebraska
                     test divided the Democracy of the eighth district to such an extent that no nomination
                    whatever was made. However, three candidates entered the list.98 The anti-
                        Nebraska
                     voters in the district supported Lyman Trumbull, who had been secretary of state and
                    only recently had resigned as judge of the Supreme Court. The Alton Courier
                    strongly approved his candidacy: 
                        Judge Trumbull has been acknowledged by all as possessing one of the most clear,
                            comprehensive and logical minds in the West. The character of his mind, and his close method
                            of reasoning, enable him to grasp the scope and design of every measure, and after
                            subjecting it to the most careful and searching analysis, he presents its chief features in
                            the strongest possible light.99
                  
                    
            
            Since 
                        Brown
                     of the Courier was also an insurgent, he might be accused of undue
                    partiality, but Usher F. Linder, a Whig turned Democrat on the 
                        Nebraska
                     issue, was not so likely to exaggerate his estimate of Trumbull. He describes him as
                    "a profound and learned lawyer." The Alton postmaster, who favored the 
                        Nebraska
                     principle, was nevertheless ready to write: "This District of the 8th will
                    elect Judge Trumbull an Anti N.B. Democrat who is a man of fine Talants [sic]…. if an Anti is to Rep. [represent] this District I would sooner have him then
                    [sic] any one on that side…. " The 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Daily Journal spoke of him as a man of "decided talent" who
                    will do "good battle for freedom."100
            
            The state convention held at 
                        Springfield
                     during state fair week in October is not so important in a study of the Democratic
                    insurgency as was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     meeting. The Abolitionist element, led by Owen Lovejoy and Ichabod Codding, assumed the
                    direction of it and consequently conservative Democrats and Whigs shunned it. A very few of the
                    lesser 
                  
                     97
                            Ibid., Oct. 9, 1864; 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Journal (daily). Oct. 7, 1854.
                  
                     98 Alton Courier (daily), Sept. 9, 13, 1854.
                  
                     99
                            Ibid., Sept. 29, 1864.
                  
                     100 General Usher F. Linder, Reminiscence of the Early
                                Bench and Bar of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1879), 163; K, W. English to William H. English, Alton, Ill., Oct. 30, 1854.
                            English Collection.
               
                     figures among the insurgents attended and the names of such anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats as David J. Baker, Matthias L. Dunlap, and John F. Farnsworth were included
                    in the abortive state central committee. The name of Lincoln who had not attended was there also but
                    he refused to serve.101
            
            The Democracy of 
                        Illinois
                     found many of their finest men leading the campaign of opposition. Most of them have
                    been mentioned. There were Trumbull and Lieutenant Governor Gustave Koerner, Wentworth and
                    Woodworth, Palmer and Taylor, Judge Thickliffe Kitchell, Judge Sidney Breese, Francis C. Sherman, N.
                    B. Judd, and a host of others. Abraham Lincoln, astute organizer that he was, appreciated the value
                    of a man like Palmer in the campaign. When Richard Yates was needing support in his race for
                    Congress, Lincoln wrote urging that Palmer be obtained. "Palmer is the best, if you can get
                    him, I think—Jo. Gillespie, if you can not get Palmer…. But press Palmer
                    hard…. "102 The 
                  
                            Illinois
                         State Register was deceiving no one but itself when it wrote rather
                    contemptuously of these insurgents: 
                        It is true there are those who have been of us, an insignificant band, whose hopes for spoils
                            have not met fruition, who are seeking, through two or three nominal democratic papers of
                            the state, to spread disorganization in our ranks, but their efforts will be futile, and
                            their puny endeavors to sow discord whistled down the wind, and their authors consigned to
                            merited oblivion…. We have full faith that the sickly efforts of a few to spread
                            disaffection through our ranks will be met by the scorn and contempt that it deserces.103
                  
                    
            
            Election day in October, 1854, brought a sweeping victory to the People's party of Indiana.
                    David Turpie later expressed the feeling of the 
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats very dramatically: 
                        The result of the election in October, 1854, afforded us… much…
                            chagrin. A tidal wave of great force and rapidity had swept over our former constituencies.
                            It had submerged the highest and dryest places in the political reserves; it had scorned
                            calculation, laughed at prediction and tossed aside apportionments like chaff before the
                            whirlwind. We were beaten on the state ticket, in the legislature, in almost 
                        
                           101
                                    
                              
                                            Illinois
                                         State Register, Oct. 7, 1854; Paul Selby, "Republican
                                    State Convention, 
                              Springfield,
                                            Illinois
                           , October
                                    –, 1854," Transactions of the McLean County
                                    Historical Society, in, 4–5: Paul Shelby, "Genesis of the
                                    Republican Party In 
                                        Illinois
                                    ," Transactions of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     State Historical Society (
                                        Springfield
                                    , 1906). No. 11. 27–3; Lincoln to Codding, NOT. 27, 1864, Abraham Lincoln: Complete Works (
                                        New York
                                    , 1920), edited by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, I, 20–0.
                        
                           102 A. Lincoln to A. B. Morean, 
                                        Springfield
                                    , Sept. 7, 1854. photostatlc copy of original, 
                                        Illinois
                                     State Historical Library, 
                                        Springfield
                                    .
                        
                           103 Aug, 18, 1854.
                     
                             two-thirds of the counties, and if there had been
                            anything else to lose we should have lost it.104
                  
                    
            
            Election day of 1854 created several lame ducks in the Indiana delegation. Of the eight members who
                    stood for reelection only two pro-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats had succeeded, Smith Miller and William H. English, both from Democratic
                    strongholds in the southern part of the state. But in both cases, their majorities of 1852 had been
                    more than cut in half. John B. Norman wrote English that he would "be quite a
                    lion—a rara avis—this winter—a Democrat
                    re-elected to Congress."105 A third man was returned to his seat, but
                    he was an anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat. The people of the eighth district instead of administering to him "a
                    just rebuke for the manner in which he has misrepresented them on the 
                        Nebraska
                     question",106 as the Sentinel wished,
                    triumphantly vindicated his vote with a majority which almost doubled that received by him in 1852.
                    This was Daniel Mace. Chamberlain, who had opposed the bill but had been nominated by the regular
                    Democrats, was defeated along with the rest of their ticket. Three of the counties that had helped
                    him defeat Brenton in 1852 were now found in the latter's column. Only 
                        Allen County
                     remained faithful. In Indiana five Democratic congressmen were defeated through
                    defections of their own partisans.
            Four Democratic insurgents were elected—Cumback, Barbour, Pettit, and Mace—and
                    they owed their victories to the support of their fellow "traitors," for it was
                    only by the addition of Democratic votes to a Whig minority in those districts that the 
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were overwhelmed. This can be demonstrated by a calculation of the
                    approximate number of insurgents in these districts. When the total vote of 1852 is compared with
                    that of 1854, it is seen that there was an increase. If this increase is apportioned between the two
                    candidates in proportion to the per cent of the total vote which each party polled in 1852, the
                    result shows that the Democrats received less than their full strength in 1854 and the Fusion
                    candidates received more than the full Whig strength. The difference, therefore, would represent the
                    approximate number of defections from the Democratic party. Of course, this argument rests on the
                    premise that all of the Whigs fused. This is not true, but for every Whig who went over to the 
                  
                     104 Turpie, Sketches, 154.
                  
                     105 Nov. 21, 1864. English Collection.
                  
                     106
                            Indiana State Sentinel (daily), Aug. 28, 1864.
               
                     Democrats or stayed at home there would be a compensating
                    increase in the estimated number of Democratic desertions. The problem is rendered comparatively
                    simple in Indiana because in no case was there a third candidate running in any district in 1852. By
                    use of this method of calculation, it is discovered that Democratic insurgents ranged from about 850
                    in Cumback's district to about 2,000 in Mace's district. Since the latter included 
                        Lafayette
                    , where observers had declared the desertion to be very general, it is interesting that
                    the figures bear out the truth of their statements. In 1852 the Democrats polled over fifty-five per
                    cent of the total vote in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    , but two years later the percentage dropped to but slightly more than thirty-four. Thus
                    it can be concluded that the revolt reached deep into the party and affected the rank and file as
                    well as the leaders.
            In 
                        Illinois
                     the two pro-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats who ran for re-election succeeded; of the four anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Whigs who were nominated by the fusionists to succeed themselves all save one, Richard
                    Yates, were re-elected; one pro-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat declined to run again but a man of his same views was returned in his stead;
                    and in the place of the two anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats, Wentworth and Bissell, two other anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were sent to Congress, the Republican nominee, Woodworth, and the independent anti-
                        Nebraska
                     candidate, Trumbull. Thus one must conclude that the congressional delegation from 
                        Illinois
                     had really represented the wishes of their constituents in their vote on May 22, 1854.
                    It is significant, also, that in the seventh district, the Douglas Democrats won by only one vote in
                    1854, whereas two years before their majority was over twelve hundred votes. That Yates was beaten
                    in a district considered as Whig was not in keeping with the general results. Lincoln attributed it
                    to the "quarrel over the Insane Asylum & the turning of about 200 English whigs in
                    the two counties [Morgan and Scott] against him, because of Know-Nothingism."107 When the method of calculating the extent of the insurgency already applied to Indiana
                    is applied to the two districts in which Democratic deserters were candidates, that is in
                    Woodworth's and Trumbull's districts, the same conclusion is reached. In neither
                    case would the Democrats have been defeated except 
                  
                     107 Lincoln to Orville H. Browning, 
                                Springfield
                            , Nov. 12, 1854. Ms. In 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, 
                                Springfield
                            .
               
                     for insurgency in their own ranks. In both Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     party won control of the lower house in the legislature but failed to gain a majority
                    in the senate. In 
                        Illinois
                     the candidate for treasurer, a former Whig, failed of election, but in Indiana the
                    entire fusionist state ticket was put into office.
            As previously noted, Whig edtiors before the election admitted that they had no hope of success for
                    their party unless they should gain the aid of other groups. Democratic editors after the election
                    were forced to admit that they had been defeated by their own men. The only question to be discussed
                    was which of the issues or isms had proved most enticing to restive members of
                    their party. At first the Democratic state organ of Indiana was inclined to place the blame for the
                    debacle chiefly upon the deluded Democrats who had become entangled in Know-Nothingism, but also
                    attributed their defeat to the "
                        Nebraska
                     humbug" and the ill-advised temperance plank which had lost them thousands of
                    votes. Later the Sentinel seemed inclined to blame the temperance issue most. The
                    Whig organ of the state accredited their victory to the revolt of the people against political
                    corruption. It compared the mass movement to "a political sub-soil plough, turning up the
                    people from the bottom, and turning under the weeds that have grown rank upon them." Credit
                    was also given to "the universal and open desertion of their party by most of its ablest,
                    and all its conscientious leaders.—Their defeat has come… in part from the
                    rebellious sentiment of their own party, refusing to be whipped up to the support of any measure
                    that profligate leaders dared for personal advantage…. " Others interpreted it
                    as a victory for principle and as a rebuke to the Administration. Chapman hailed it as a victory of
                    the forces of good over those of evil. Garber considered the Know Nothings the weakest element in
                    the canvass, saying: 
                        But for the dissatisfaction in the ranks of the Democratic party in regard to slavery, free
                            whisky, and the over bearing disposition of the men who held the organization of the State
                            and County Conventions in their hands, it would not have been overwhelmed in defeat. The
                            temperance feeling now in the State is more powerful than the Know Nothings….
                     Colfax, who was elected to Congress at this time, gave credit  to "several hundred Democrats" for his running ahead
                    of ths ticket.108
            
            Though other factors played a large part in the Democratic insurgency of 1854, the fact that the
                    party saw fit to set up the 
                        Nebraska
                     principle as a test of party orthodoxy when half of the Democratic congressmen from the
                    northern states opposed it, was of much significance. Many Democrats who were at heart anti-slavery
                    men followed their consciences and refused to take the test; others like John M. Palmer in 
                        Illinois
                     were mainly anxious to preserve their "personal independence and the right,
                    inside of the party lines, to act according to the dictates of my own sense of personal
                        duty."109 The Democratic party, like Procrustes of the Greek myth,
                    had erected a bed upon which it stretched its members. Many had been found too long and had been cut
                    off from the party; but on election day the party had been tried by its own test and found wanting
                    by the voters.
            
               
                  108
                        Indiana, State Sentinel (daily). Oct, 18. 14, 24, 81, 1854; Indiana State Journal (weekly), Oct. 21, 1854; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal (weekly). Oct. 21. 28, 1864; Chapman's
                        Chanticleer, Oct. 19, 1854; 
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier (daily), Nov. 6, 1864; Hollister, Sohuyler Colfax,
                        134.
               
                  109 John M. Palmer, Personal Recollections (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1901), 6–.
            
         
         
         
            Early Science in the Ohio Valley
            
            ARTHUR DEEN
            
            Throughout our history, the West has always exerted a profound influence on the East. This influence
                    is not merely economic and political; it is cultural as well. Possibly there has been as much
                    liberalism in western culture as in western politics. John James Audubon was certainly progressive
                    when he conceived the idea of his Birds of America. His masterful effort to enlist
                    art to promote science was unusual to say the least. It was the height of audacity.
            Audubon's origin was long veiled in mystery. He would have us believe that his mother was a
                    Spanish lady, and that he was born near Lake Pontchartrain, 
                        Louisiana
                    . The truth is, as Francis H. Herrick has revealed from the communal records in 
                        France
                    , that Audubon was the natural son of Jean Audubon and a Creole woman, Rabin, and that
                    he was born at Aux Cayes, San Domingo, on April 26, 1785. In 1789 the child Audubon and his
                    half-sister were taken by the father, Jean Audubon, back to Nantes and presented by him to his
                    lawful wife, Anne Moynet Audubon. She welcomed the children cordially.2 Imagine
                    such a situation and outcome in an Anglo-Saxon household! In 1794 the youngsters were legally
                    adopted as the children of Jean Audubon and his wife. Audubon passed his childhood, entertained by
                    the birds, and spoiled by his new mother, Anne Moynet Audubon. For a brief period in
                    180–, young Audubon studied drawing under the great David at 
                        Paris
                    .3 This brief training constituted all the formal preparation
                    received by the boy for the artistic work of his career.
            In 1803 occurred Audubon's first return to America. He came to learn English and to enter
                    trade. He settled on his father's farm at Mill Grove near Valley
                    Forge, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Here he spent a year and began his studies of American birds. In 1804 he became
                    engaged to Lucy Bakewell, quarreled with his father's agent, Da Costa, and returned to 
                        France
                     in 1805. In 1806, or earlier, his father placed Audubon in the Naval 
                  
                     1 This paper was read before the Indiana History Teachers'
                            Association, which sponsored one of the sessions of the Annual Indiana History Conference,
                            at the Hotel Lincoln in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on December 12, 1986.
                  
                     2 Francis H. Herrick, Audubon the Naturalist (
                                New York
                            , 1917), I, 5–8, 6–8.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid.. 174.
               
                     Academy at Rochefort. While there, he made one short cruise.4 Probably to escape conscription for Napoleon's wars, he was sent back
                    to America. He and Ferdinand Rozier formed a business partnership.5 The
                    partners, in 1807, opened a store in 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               . They believed in and practiced
                    Adam Smith's principle of division of labor—Rozier kept store and Audubon hunted
                        birds.6 Business suffered from the Embargo Act, ostensibly. In 1808, having
                    shown his willingness to succeed in business and having gained the consent of her father and his
                    father, Audubon and Lucy Bakewell were married. They made their home in 
                        Louisville
                    . In 1810 his rival, the ornithologist, Wilson, visited Audubon at 
                        Louisville
                    , and tried to secure Audubon's subscription for his (Wilson's) work
                    on ornithology.7 In this year (1810), Audubon and Rozier moved to
                            
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , with their business.8 The division of
                    labor continued—Rozier kept store; Audubon hunted birds. Here at 
                        Henderson
                    , Audubon, or rather his family, spent seven years—mostly years of hardship.
            In 1811 the partners moved to Sainte Genevieve, 
                        Missouri
                    , where they dissolved, and Audubon returned to his family at 
                        Henderson
                    . Next he formed a commission business partnership with his brother-in-law, Thomas
                    Bakewell. The commission house of Bakewell and Audubon at 
                        New Orleans
                     was speedily ruined by the outbreak of war in June, 1812. Meanwhile, Audubon opened a
                    retail store at 
                        Henderson
                     on the same principle of division of labor—Audubon hunted birds; Lucy kept
                    the store.
            In 1816 Audubon and Bakewell formed another partnership and built, at 
                        Henderson
                    , a steam grist-mill and sawmill. Here Audubon, artist-naturalist, worked day and night
                    trying to succeed in business, but failed. He was sent to the 
                        Louisville
                     jail for debt,9 declared himself a bankrupt, and saved only his
                    clothes, drawings and gun. He took up the work of crayon portraiture at Shippingport
                            (
                  Portland, Kentucky
               ) and was immediately successful. Meanwhile
                    (181–820), he worked as taxidermist for a few months in Daniel Drake's Western
                    Museum at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Then he returned to the painting 
                  
                     4 Maria R. Audubon. Audubon and His Journals (
                                New York
                            , 1897), I, 24.
                  
                            5
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     6
                            Ibid.. II, 220.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid.. II. 201.
                  
                     8 Herrick, Audubon the Naturalist, I. 236.
                  
                     9 Edward A. Muschamp, Audacious Audubon (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 100.
               
                     of portraits and started a drawing school. In
                    1820—memorable year—Audubon and Lucy mutually agreed that there had been
                    enough of the foolishness of trying to succeed in business just to please their relatives, and, with
                    Lucy's complete approbation, Audubon decided to publish his work on ornithology. Thus, he
                    embarked on his marvelous artist-naturalist career. It was six years before he, in 1826, with his
                    drawings, finally sailed for Liverpool. The appreciation shown him by Europeans was inversely
                    proportional to that shown by Americans. Everybody welcomed and fraternized with the picturesque
                    artist-naturalist from the American frontier. A total stranger, his work spoke that universal
                    language of art which Europeans understand so well.
            In 
                        Liverpool
                    , Audubon was cordially received.10 In Edinburgh, he was lionized
                    even as Burns had been a generation earlier. In 
                        London
                    , Queen Adelaide became his special patron. He was elected to the Royal Society and also
                    to the Linnean Society. Personally Audubon was popular, and by art lovers universally admired. It is
                    scarcely an exaggeration to say that he stood before kings, for, in 
                        Paris
                    , the Duke of Orleans received him personally and by subscription and influence
                    materially aided him.11 Twelve years of unremitting labor, after he landed in 
                        Liverpool
                    , and $100,000 in cash, Audubon paid for success. He traveled 30,000 miles.
                    He also drew and finished in life-colors 1065 figures, representing 489 species.
            Back in America, Lucy Audubon was teaching school, sometimes in 
                        Louisville
                    , but mostly in 
                        Louisiana
                    . She earned as much as $3,000 a year, supported the family (two boys) and
                    furnished Audubon with the necessary capital to go to Europe. The old principle of division of labor
                    was practiced until fame and money came to Audubon. Not the least influence in the success of the
                    great artist-naturalist was his wife, Lucy Bakewell Audubon. Audubon was a super-salesman. In all he
                    disposed of 165 sets of The Birds of America—82 in America at
                    $1000 per set and 83 in Europe at £182, 14 s. per set. His personality plus
                    his excellent work, enhanced by his beautiful artistry, made a well nigh irresistible appeal. A
                    first edition of The Birds of America now commands a price that ranges from
                    $6,000 to $10,000 or more.12
            
            
               
                  10
                        Ibid., 174.
               
                  11
                        Audubon and Hie Journals, I. 329.
               
                  12 Muschamp, Audubon, 26–77.
            
            
            One day in the late summer of 1818 as he was viewing the Ohio River at 
                        Henderson
                    , Audubon saw a man, with what looked like a hundle of clover on his back, land from a
                    boat. The man handed Audubon a letter of introduction which described the bearer as an "odd
                    fishquot;. It was Constantine Samuel Rafinesque, born in 1784 in Constantinople of a French father
                    and a German-Greek mother.13 The stranger became the guest of Audubon for a few
                    weeks. During the first night of Rafinesque's sojourn, Audubon heard a commotion in his
                    guest's room which, on investigation, turned out to be Rafinesque in action. The visitor in
                    trying to kill some bats for rare specimens had completely demolished Audubon's beloved
                    Cremona violin. In a few weeks, Rafinesque disappeared and Audubon feared for his safety until word
                    was received from the eccentric naturalist. On leaving Audubon, Rafinesque had gone down the 
                        Ohio
                     and up the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                    , reaching the settlement seven years before the Owens arrived. In 1819 Rafinesque
                    accepted the position of teacher of natural history and modern languages at Transylvania
                        University,14 then the most important seat of learning in the West.
            On applying for a master's degree, Rafinesque was at first refused, in his own words,
                    "Because I had not studied Greek in a college although I knew more languages than all the
                    American colleges united." He claimed acquaintance with more than fifty languages. This
                    versatile man was a botanist, chemist, anthropologist, conchologist, archaeologist, and
                    ichthyologist. He believed himself to be the inventor of the present coupon system of issuing bonds.
                    He attempted to patent a "steam plow", a "submarine boat", and
                    "incombustible housesquot;.
            In 1833, a quarter century before Darwin published his work, Rafinesque wrote: "There is a
                    tendency to deviations and mutations through plants and animals by gradual steps at remote irregular
                    periods. This is a part of the great universal law of perpetual mutability in everythingquot;.15
            
            Rafinesque died at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1840 in dire poverty. To prevent the landlord from selling the body, his friends,
                        
                  
                     13 Richard E. Call, Life and Writings of Constantine
                                Samuel Rafinesque (Filson Club Publications, 1895), 3.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid.. 81: Rafinesque, New Flora of North America,
                            quoted In "Notice of Botanical Writings of the late C. S. Rafinesque," American Journal of Science and Arts (April, 1841), XL, 22–41.
                  
                     15 Louis Agassiz, "Notice of a Collection of Fishes from the
                            Southern Bend of the Tennessee River," American
                                Journal of Science and Arts (1854), XVII, 35–55.
               
                     Dr. William Mease and an undertaker named Bringhurst, broke into
                    the room, let the body down out of the window, and buried it in Ronaldson's Cemetery, Ninth
                    and Catherine Streets. Today his resting place is unknown.
            Scientists disagree as to the value of Rafinesque's work. Swainson and Gray thought well of
                    him. Agassiz said he was better than he seemed.16
                    
                        Jordan
                     in his. classification of Ohio River fishes credits Rafinesque
                    with approximately forty-five species.17 The fault of Rafinesque was that he had
                    a quantitative complex. He wanted to know everything and do everything himself regardless of how
                    well it was done. The inevitable result was that he did hardly anything well.
            During Rafinesque's sojourn at 
                        Henderson
                    , Audubon played a practical joke on the credulous scientist. Perhaps Audubon was out of
                    humor because his guest had wrecked his violin. Anyway he told Rafinesque about ten or twelve
                    fabulous fishes that inhabited the Ohio River "further downquot;. One
                    was a sort of monster, four to ten feet long, accustomed to bask lazily in the sun, like a
                    crocodile, and impervious to rifle balls. Rafinesque eagerly seized the descriptions and published
                    them, to the complete consternation of ichthyologists, who have been busy for the ensuing hundred
                    years trying to unravel the tangle. Rafinesque's biographer, Richard E. Call, denounced
                    this bit of horse-play, but after all Audubon was only human.
            It is a curious fact that there was considerable that was fantastic about this science of the
                    frontier. Like gargoyles on a medieval cathedral and like the jesters in Shakespeare's
                    tragedies, this element of the fantastic somehow became part of serious, sober science. Richard Owen
                    drew a geological Map of the Globe, and, using arcs of great circles to bound his imaginary
                    geological areas, he made his map look like a conglomeration of problems in spherical
                        trigonometry.18
            
            But the most bizarre of the fantastic phantasies was the one invented by John Cleves Symmes, nephew
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     land speculator of the same name. Young Symmes conceived the idea that the earth is a
                    hollow sphere, habitable within and widely open at the poles. He wrote, traveled and lectured on
                        
                  
                     16 Quoted from Herbarium Rafinesquianum (1833), 11.
                            15, by Call, Life and Writings of Rafinesque.
                  
                     17 David Starr Jordan, "Review of Rafinesque's
                            Memoirs on North American Fishes," 
                        
                                    United States
                                 National Museum Bulletin, (1877), No. 9, –0.
                  
                     18 Richard Owen, Key to the Geology of the Globe (
                                New York
                            , 1857). See map. facing title-page.
               
                     the subject for ten years, till his death in 1829.
                            
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland
                and 
                        South Carolina
                     petitioned Congress to equip Symmes with an expedition to test the truth of his theory.
                    James Buchanan said before the House that for all he knew there might be a hole at the poles,
                    stating that he had formed no opinion.19
            
            On June 4, 1825, Niles' Register carried the following notice:
                    "John C. Symmes, our countryman who has resolved that the earth is hollow and populated,
                    has accepted an offer of the emperor of Russia, through Count Romanzoff, to make a polar expedition
                    under the patronage of the ‘deliverer’ who has not land enough above ground to
                    satisfy his ambition."20
            
            There were three centers of culture in the old Midwest: 
                        Lexington
                     in the Bluegrass; 
                        Cincinnati
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    ; and 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    . The latter was the Mecca of scientists. Lockwood says Audubon was among the visitors.
                    George Engelman rode horseback from 
                        St. Louis
                    , in February, 1840, only to fail to see the scientists that he hoped to meet there. Sir
                    Charles Lyell, eminent Scotch Geologist, was one of the many European scientists who visited 
                        New Harmony
                     during its golden age. During his second tour of the 
                        United States
                     (184–846), he came by way of 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Mount Vernon
                     (Indiana) and then by stage. In his notes, he says: "We spent several days
                    very agreeably at 
                        New Harmony
                     where we were most hospitably welcomed by Dr. and Mrs. [David] Dale Owen…. I
                    found a good geological collection, both fossils and minerals made during the state
                    survey…. Lectures on Chemistry and geology are given here in the winter."21
            
            The early scientific progress of 
                        Cincinnati
                     centers around Daniel Drake, who was born at 
                  Plainfield, New Jersey
               , on
                    October 20, 1785. His father moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     two years later. There Drake resided till 1800, when the family went to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . During the winter of 182–821, Drake and others were establishing the
                    "Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                    ." The departments were organized as follows: The Institutes and Practice of
                    Medicine, Including Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, Daniel Drake, M.D.; Anatomy and
                    Surgery, 
                  
                     19
                            Cong. Debates, 19 Cong., 2 Sess. (Jan. 15, 1827). 71–14; (Feb.
                            6, 1827), 94–49.
                  
                     20
                            Niles' Register (June 4, 1825), XXVIII, 213.
                  
                     21 Sir Charles Lyell. Second Visit to the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1849), II, 270 ff.
               
                     Jesse Smith, M.D.; Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, Benj. S.
                    Bohrer, M.D.; Chemistry, Elijah Slack, A.M. (President of 
                        Cincinnati
                     College); Assistant in Chemistry, Robert Best (Curator of the Western Museum). One
                    interesting announcement reads: "Medical Jurisprudence will be divided among the professors
                    according to its relations with the different branches which they teach." A quotation from
                    the original manuscript states that "After the termination of the session should a
                    sufficient class be constituted, a course of Botanical Lectures will be delivered, in which the
                    leading object will be to illustrate the medical Botany of the 
                        United States
                    ." Among the reasons for selecting 
                        Cincinnati
                     as a seat of the Medical College were: first, the necessity for such an institution in
                    the West; second, the central situation of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , its northern latitude, its easy water communications, and above all the large
                    population of over 10,000.22
            
            But medical Science in the West had its beginning at old Transylvania College in 
                        Lexington
                    , where, in 1817, the trustees decided to add a school of Medicine. Dr. Benjamin Winslow
                    Dudley from the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was made departmental head and proceeded to organize a faculty. Dudley was tremendously
                    able and correspondingly human. He was a giant in stature and was possessed of a dynamic temper.
                    Unfortunately, Dudley was as facile with a gun as he was with surgical instruments. One of the
                    associate professors was William H. Richardson, typical Kentuckian, scholarly, and of excellent
                    family. During a faculty meeting, Richardson criticized some suggestion of Dudley, whereupon Dudley
                    told him that if he did not keep his mouth shut, he would shoot his d——d head
                    off. Richardson offered to meet him any time, and a duel was arranged. They both fired
                    simultaneously. Richardson missed, but Dudley shot Richardson in the leg and severed the femoral
                    artery. Richardson would have bled to death if Dudley had not ligated the artery. After the
                    operation, the two duelists shook hands and were friends forever.23
            
            In spite of the dueling, Transylvania flourished, and for thirty years was one of the great Medical
                    schools. In 1826 there were 235 students. Dudley was a tower of strength. He 
                  
                     22 Edward Deering Mansfield, Memoirs of the Life and
                                Services of Daniel Drake (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1855).
                  
                     23 Otto Juettner, "Rise of Medical Colleges in the
                                Ohio Valley", 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Publications (1913), XXII, 485.
               
                     performed the operation of lithotomy more than 600 times with
                    only a four per cent mortality, before the days of anaesthesia and clean surgery. During its life
                    which closed about 1860, Transylvania Medical School trained more than 2000 physicians. During the
                    thirties, some of the professors seceded and founded the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute, which was the mother of the different schools finally merged in the
                    Medical Department of the University of 
                        Louisville
                    .24
            
            In the Bluegrass town of 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               , in 1809, Ephraim McDowell performed
                    the first ovariotomy. His boldness gave him a place among the great surgeons of all time. Mrs. Jane
                    Todd Crawford was suffering from internal complications. Two doctors on consultation advised that
                    they send sixty miles for Dr. Ephraim McDowell. He came on horseback with his instruments in his
                    saddlebags. McDowell's examination convinced him that only an operation would save the life
                    of the patient. Mrs. Todd rode back to 
                        Danville
                     for the operation. McDowell's nephew, who had studied in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and a young student assisted in the operation. In twenty-five minutes it was over; in
                    twenty-five days the patient rode home. But the wise ones of 
                        Philadelphia
                     were skeptical, even after McDowell had repeated the operation. Not till 1819, after he
                    had performed four more operations would the world believe him. Easterners were slow to conceive the
                    idea that they could learn anything from a surgeon of the frontier.25
            
            It is only possible to mention William Maclure, who, in 1809, published his Observations
                        on the Geology of the 
                            United States
                        
               , and who became known as the father of American Geology.26
                    He was one of the 
                        New Harmony
                     lights of Science. He also wrote Opinions on Various Subjects, a work
                    of three volumes, which he published in 183–838 at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Agassiz also did important work in the West.27
            
            Thomas Say, who lived from 1787 to 1834, was one of the early scientists of the West who was a
                    natural born American 
                  
                     24 Juettner. "Rise of Medical Colleges," 486.
                  
                     25 Henry Ernest Sigerist, American Medicine (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 89.
                  
                     26 George P. Merrill, The First One Hundred Years of
                                American Geology (
                                New Haven
                            , 1924), 32.
                  
                     27 In 1848, Agassis came from 
                                Harvard
                             to Lake Superior to Brady fishes and glacial phenomena. He
                            discovered and named twenty-four species of fish in the Great Lakes. He
                            reached the conclusion that all fish and other fresh-water animals of the Great
                                Lakes originated there. Thus he held the doctrine of multiple creation; i.e.,
                            animals have originated in their various habitats and have not been distributed. Agassiz
                            also formulated his glacial theory, In part, while on this expedition. Agassiz, 
                                Lake Superior
                             (
                                Boston
                            , 1830), 279 ff., 876.
               
                     citizen. In 1825 he went to 
                        New Harmony
                     to join the distinguished company there gathered. In 1827, he married Lucy Way Sistaire
                    and lived in 
                        New Harmony
                     the rest of his life.28 Say's work was almost wholly
                    taxonomic, and his writings almost wholly descriptive. He published practically nothing of the
                    history of the forms he named. He was early recognized in Europe and was elected to the Linnean
                    Society of 
                        London
                    . His early papers were published in the Journal of the Academy of Natural
                        Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and later ones in the Lyceum of Natural History of 
                        New York
                    . Others were published by Say himself at 
                        New Harmony
                    .29
            
            In 1859 J. L. Le Conte edited and published, in two volumes, The Complete Writings of
                        Thomas Say on the Entomology of North America. Most of the figures of shells were drawn by
                    Mrs. Say. The drawings of insects were chiefly by himself. J. S. Kingsley says that the number of
                    new species which Say described has probably never been exceeded except by two exceedingly careless
                    workers, John Edward Gray and Francis Walker of the British Museum.30 If
                    Kingsley is right, it is not too much to assert that quantitatively, Say was the greatest of
                    entomologists.
            Charles Alexandre Le Sueur was born in Havre, 
                        France
                    , on January 1, 1778.31 In his twenty-third year, he secured by
                    competitive examination a position with the Australian expedition sent out in 1800. Here he formed
                    an acquaintance with Péron. Cuvier credited Péron and Le Sueur with
                    discovering more new species than all the modern naturalists up to their time.32
                    The death of Péron in 1810 and the downfall of Napoleon in 1815, brought sorrow and
                    dejection. So Le Sueur welcomed the invitation to become the traveling companion and co-worker of
                    Maclure, the amateur geologist. Leaving 
                        France
                     in August, 1815, they made a survey of the West Indies and reached 
                        New York
                     in May, 1816. Together they traveled over northeastern 
                        United States
                    . Maclure studied geology, and Le Sueur, fishes. From 181–825, Le Sueur was
                    curator of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . In 1819 he worked for a time on mapping the Northeastern Boundary of the 
                        United States
                    .33 He visited 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1821.
            
               
                  28 Henry B. Weiss and Grace M. Ziegler, Thomas Say (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1931), 134.
               
                  29 L. O. Howard, "Thomas Say," Dictionary
                            of American Biography.
               
                  30 John S. Kingsley, "Sketch of Thomas Say" Popular Science Monthly (Spet, 1882), XXI, 68–91.
               
                  31 Mme. Adrien Loir, Charles Alexandre LeSueur (LeHavre,
                        1920), 9.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., 10.
            
            
            In 1825 Maclure persuaded Le Sueur to go to 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    . There for twelve years, he taught drawing in the community school, and engraved plates
                    for Say's works on conchology and entomology. Traveling with Troost, Say, or alone, from 
                        New Harmony
                     as a base, Le Sueur visited 
                        New Orleans
                     repeatedly, and made trips to 
                        Nashville
                     and the Tennessee Mountains, taking notes, making drawings, and
                    sketching specimens and people.34 Saddened by Say's death and warned by
                    the French government that continued absence might deprive him of his pension, Le Sueur returned to 
                        France
                     in 1837.35 At Havre in 1845, he was made director of the new Museum
                    of Natural History.36 He was one of the first American zoologists to regard
                    every fact so important that it needed to be ascertained and correctly stated. Agassiz considered Le
                    Sueur next to himself the greatest American ichthyologist.
            David Dale Owen, noted member of the Robert Owen family, arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1828. In 1831 he went back to 
                        England
                    , where he studied geology and chemistry at the University of 
                        London
                    . Returning to America, he entered (1832) the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical College at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He spent his summers in arranging and classifying geological specimens for Maclure.
                    After graduating from Medical College in 1836, he accepted the position of state geologist for
                        Indiana.37 Working without assistance, he made his own chemical analyses in
                    a $10,000 laboratory that he had himself established at 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            In 1838 Owen resigned his Indiana position to accept an appointment from James Whitcomb, Federal Land
                    Commissioner, to make a survey of the 
                        Dubuque
                     and Mineral Point districts of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    , an area of about 11,000 suqare miles. He received his commission on August 17, 1839,
                    hired and instructed his 139 assistants, and finished his work on November 14, "a feat of
                    generalship," says Merrill, "which has never been equaled in American Geological
                        History."38 In 1847 Owen was appointed 
                        United States
                     Geologist to survey 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 20.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 61 ff.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 80.
                  
                     36 Le Sueui was the first to study the fishes of our Great
                                Lakes. He published twenty-nine papers on American fishes. The most notable
                            of all his American contributions is a monograph on suckers, a species well known in the
                            middle West.
                  
                     37 Merrill, First One Hundred Years of American
                            Geology, 199.
                  
                            38
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the Chippewa Land District in 
                  Wisconsin, Iowa
                and 
                        Minnesota
                    , a work not finished till 1852.
            As part of the project, Dr. John Evans, under Owen's direction, made the first survey of the
                    Bad Lands of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    . The Report of a Geological Survey of 
                     Wisconsin, Iowa
                  
                        and 
                            Minnesota
                         and Incidentally of a Portion of 
                            Nebraska
                         Territory formed a quarto volume of 628 pages of text with fifteen plates of
                    fossils, nineteen folding sections and a geological map. The fossil illustrations were especially
                    fine for that period. In 1854 Owen was appointed state geologist for 
                        Kentucky
                     and held the position for five years. In 1857 he accepted the position of state
                    geologist for 
                        Arkansas
                     and there virtually worked himself to death. Towards the end, his doctor complained to
                    Owen that he was shortening his life and wouldn't live a week, upon hearing which, Owen
                    said he wanted to live only thirteen days to finish his work.39
            
            David Dale Owen was the first to point out the rich minerals of 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and that the ores of lead and zinc were limited to the magnesian limestone. He was the
                    first to give the name subcarboniferous to the beds immediately under the coal of Indiana. Like
                    other 
                        New Harmony
                     scientists he was an artist. His geological illustrations are exquisite in their
                    artistic beauty. He also embellished his reports with scenic drawings of superb quality. Of the
                    twenty-five plates in Owen's report of 1840, fourteen are from his own drawings. Not only
                    was he an artist, but he used excellent English. Some of his descriptions, in beauty of language,
                    reflect the skill of an able writer of fiction.
            Audubon and Le Sueur were artists recognized abroad. Had the occasion arisen, Owen, would probably
                    have been recognized as an artist in Europe. These artist-scientists had no process of photography.
                    They made their own pictures, and anticipated modern photography in science. Incidentally, in making
                    their own pictures, they linked science with art and gave a double impetus to culture. Audubon was
                    appreciated in Europe before he was recognized in America, and, in Europe, the appreciation was
                    twofold—for his artistic as well as for his scientific work. His election to the Royal
                    Society, and to the Linnaean Society as well, was spontaneous. When the renowned Cuvier saw
                    Audubon's Birds of America, he hailed it as "The greatest monument yet erected to
                        ornithology.40
                    
                  
                            39
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     The artist Redoute was just as enthusiastic as was Cuvier. Said
                    Gerard, the great portrait painter: "Mr. Audubon, you are the king of ornithological
                    painters. We are all children in 
                        France
                     and Europe. Who could have expected such a thing from the woods of
                        America?"41 Thus, did 
                        Paris
                     acknowledge its debt to the American frontier.
            It was in relation to Darwin, however, that Audubon really made history. In his famous books, The Origin of Species and The Descent of Man, Darwin has forty citations to the
                    works of Audubon.42 The same books by Darwin cite Gould forty-five times and
                    Alfred Wallace, sixty-six times.43 Thus, Wallace is the only scientist whom
                    Darwin cites a considerable number of times more than he cites Audubon. And, it should be
                    remembered, that Wallace was, with Darwin, independent co-discoverer of the theory of evolution.
                    Thus the scientific influence of the American frontier on Europe is made manifest. While
                    Audubon's drawings entranced the world, his printed works became a source book for Darwin.
                    With no scientific training, Audubon collected information that made Darwin his debtor in the
                    development of the theory of evolution. If America was not culturally independent of Europe, she was
                    fast making the relation one of interdependence.
            Culturally the West had come into its own. It had demonstrated that it could contribute to the
                    advancement of knowledge. Audubon spent ten years of his life in 
                        Kentucky
                     and six years later went to dazzle and enlighten Europe with his artistry and his
                    knowledge of American bird life. Rafinesque, Le Sueur and Agassiz described and classified the
                    fishes of the West.44 Thomas Say was called the father of American conchology,
                    and accurately described more insects than did any man living. William Maclure and David Dale Owen
                    promoted the science of Geology, and made 
                        New Harmony
                     more justly famous for its science than for its demonstration of the futility of
                    communism on the frontier. McDowell, of 
                  Danville,
                            Kentucky
               , performed the first ovariotomy
                    on record, 
                  
                     40 Herrick, Audubon the Naturalist, I, 1.
                  
                     41
                            Audobon and His Journals, I, 830.
                  
                     42 The reference is to Audubon's published works, especially
                            his Ornithological Biography.
                  
                     43 Charles Darwin, The Origin of Species (
                                New York
                            , 1909 ed.), and The Descent of Man (
                                New York
                            ), 1883 ed.)
                  
                     44 Agassiz also partially formulated his glacial theory on the shores
                            of Lake Superior.
               
                     and required ten years to convince a skeptical world.
                    Transylvania University made 
                        Lexington
                     the "
                        Athens
                     of the West" and became the mother of Medical schools for the West. The record
                    is one of which any frontier might well be proud.
         
         
         
            The Story of Consumer Co-operation in Indiana1
            
            ELSIE SINCLAIR
            
            In telling the story of Consumer Coöperation in Indiana, as, indeed, in telling it of any
                    place, it is natural to start in 
                        England
                     in 1843. For it was there in that year that the basic principles of
                    coöperation were laid down by a group of twenty-eight poor weavers in the Lancashire town
                    of Rochdale. Those principles are now known to the world as the Rochdale System. The idea of
                    coöperation, however, did not originate then; in fact, it is interesting to note that one
                    earlier but unsuccessful attempt of putting the coöperative idea into practice was made
                    by the British social reformer Robert Owen at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, in the years 182–828. The coöperative colony he
                    established there failed in two short years because it was too paternalistic and because it lacked
                    the enthusiastic support of its members. These failings were avoided by the twenty-eight impecunious
                    weavers. It has been said that they "grafted a slip of Owenism on a stock of common
                    sense" and the offspring was the development of a set of Rochdale principles: that
                    membership be open and voluntary and without regard to politics, religion, race, or sex; that one
                    member have one vote; that dividends go to patrons in proportion to patronage; that capital invested
                    receive a low rate of interest; that goods be sold at market price; that reserve funds be set aside
                    from net earnings; and that education in regard to the value of coöperation be promoted.
                    These principles have been adopted, and are being adopted extensively, because they have proved
                    workable and because they have stood the test of time, with individual members finding themselves
                    better off.
            It may not be amiss here to make clear what the subject, Consumer Coöperatives, involves.
                    Often there is confusion between the terms "producer coöperatives and consumer
                    coöperatives." The term "coöperatives" includes
                    both, but which is which and where is the line drawn? Marketing coöperatives, as for
                    example the Indiana Wool Pool, the Producers Commission Association at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     stock yards, or the Farmers' Creamery at 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, are organized to sell produce collectively, and are, therefore, producer
                    coöperatives. 
                  
                     1 This article was read before one of the sessions of the annual
                            Indiana History Conference in 
                                Indianapolis
                             at the Hotel Lincoln on December 11, 1936.
               
                     There are also organizations whose purpose is to buy
                    collectively. Strictly speaking it depends on what they buy whether they are consumer or producer
                    coöperatives. If they buy consumer goods, such as groceries, they should be known as
                    consumer coöperatives. If they buy producer goods, such as fertilizer or twine or other
                    supplies used in agricultural production, they should be known as producer coöperatives.
                    Actually, the latter are often miscalled "consumer coöperatives," and
                    they are to be included under that term in this paper. They are the coöperatives under
                    the Farm Bureau, the others to be examined are true consumer coöperatives.
            Recent as it is, the story of the Farm Bureau coöperatives is older than any other in the
                    state. In 1920 the Indiana Farm Bureau, which was then one year old, established a joint
                    coöperative purchasing department in collaboration with other farm agencies throughout
                    the state for collectively bargaining for twine and fertilizer. In 1923 the Bureau established its
                    own purchasing department, which in 1927, when they discovered and applied the Rochdale principles,
                    became the Indiana Farm Bureau Coöperative Association. By Indiana law, that association
                    is open only to farmers. Today its membership is 50,000 with 50,000 more earning membership by
                    accumulating patronage dividends with which to buy stock. There are eighty-nine autonomous county
                    units which form ten districts in the state, which in turn form the state wholesale association. The
                    latter in its turn is a part of the national wholesale association, National
                    Coöperatives, Inc.
            In the period between 192–927, two noteworthy things happened. The first shows how a
                    coöperative's scope widens. The organized farmers in 1923 wanted a lower price
                    from the manufacturers of fertilizer. They bargained collectively for it, but to no avail. They
                    instigated a buyers' strike with no success. The situation was at an impasse, when, "out of the blue," a copper mine operator from 
                        Tennessee
                     appeared. He was burdened with a by-product, sulphur, from smelting his copper ore.
                    Sulphur fumes from his chimneys had destroyed plant life in the neighborhood, so the 
                        United States
                     Government stepped in and ordered him to trap them and abate the nuisance. He
                    obediently trapped the fumes, added steam, and disposed of the resultant sulphuric acid down the
                    creeks and rivers. Then the fish died and the streams became polluted.  The Isaac Walton League protested. At this point, he turned to the
                    organized farmers and offered them the sulphuric acid for manufacturing fertilizer. The result was
                    an agreement between the farmers of Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    , and the copper mine operator, who now manufactures fertilizer which is distributed by
                    the Farm Bureaus of the three states.
            The second episode of the 192–927 period illustrates the importance of the Rochdale
                    principles of democratic control. Ten coöperative chain stores were set up over the state
                    to handle farm supplies. Each store was managed by a local manager who was hired by and responsible
                    to a general manager in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The farmer members who were to be benefited had no part in the control of the stores,
                    and correspondingly little interest in them. The local managers took their jobs pretty lightly, so
                    that by 1926, instead of patronage dividends to be divided, there was a deficit of
                    $12,000. Reorganization had to take place.
            It was at this time that I. H. Hull, present General Manager of the Farm Bureau
                    Coöperative Association, the late Lewis Taylor the leading light of Indiana's
                    coöperative movement, and the late James K. Mason came upon the story of the Rochdale
                    weavers. The result was the incorporation of the Indiana Farm Bureau Coöperative
                    Association, the wholesale unit which negotiates purchase contracts for its member associations.
            The members are the eighty-nine separate, autonomous county units, each with its own board of
                    directors and a manager chosen by the board and responsible to it. From their state organization the
                    farmers now buy at wholesale, and sell to themselves at the market price through their county units.
                    The savings are either returned to them or left in the business in return for common stock, as the
                    individual members may decide. Generally it is the latter.
            In speaking of consumer coöperatives, it comes out sooner or later that one of their
                    reasons for being is a desire to know that their purchases be of specified quality, with full weight
                    and full measure. The Indiana farmers in 1930 found themselves in the oil blending business because
                    they had been unable to get satisfaction from the commercial companies, the quality of whose oil,
                    they contended, fluctuated with prices. Since 1827 the state organization had been distributing to
                    the counties petroleum products purchased under contract from 
                    the oil companies. They knew that the life of farm machinery is lengthened by use of high grade
                    lubricating oils, and by 1930 they decided that the surest guarantee for high quality was to make
                    their own oil. Consequently, the state organization bought a building on 
                        Kentucky
                     Avenue in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and turned it into an oil compounding plant which operates under the supervision of a
                    chemist. The coöperatives of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     have since become partners, and the Farm Bureau Oil Company, as it is called, now
                    blends quantities of oil of known quality.
            These examples of the activities of the farmers' organization by no means exhaust the list.
                    They deal in farm machinery, as well, operate eleven chicken hatcheries, which have cut down the
                    mortality rate of baby chickens, are sponsoring the Rural Electrification program of the government,
                    and will distribute power coöperatively. In fact, they have their fingers in many pies.
            One offshoot of the Farm Bureau is Coöperative Services, Inc., which is a true consumer
                    coöperative dealing in consumer goods. It is incorporated separately and the only real
                    connection it has with the Farm Bureau is that it buys from it wholesale, and its fifteen original
                    members were employees of the Farm Bureau office in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In other words the impetus for it came from people familiar with the methods of
                    coöperatives. Today, three years after its beginnings, there are 250 members of which
                    only one-fifth are connected with the Farm Bureau. They own two gasoline stations in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , they sell coal and coke to themselves, and also canned tomatoes and flour. The
                    gasoline and coal are purchased from the Farm Bureau Coöperative Association at wholesale
                    prices, the coke from a commercial company, the tomatoes from the coöperative cannery in 
                        Spencer County
                    , and the flour from the Farm Bureau Mill at 
                        Auburn
                    . By the end of 1936 this organization had done approximately $85,000 worth
                    of business, and distributed $5,000 to its patron members throughout the year at
                    intervals of three months. (Generally patronage dividends are distributed annually—they
                    involve tremendous amounts of labor and time in bookkeeping. Nevertheless the bookkeeping and
                    auditing are carefully and regularly done).
            Another urban consumer coöperative in Indiana, but one which grew up independently of the
                    Farm Bureau Coöperative  Association, is that owned
                    and run by the Negroes of Gary. When the depression came along the unskilled workers in the steel
                    mills in 
                        Gary
                     were hard hit. Many of them were Negroes. By 1932 one-half of the 20,000 who lived
                    there were on relief. One of them, a school teacher named Reddix decided to try doing something
                    about it. He gathered thirty Negroes together in a group for the purpose of studying economic
                    problems. At the time, they knew nothing of consumer coöperation, but shortly after the
                    group had been organized, they heard of it. Mr. Reddix was sent as a delegate to the Consumer
                    coöperative Conference sponsored by the National coöperative League, which
                    maintains the educational headquarters of coöperatives in America, to learn about them.
                    After he returned, and after the thirty members had absorbed the principles of consumer
                    coöperation, they collected $24.00 and started a buying club for groceries.
                    They pooled their orders for groceries, and bargained collectively to fill them. By the end of the
                    year they had acquired a ramshackle store and operated as the "Consumer
                    coöperative Trading Company." In the course of the years since then, their
                    business has expanded to $35,000 by keeping most of the earnings in the business, and
                    they now have a modern store on one of the main streets. One interesting and typical feature is that
                    they have developed leaders from among the ranks. They have mapped out a plan for the next five
                    years to open three more stores, to establish a credit union, a bakery, a milk distribution plant, a
                    filling station, a farm resort, and an insurance organization. The membership is now over 400.
            A word should be said here about credit unions. There are numerous industrial credit unions, and the
                    Farm Bureau has a Credit Union Department. They are consumer coöperatives in the sense
                    that they are non-profit organizations conducted for the benefit of their members. However, their
                    membership is naturally limited, in industry, to the employees, and, in the Farm Bureau, to its
                    members. But wherever consumer coöperatives have developed to any extent, credit unions,
                    such as the one planned at 
                        Gary
                    , have followed in their wake, and, if and as they develop in Indiana, an increase may
                    well be expected in credit unions. The advantages of such unions are a lower rate of interest on
                    loans, and usually the acceptance of character as security or the basis of credit.
            
            Consumer coöperatives in Indiana are, on the whole, so sparse and so new that it is
                    impossible to evaluate the movement here. There are two grocery coöperatives in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the process of incubation—one in the neighborhood of 
                        Butler
                     College and another in 
                        Irvington
                    . There is the coöperative Trading Association, with a stand at the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Market, which is functioning at present. There is an organization in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, selling groceries which are purchased from the large coöperative
                    wholesale in 
                        Chicago
                    . There is a coöperative book store in 
                        York
                     Township, 
                        Noble County
                    , run and owned by the teachers and pupils of a grade school. There is a one year old
                    coöperative house at Purdue University where the students have cut living expenses in
                    half by jointly renting the house and taking turns peeling the potatoes and doing the other chores.
            In spite of this list, though, consumer coöperatives in Indiana are not very far advanced.
                    In speaking of all coöperatives, producers and consumers, it may be said the producers,
                    that is, the farmers, are far ahead of the consumers in Indiana. This is pretty generally true of
                    all the Middle West. A fillip was given to the consumer coöperative movement last year by
                    the visit to this country of the great exponent of the movement, Kagawa, the Japanese Christian.
                    Now, to some extent, the churches in Indiana, both Protestant and Catholic, are encouraging study of
                    coöperation among their groups because they approve the spirit of it, and because they
                    see in it a more abundant life.
            One great emphasis, from the time of the Rochdale weavers to the present, has been on study and
                    education. Funds accumulated from the sale of goods to non-members are customarily used for
                    educational purposes, as well as reserves set aside from membership earnings. In 
                        Noble County
                    , these funds have been used for two years for summer schools to train leaders, who, in
                    the winter organize study clubs in the various townships. In general, however, programs for
                    education and recreation throughout the state are not well developed. Of course, literature may be
                    obtained without much difficulty because coöperative organizations are eager to spread a
                    knowledge of the system. In the literature, there is always a keynote of caution to groups, who are
                    urged to know the system and its principles before taking steps. They feel that knowledge and
                    understanding cannot be overemphasized.
            
            Europeans have called America a "barren coöperative desert", but there
                    have been these recent signs of growth, such as we have seen in Indiana, which may alter their idea.
                    Whether or not the desert will eventually become a land flowing with coöperative milk and
                    honey, it is not within the province of this paper to forecast.2
            
            
               
                  2 The information on which this account is based was obtained from a
                        number of published pamphlets, issued by various coöperatives, and through visits to
                        the several coöperatives of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . The visits that brought the largest returns were those to the Farm Bureau.
            
         
         
         
            Shirl Herr
            THEODORE G. GRONERT
            
            Shirl Herr, President of the 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society, died at his home in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     on October 1, 1936. Only those closely associated with him in his career as an
                    inventor, a philanthropist and an amateur historian can appreciate the full extent of the loss the
                    community and the state suffers in his passing.
            Mr. Herr was born in Lapland, Indiana, on April 21, 1875. His parents were pioneers of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    -German stock, who came to Indiana after a period of residence in 
                        Ohio
                    . Mr. Herr's youth was spent on a farm in 
                        Boone County
                    , to which his parents removed in the seventies. The Herr homestead, a large two story
                    log cabin, now stands in the Public Park of 
                        Lebanon
                    , a permanent monument of pioneer Indiana preserved through the efforts of the D.A.R. of
                    that community.
            Shirl Herr's formal education included the completion of a district school course and a few
                    terms in the 
                        Lebanon
                     High School. In addition to this formal training, he achieved much in the way of
                    self-education, especially in the science of agriculture. Seed selection in its relation to plant
                    culture was always of great interest to him and this interest led him to seek employment with one of
                    the outstanding seed companies of the Middle West, the Crabb Reynolds Company of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .
            Mr. Herr came to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1906, and, after Corking for the Crabb Reynolds Company for some years, he became
                    interested in the organization of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Seed Company. It was during the apprenticeship period in the seed industry, that Mr.
                    Herr married Miss Sarah Remley, daughter of another well known pioneer family. Mrs. Herr shared her
                    husband's interest in pioneer Indiana, and, through her, the family influence in the
                    activities of the local historical society has been continued.
            Shirl Herr's contributions to the seed industry were of first importance. He not only
                    improved but originated devices for the cleaning of seeds, and, up to the time of death, he was
                    working on methods to make seed winnowing more effective.
            
            Business was not his sole pre-occupation. He was a trustee of the 
                        Wabash
                     Avenue Presbyterian Church, served in practically every organization interested in
                    community welfare, and was President of the Board when the new County Hospital building was erected
                    in 1929. His outstanding public service was recognized by the Kiwanis Club when he was presented
                    with an award as the most useful citizen.
            This memorial must perforce devote most of its space to his historical activities, but the demands of
                    space and time are not so pressing that we can pass without notice the services of Shirl Herr as a
                    citizen and scientist. He was a philanthropist in the finest sense of the word, for he gave to his
                    benefactions not merely his time and his money but himself. As chairman of the Hospital Board, he
                    had a foremost place in making the County Hospital one of the most efficient county hospitals in
                    Indiana, and, to the day of his death, he was following its fortunes with unwavering interest.
            To the world outside his immediate community, he is known as the inventor of the magnetic
                    balance—a device for locating underground minerals and metals. This instrument, he used
                    to locate the exact site of the Ouiatenon battlefield, and with it he retrieved metal aritifacts
                    from the battleground at Fort Necessity, Yorktown and other historic sites, including Jamestown and
                    Fort Niagra. The "balance" was also used by Mr. Herr when he was commissioned by
                    the Italian government to locate a Roman galley hidden beneath the waters of Lake
                    Nemi, and Thomas Poulter, second in command of the Byrd Expedition, found it a very
                    valuable addition to the scientific equipment of that expedition. These important scientific
                    accomplishments were not generally known, for Mr. Herr was unusually modest and reticent about his
                    achievements, whether such achievements had national or merely local significance.
            The members of the 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society knew him largely through his activity in saving and restoring Lane Place. This activity engaged all the time he could spare from his business
                    and his duties on the Hospital Board. From the time he was elected President of the Society, Mr.
                    Herr gave himself whole-heartedly to the task of preserving Lane Place. He won the
                    support of the City Council and Administrative officials, and through them the City bought up the
                    mortgage on the historic home. The building was transferred 
                    under a long term lease to the County Historical Society, with the proviso that the organization
                    refurnish the house and convert it into a memorial. To the very difficult task involved in meeting
                    this requirement, Shirl Herr brought a patience and energy that was an inspiration to those who
                    worked with him. Family heirlooms were returned and restored, materials reminiscent of the
                    Lincoln-Lane association were collected, and period furniture was obtained, as gifts or loans, to
                    fill in the gaps left when the family furnishings did not suffice. The collection for the pioneer
                    room was completed and Mr. Herr built up a representative exhibit of glassware as part of the Herr
                    Loan Collection to the Museum.
            It was this enthusiastic activity that won from his fellow-workers the recognition of Mr. Herr as an
                    amateur historian. This man with no particular historical training but with a traditional pioneer
                    background became, in a very real sense, the amateur historian—the lover of history.
                    Citizens of the larger world will remember him for his scientific achievements. Citizens of Indiana
                    may know him as a philanthropist and civic leader. The members of the 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society, while not forgetful of these services, will also remember him as
                    one who cherished the pioneer traditions of Indiana and will recognize the fact that, in saving Lane Place, Shirl Herr not only preserved a permanent memorial to one of
                    Indiana's pioneer statesman, but furnished an example that should be an inspiration to all
                    those who are striving to save for posterity the memorials of our "living
                past."
         
         
         
            A Hoosier Barn that was a Church
            JANICE RUDD
            
            It is just an everyday sort of barn of unpretentious character that one finds near La Fontaine,1 Indiana, but the building was once a haven of pioneer worship. This building
                    was originally erected in 1845, and was known as the Antioch Baptist Church. For thirteen years
                    following its construction, no records were kept by the congregation. In the first minutes, there is
                    an entry indicating that Elder John Sparks preached his first sermon in the Church on December
                    1,1858; his last sermon was delivered in November, 1862. He died in March, 1863.
            Elder Sparks, first preacher whose name appears in the records, settled in 
                        Wabash County
                    , Indiana, in 1853, having come from 
                        South Carolina
                    . He purchased land near the little town of America, which later disappeared. He was a
                    brother of William Sparks, Baptist minister at the old log church of Cedar Grove, and uncle of
                    William Sparks, the second, who was also a pioneer Baptist preacher. Elizabeth Harlan, who became
                    the wife of Elder John Sparks, was also from 
                        South Carolina
                    . She came to Indiana with her parents in 1814.2
            
            The right to use the land on which the Antioch Church was built was granted without cost by Benjamin
                    Lines, a member of the congregation. His farm was mortgaged, and he lost it, but it was later bought
                    by Coon Lines, who sold the church site to the trustees for twenty-five dollars.
            The members of the Church as shown by the earliest records were: Thomas Lyons and wife, Elizabeth;
                    William R. Richards and wife, Rosena; Isaac Blades and wife, Martha; Silas Lines; Conrad Sellars and
                    wife, Chaterine; Harry Scott; Susan Sailers; Tobitha Frazee; Alfred Lines; and Benjamin Lines.
            Discontinued as a place of worship in 1883, the old Church was used as a dwelling by several
                    different families for a time. In 1903 the lot was purchased by the present owner, Mrs. Effie
                    Williams, great-granddaughter of Elder John Sparks. It was at this time that the old house of
                    worship was turned into a barn. The building was moved farther 
                  
                     1 The town of LaFontaine is in the southeastern part of 
                                Wabash County
                            , on Grant Creek, a tributary of the Mississainews. The earlier name of the town
                            was Ashland.
                  
                     2 The author of this article has a picture of Elder John Sparks taken
                            when he was about thirty yean of age, and a picture of his widow in her old age.
               
                     back on the lot, and a house built where it had stood. The roof
                    of the building was raised, some new siding used, and doors and windows changed.
            The present building reveals clearly the location of the two church doors at one end of the
                        building.3 One of these doors served as an entrance for the women of the
                    congregation, the other for the men, since they sat on opposite sides of the room. One of the doors
                    is boarded up completely. The other is closed part way, leaving room for a single window-sash above.
                    There is a shed on one side of the building. An inspection of the end opposite the old Church doors
                    and of the side opposite the shed, where none of the old siding of the Church remains, suggests
                    nothing whatever except a present day barn of modest size.
            The old Antioch Baptist Church which served a pioneer community for nearly forty years can be
                    recognized only on close inspection. The paths to its doors were once well trodden by the feet of
                    eager, believing persons. These paths were obliterated a number of, years ago, and the surroundings
                    changed. The members of the original congregation have all passed away, but the descendants of those
                    original members cherish the fast-fading picture of the old Church, as it was before the
                    transformation into the present-day barn. They think of it with reverence as a shrine of pioneer
                        worship.3
            
            
               
                  3 The author is a descendant of a brother of Elder John Sparks.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            It is a pleasure to announce that the Documents described by Dr. Harvey Wish in the last previous
                    number of the Indiana Magazine of History (Volume 32, pp. 36–69), have
                    been sent from the 
                        United States
                     Courthouse Building, 
                        Chicago
                    , to the Division of Archives in the Indiana State Library. At the instance of the
                    Indiana Historical Society, Governor Paul V. McNutt and Governor M. Clifford Townsend, Judge Will N.
                    Sparks, of the Seventh Circuit 
                        United States
                     Court of Appeals, secured them, had them packed, and sent by express early in February.
                    They will shortly be available for accredited research. Needless to say, they form an important
                    supplement to the papers of Indiana executives, especially those of Governor Oliver P. Morton,
                    already in the Archives.
            No authoritative explanation can be given of their presence in 
                        Chicago
                    . The building in which they had been stored—one might almost say
                    junked—was long both the Post Office and the Federal Court Building of 
                        Chicago
                    . The most plausible explanation is that they were used by William Robeson Holloway for
                    work upon the life of Oliver P. Morton, and that Mr. Holloway intended to make further use of them.
                    He had studied law with Morton at 
                        Centerville
                     and was his private secretary from 1861 to 1864. Mr. Holloway helped William Dudley
                    Foulke in his well-known Life of Oliver P. Morton, was the author of A History of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               , and did a good deal of other historical work. His son, Edward M. Holloway,
                    was clerk of the federal court in 
                        Chicago
                     in or about 1905, six years before his father's death. It seems probable that
                    the documents in question were kept in the Federal Building, pending an intended use of them which
                    never materialized.
            
               Indiana Imprints 180–849, a supplement to Mary Alden Walker's
                        Beginnings of Printing in the State of Indiana (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , 1934), was issued February 4 as Number 5, Volume XI of the Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications. Douglas C. McMurtrie of 
                        Chicago
                    , the author, lists over three hundred items with collation of the title pages. The
                    brief introductory note, among other things, gives a list of printers  "not in Walker." It should be noted that many of the
                    new items are broadsides, which Miss Walker expressly excluded from her list.
            Mr. McMurtrie has published many valuable articles and pamphlets upon early printing in most of the
                    central and western states. It is a cause of congratulation that he has worked over the field in
                    Indiana. The number of imprints discovered is of interest. Several items were found during the
                    printing of this publication. It is quite certain that additional early imprints will be discovered
                    from time to time. The Society will be grateful for information about any such publications. Mr.
                    McMurtrie's study finishes Volume XI. The Index to Volume XI is being prepared and will be
                    distributed on request without charge. Charles N. Thompson's William and John
                        Conner is also being prepared for the press. It is listed as Number 1, Volume XII.
            Mr. J. K. Lilly, Jr., has presented the Smith Library with the sixteen-volume Homestead Edition of
                    Riley's Poems and Prose Sketches. The set is one of two hundred four
                    printed on 
                        Japan
                     paper, and it is an outstanding example of fine book-making in the library's
                    collection. The work of J. J. Daniels, the well-known 
                        Parke County
                     builder of covered bridges, is represented by a number of drawings and documents given
                    by his son, Mr. Parke Daniels. This is a most useful addition to the information on Indiana covered
                    bridges now being collected by the Historical Society. Similar documentary material on both bridges
                    and old water-mills will be welcomed by the Society.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            A GLANCE AT INDIANA HISTORY
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Indiana Territory, comprising a vast area far beyond the present limits of the state, was organized
                    in 1800. Admission to the Union came in 1816. Short indeed was the period when the colonists were
                    under the jurisdiction of a distant government on the Potomac. Outside the 
                        Vincennes
                     tract, the civilization to be found in Indiana when statehood was conferred was very
                    young and crude. The villages and farms, where lived nearly all of the meager population shown by
                    the territorial census of 1815, had only very recently been started. In short, for the first time in
                    the history of the world, the institutions of civilized people were being established on the soil of
                    frontier Indiana.
            For a number of years, after admission to the Union, Indiana remained a frontier colony of the older
                    part of the 
                        United States
                     in all respects save in the matter of government. For a long time colonists flowed into
                    the young commonwealth while a very few left for still newer areas. They came from
                            
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, Kentucky
                and 
                        Ohio
                    , with very small contingents from any of the other older states. Foreigners, especially
                    Irish and Germans, swelled the stream somewhat, but, during the period of colonization, Indiana did
                    not receive foreigners in such proportions as did 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Michigan
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . This unusual fact caused Indiana to develop into a state quite different from the
                    other states of the Old Northwest in time. However, in the period prior to the great war between
                    North and South, Indiana was, in the main, a typical western state.
            By 1850, while colonists still flowed into Indiana, there was already a large movement away to newer
                    areas. These migrating Hoosiers went in great numbers to 
                        Illinois
                    , to 
                        Iowa
                    , to 
                        Missouri
                    , to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and to 
                        Kansas
                     Territory. While 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     each sent vastly more colonists to other frontier areas than to 
                        Kansas
                     between 1854 and 1860, it was, nevertheless, these three northwestern states that
                    contributed the greatest contingent of settlers to 
                        Kansas
                     during the strenuous conflict for the control of that territory. The census of 1860
                    shows more than 30,000 men, women and  children in 
                        Kansas
                     territory who were born in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     together, and less than 28,000 who were born in all of the slaveholding area of the 
                        United States
                    . The same census reveals that there were but 4,208 persons who were born in the six
                    states of 
                        New England
                     and actually living in 
                        Kansas
                     in 1860. 
                  Pennsylvania, New Jersey
                and 
                        New York
                    , show a greater aggregate than 
                        New England
                    , but far fewer than the total from 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , the total from these three middle Atlantic states in 
                        Kansas
                     in 1860 being 13,593.
            During the half-century before the Civil War, Indiana was a great producer of hogs. In fact, it is
                    hardly too much to say that the early and rapid progress of civilization in the state was due to the
                    opportunity to produce swine extensively. For years, hams, shoulders, bacon and lard went to the
                    plantations of the deep South in great quantities, these products contributing much to the great
                    river traffic of the times. In the last period before the War, wheat rose to a place of high
                    importance, but much of this crop went eastward to market from the new wheat areas of the Old
                    Northwest. In 1850 the order of the upper five states in hog production was: 
                  Tennessee, Kentucky
               , Indiana, 
                  Georgia, Ohio
               . In 1860, the order was: Indiana,
                            
                  Illinois, Tennessee, Missouri, Kentucky
               . The states ranked as follows in wheat production in
                    1850: 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York, Virginia, Illinois
               . The rank in 1860, shows quite a change: 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Wisconsin, Ohio
               , and then 
                        Virginia
                    , with 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in sixth place.
            Like other growing western states, Indiana gained in the number of Representatives in the national
                    House and also in importance in the electoral college. In the apportionment following the census of
                    1850, eleven members were assigned to Indiana in the lower branch of Congress. This placed the state
                    in a position of equality in regard to 
                        Massachusetts
                    , leaving only three of the original states, 
                  New York, Pennsylvania
                and 
                        Virginia
                    , ahead in the national House. Of the new states, 
                        Ohio
                     only, surpassed Indiana, while all others were behind. In the last decade before the
                    Civil War, the economic and political position of Indiana was high among the states of the Union.
                    This exalted relative rank, it has not been possible for the state to maintain in the great age of
                    transition through which the country has passed since 1865, but the  place is still high, and it is entirely possible that the relative
                    position of Indiana among the states may advance considerably in the next generation.
            These facts are recorded in order to convince teachers of history that Indiana has had an interesting
                    development—so interesting and significant that no teacher can afford to ignore the
                    history of the state. The problems of 
                  Virginia,
                            Massachusetts
                and other British
                    provinces of the colonial period can be illustrated and explained by the experiences of the pioneers
                    who colonized Indiana. Likewise, the study of the establishment and development of civilization in
                    Indiana or in any other state of the trans-Appalachian region can be enriched and made
                    understandable by comparing and contrasting the similar establishment and growth of social, economic
                    and political institutions in the British colonies of the period before 1775.
            Nothing is easier to miss than the very significant fact that the greater part of the 
                        United States
                     is not far away from the period of colonization. To consider the problems of the
                    country without due emphasis on this fact, means to misunderstand many of those problems. Much of
                    our strength goes back to the frontier era, but also many of the problems of today are difficult or
                    impossible of solution because of the rigid adherence to notions that became firmly fixed in the
                    pioneer period—notions that will not work in the complex situations of today.
         
         
         
            Documents
            CIVIL WAR LETTERS AND DISPATCHES
            Edited by HARVEY WISH
            
            In the December issue of the Indiana Magazine of History, a descriptive account of
                    certain newly discovered Indiana documents at 
                        Chicago
                     was presented by the writer.1 This collection of the official
                    correspondence of Indiana's governors from 1840 to 1867 pertains chiefly to the
                    administration of Governor Oliver Perry Morton. The following documents are more representative of
                    the political material than of the adadministrative files, which constitute the larger part of the
                    collection. These letters and dispatches reveal, in an intimate way, certain aspects of
                    Indiana's problems during the Civil War concerning contraband trade, defeatist
                    organizations, such as the Knights of the Golden Circle, and other important political questions of
                    that era.2 Many of the details given here are entirely new in that they do not
                    appear in the numerous publications dealing with Indiana's history from 186–865.
            [LETTERS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Office of the Secretary of State,
                              
                                 
                                    Frankfort
                                  [
                                    Kentucky
                                 ],
                           
                                    June 14, 1861
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        Information is received at the Executive Department of this state that one hundred
                                    bags of coffee shipped from 
                                        Baltimore
                                     to Messrs. Buchanan & Co., 
                                        Louisville
                                    , is now detained at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     by a vigilance committee or some other such authority. It is presumed
                                    that this 
                              
                                 1 The discovery of Indiana archival material in 
                                                Chicago
                                            , as described in the December issue, was made by the 
                                                Illinois
                                             unit of the Survey of Federal Archives directed, in that state,
                                            by Dr. Russell H, Anderson, and sponsored by both the National Archives and
                                            the Works Progress Administration. Acknowledgments are due to Dr. Philip M.
                                            Harner, National Director of the Survey, and Chief of the Division of the
                                            Library, National Archives, for his support and guidance of this and similar
                                            projects throughout the country. This collection was transferred to the
                                            Indiana State Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, in January, 1937.
                              
                                            
                                    2 From a recent interview with Mr. Frederick G.
                                                Campbell, Clerk of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Circuit Court of Appeals at 
                                                    Chicago
                                                 and a former resident of 
                                                    Tippecanoe County
                                                , Indiana, several important facts concerning the provenance
                                                of the documents were obtained. When the Court was first organized in
                                                1891, both Oliver Perry Morton, son of the Indiana Governor, and Edward
                                                Morton Holloway, a grand-nephew, were employed in its offices in the old
                                                Federal Building on the present site of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Courthouse (also known as Federal Building). at Clark and
                                                Adams Streets, 
                                                    Chicago
                                                .
                                            Mr. 
                                                    Campbell
                                                 came to 
                                                    Chicago
                                                 in 1899 to take up his work in the office of the Clerk of
                                                the Circuit Court of Appeals, then located temporarily in the Monadnock
                                                Building while the new Federal Court House was in the process of
                                                construction. Edward M. Holloway was then the Clerk and also the
                                                custodian of a large amount of Indiana archival documents which were
                                                kept in the office. His father. Colonel William R. Holloway, formerly
                                                Private Secretary to Governor Morton, came frequently to peruse the
                                                material, evidently with the intention of writing upon some aspects of
                                                Indiana history. He had already collaborated with William D. Foulke upon
                                                a biography of Governor Morton, but expected to complete an independent
                                                work of his own—a hope never realized. Whether he or the
                                                younger Morton was responsible for the transfer of the Indiana documents
                                                to 
                                                    Chicago
                                                 could not be determined by the writer. When the
                                                Clerk's office was reestablished in the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Courthouse, about 1902, the documents were packed away in
                                                the huge dome and soon forgotten.
                                        
                           
                                     infraction of private rights has been
                                    perpetrated without your knowledge or consent and that your attention need only be
                                    called to this wrong to secure prompt remedy. I am therefore instructed by Governor
                                        Magoffin3 to call your attention to the fact and await your
                                    action.
                        
                                    Very Resp.,
                                    Tho. B. Monroe, Jr.
                                    Secy, of State
                                
                        To Gov. O. P. Morton, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 ,
                           
                                    June 20, 1861
                                
                        Wm. H. Schlater, Esq.,4
                        
                        Dear Sir:
                        Yours of the 18th inst. enclosing copy of T. B. Monroe's of the 14th is at
                                    hand. Mr. Buchanan applied to me some time ago as a lawyer to
                                    endeavor to get his coffee for him. I then told him that if he would give me
                                    satisfactory assurances that the coffee should be sold only for home consumption
                                    that I would go out and get his coffee for him without fee or reward. This he
                                    declined to do and I declined taking any step for him.
                        
                           The coffee is undoubtedly intended for the southern market. It
                                    strikes me that the best course would be to let the coffee come to 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     and then be seized by the collector. That places the matter in the
                                    hands of the U. S. government and releases Gov. Morton from all responsibility on
                                    the subject.
                        There is no fear of the collector at 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     failing in his duty. If he errs at all it will be the other way.
                                    Messrs. Buchanan & Co. are secessionists, but they are gentlemen whose
                                    promises would be held sacred and if they gave assurances that the coffee should be
                                    sold only for home consumption in 
                                        Ky.
                                    , I would not hesitate to let it pass.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    Thos. W. Gibson5
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Aurora
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    Aug. 1st, 1861
                                
                        Gov. O. P. Morton,
                        
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Ind.
                        Dr Sir we deem it our duty to inform you that for some time past the 
                                        Madison
                                     Packets have been bringing Bacon and Mess Pork from Cinti [
                                        Cincinnati
                                    ] to this place and leaving it on the wharfboat where it remains a day
                                    or two, when the 
                                        Louisville
                                     Boats take it below. And that there is something wrong about it is
                                    evident from the fact that it is not shipped direct to its destination. Some of it
                                    is directed to citizens 
                              
                                 3 The well-known secessionist sympathies of Governor
                                            Beriah Magoffin of 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and his persistent attempts to preserve the
                                            "neutrality" of his state during: the early part of the
                                            Civil War created special difficulties for Governor Morton who was called
                                            upon to organize the Union sentiment of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . The contraband problem was but one phase in the duel between
                                            the two governors.
                              
                                 4 Secretary to Governor Morton.
                              
                                 5 A military agent for Governor Morton. Many of
                                            Gibson's letters, as well as those of other agents whose reports
                                            are included in the collection, reveal the detailed events at the front and
                                            behind the lines.
                           
                                     of this place but is never hauled up town. We do
                                    not wish to act without authority but we are determined that Provissions shall not
                                    be carried through our place to Secessiondom.
                        By directing your attention to the above you will oblige many citizens and the
                                    subscribers.
                        
                                    Your Obt. Svts.
                                    W. P. Squibb & Co.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    Aug. 26/61
                                
                        Gov. Morton—
                        Dear Sir—
                        Feeling it to be my duty under existing circumstances, and in obedience to the laws
                                    of our country, to give all the information in my possession to arrest the progress
                                    of traitors and to bring to justice all offenders, I beg to call your most earnest
                                    attention to the following case which I hope and trust you will take immediate steps
                                    to ferret out:
                        About the middle of May last, Carey W. Barbour and Wolsey Barbour6 of this county, loaded two flat boats at their landing above the city, and
                                    dropt down to this city where they completed their loading. The freight consisted of
                                    corn, hay, oats, bacon, etc. and was designed for a house in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     that had advanced $2000, on the load. Our citizens, learning
                                    these facts, and hearing that the boats were ready to cut loose from their moorings,
                                    repaired to the river in a body and took off the oars, tied up the boats and told
                                    the Barbours that the boats must not be sent out. Their reply was that they would do
                                    as they pleased about the matter,—they had received $2000, on
                                    the load and were bound to make their contract good. In about ten days after this,
                                    in the dead of night the boats were cut loose, manned by three or four noted
                                    sympathizers of this city. The impression was created by this crew after their
                                    return that the boats were unloaded at 
                                        Cairo
                                    , for the army at that point. Not satisfied with this, I refered to the
                                    matter several times through my paper [The Atlas] and demanded an
                                    explanation. To one of these notices the Journal replied that the two boats were
                                    unloaded at Smythland, 
                                        Ky.
                                    , and the loading shipped over the 
                                        Louisville
                                     and 
                                        Nashville
                                     Road to 
                              Memphis,
                                            Tenn.
                            Since this time I
                                    have found a man who is now in Camp Nigo, as a private, that says he saw the produce
                                    at the landing in 
                                        Memphis
                                    , and for the truth of this, refers to the following persons and
                                    circumstances: The boats were stopped at Smithland and towed up the
                                        Cumberland River to some point, and finally reached 
                                        Nashville
                                     by some circuitous route. The steamboat St. Francis was employed for
                                    this purpose, the capt. living at 
                                        Henderson
                                    . You are also refered to—Jondan and F. I. Martin, at
                                    Mayfield, 
                                        Ky.
                                    , also to Miss——Gregory, Wing Curve, three miles
                                    from Doublin, 
                                        Ky.
                                    , and Mrs. D. Tucker, seven miles below Wing Curve, 
                                        Ky.
                                     These facts are worthy of attention and I now ask your
                                    coöperation in this matter that these two persons may be brought to
                                    justice. Our citizens offered to pay the Barbours the $2000, advanced to
                                    them by the rebels, but were refused. I can procure all the names of the
                                    crew—one of them, E. Lane, of this city has told two tales 
                              
                                 6 These two Barbours may have been related to Cromwell
                                            Woolsey Barbour, prominent lawyer, state legislator, and later, in 1861, a
                                            fanner In 
                                                Fayette
                                             Township. 
                                                Blackford
                                             Condit, The History of Early 
                                                    Terre Haute
                                                
                                  (
                                                New York
                                            , 1900), pp. 11–13.
                           
                                     about the matter. The first was that the boats
                                    landed at 
                                        Cairo
                                    , but seeing what the 
                                        Evansville
                                     Journal said, he changed the story to this—The
                                        secessionists took the boats above Cairo, drove the crew off, and landed the
                                        boats at Smithland. This matter must be looked into, and as I am in
                                    possession of these facts, many of our best citizens have requested me to acquaint
                                    you with the same that you may order the arrest of these two offenders, and the
                                    crew, as aiders and abettors. The man referred to in Camp Nigo is Jesse K. Kendall,
                                    in Capt. Welch's company. Trusting that you will take immediate and
                                    efficient steps to ferret out this matter.
                        
                                    I remain your humble Serv't,
                                    Isaac M. Brown.7
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bedford
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    March 24, 1863.
                                
                        Gov. O. P. Morton,
                        
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana.
                        Dear Sir:
                        I think it highly important & beneficial to Indiana and the adjoining States
                                    to address you thus—as a friend. It is well known to you that there is
                                    such a Society8 in Indiana as k.g.c. [Knights of the Golden
                                    Circle]. And to be plain & honerable I wish to inform you that I have been a
                                    member of that order for about three months and having served in the capacity of an
                                    officer in the Central lodge of my County & of course I have the opportunity
                                    of knowing all the important moves that is being or going to be made throughout all
                                    the different lodges in the State & adjoining States.
                        Sir it will be putting my life at Stake to expose the Secret organization above
                                    mentioned, though I think that it is very important that it should be, for a proper
                                    exposition of this Secret order will keep down a rebellion among our people,
                                    although there will be some difficulty to overcome the attempts that is now being
                                    made, yet with proper information it can be done with more than usual Success. Now
                                    Sir if you feel disposed to act in good faith and will justify me for so doing I
                                    will furnish you with a written or verbal statement of all its proceedings from its
                                    introduction in Indiana up to the present, viz., a copy of the oath of each degree,
                                    the Signs grips and passes also the Signs grips and passes when they change, the
                                    accurate number of firearms held by this order the principal points where kept, the
                                    intentions and designs of this order and in short—everything necessary
                                    for information belonging thereto by bringing things before the public in this
                                    manner, this Secret order like a ball in the air must fall. In order that full
                                    information may be had from time to time it is necessary for me to remain a member
                                    of 
                              
                                 7 Before editing the Atlas. Isaac M.
                                            Brown had been foreman of the 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            
                                            Express, owned by David S. Donaldson. His suggestion to
                                            the latter that the Express was ready for a daily issue,
                                            bore fruit in the establishment of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            's first daily paper (May 12, 1851). Condit, of. cit.,
                                            pp 13–.
                              
                                 8 The anti-war activities of the Knights of the Golden
                                            Circle were exposed in the treason trials of 1864 through the efforts of
                                            General H. B. Carrington, Governor Morton, and a host of secret service men.
                                            The membership was estimated at 50,000 and its funds at $200,000.
                                            Charles M. Walker, Sketch of the Life, Character, and Public
                                                Services of Oliver P. Morton (Prepared for the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Journal, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1878), pp. 10–.
                           
                                     this order. I trust therefore that you will not
                                    drop any hint or expose the name of your humble Correspondent in any way whatever as
                                    it would not only expel me from this order but would bring my life at Stake. If
                                    after a proper consideration of the ideas droped in this letter you should think it
                                    expedient to answer Address me at 
                              Bedford, Lawrence
                                    County
                           , Indiana and I will either come to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and see you personnaly or will write as you may think best.
                        
                                    Very respectfully your humble servant
                                    L. F. C.
                                
                        P.S. Direct your letter to the initials signed at the bottom of this letter and
                                    in Care of Isaac Recter.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Bergetts Corner
                           
                                    July 29, 1863
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I feel it my duty to inform you of some Things going on in this neiborhood that I
                                    must confess that I dont understand we have men that thir [their] conversation and
                                    actions is tresonble throughout thir [they] are desturbing the Peace of all good
                                    Loyel men in every way [If] they can they Go to Church on the Sabbeth Day waring
                                    thir buternuts for brest pins and Cursing and Swaring and daring any and evry body
                                    to take them of and say if they are drafted They will fight and die at home. All
                                    that I want to No if there is any way to Stop such action of being cared on. Last
                                    Sabeth I saw myself ten or twelve armed men at Church in [and] return home firing
                                    their pistols from wagons amongst Wimen and Children. I tell Govner us union folks
                                    is geting Weary of Such Carings on if There is anyway to Stop Copperheads and
                                    buternuts from Talking treason I wish to No it and if you think it best to let them
                                    say and do as they Pleas I wish to no it. I can give names if you want them please
                                    Send me a few Lines and give your opinion. Address Bergets Corner, Clinton Co. Ind.
                                    I must Close for the Present.
                        
                                    Yours Respectfully,
                                    Isaac Dick
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    North Salem
                                 ,
                           
                                    Mar 20th 1863
                                
                        Honeable [sic] O. P. Morton Govner of Ind.
                        Honead [sic] Sir
                        Do please pardon me for imposing on your Honer, by informing you of Some Matters
                                    Existing with the Disloyal party of our neighborhood. The Citizens of our Town and
                                    Township are becoming Alarmed. Thoes abominable Trators are holding at night
                                    & sometimes in the day Secret Meetings. They have procured all the amunition
                                    in Town they could get. Arming themselves with pistols and guns making all sorts of
                                    threats They are becomeing Very Impertinent and Sassy, make threats what they will
                                    do if thir Should come another draft and I firmly believe their is devastation and
                                    trouble at our doors. Some goes so far as to Say they are in hopes the union mens
                                    heads will be maid to ache yet and good many Such Threats. We have a Toleable bad
                                    Butternut hole in this part of Hendricks Co Ind. I have been Selling Dry goods here
                                         for 30 years & am pretty well
                                    acquainted with the greater part of all persons. I am positively afraid to buy goods
                                    this Spring and my Neighbor merchants are also alarmed as to buying goods as I
                                    suppose this Eelriver Township is the most disloyal Township in the County.9
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Salem, Steuben
                                  Co., Ind.
                           
                                    March 23, 1863.
                                
                        Hon. Governor Morton,
                        Dear Sir:
                        We the loyal people of 
                                        Salem
                                     Tp. 
                                        Steuben
                                     Co. Ind. are Surrounded by Cecesh of the deepest dye, and wish to know,
                                    what can be done to stop them in their mad career.
                        At a public meeting last nite, their speaker (Van Nocken) upheld Cecession, claimed
                                    brother-hood with armed traitors, openly denounced everything and everbody that were
                                    in favor of the Suppression of the Rebellion. And heaped the bitterest curses that
                                    his Hell deserving soul could rake up on the President and his Cabinet. In short it
                                    was well calculated to stimulate the ignorant Copperheads to acts of outrage of
                                    which they have already threatened. The treasonable speech was cheered by all
                                    present except Six [Union men].
                        Now Governor what can be don for God's Sake tell us. Will we be justified by
                                    Law if we use the rope? May we shoot them or will you have them arrested?
                        
                                    Your humble Servant,
                                    D. R. Wisel10
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Ossian, Wells Co., Indiana,
                           
                                    April 23, 1865.
                                
                        Your Excellency O. P. Morton
                        Sir My duty prompts one to drop you a few lines and the citizens of 
                                        Adams County
                                     prays they may be heard. A man named John Rupright living in Preble
                                    Township, Adams Co., Ind. being a rank Cecessionist has been a Source of annoyance
                                    to us for the last 4 years he was the leader of the society called the knights of
                                    the golden circle and came very near getting our Township raised in arms against the
                                    draft and further more on Saturday the 15th the news reached us of the death of Mr.
                                    Lincoln. I was standing in my yard about 20 Steps from the public road when the Said
                                    John Rupright and another man named George Judd passed my house with the team. Mr.
                                    Rupright asked me if I had heard of the death of Lincoln. I told him I had and felt
                                    Sorry for it and said at the top of his voice he was God Damed glad he was Dead they
                                    passed on a few rods further and on meeting some Ladies the above named George Judd
                                    remarked to them that Lincoln died this morning at seven o'clock and went
                                    to hell and after they got home they gathered up all the bells and old pistols I
                                    suppose they had and marched up and down the road untill near mid-knight 
                              
                                 9 The writer, J. S. Woodward, goes on to make a
                                            request for his son's discharge from a Union hospital.
                              
                                 10 Daniel R. Wisel was president of the local Union
                                            League. Later he served as Commander of the McLain Post, Company D, 18, 
                                                Ohio
                                             Cavalry, a veterans' organization. He is described as
                                            a "hail, affable comrade" who "always attends to
                                            the interest of his poet and takes just pride in same." The War for the Union (War Record of 
                                                Steuben County
                                            , Indiana, 188–), pp. 7–1.
                           
                                     rejoicing over his death this we think is more
                                    than we can bear and we beg of the authorities to bring them to justice this
                                    statement I have mad here I am ready to be qualified to at any time if necessary my
                                    post office address Ossian Wells Co. Indiana.
                        
                                    From Yours,
                                    Lewis Griffith
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    (Anonymous)
                    A plain Statement of facts:
                    Col. Helm (as they call him) of 
                            Louisville
                         came in on the morning Express train on Saturday last (24th) with considerable
                        baggage accompanied by 2 young women. They went up to his brother's (Dr. James T.
                            Helm)11 and on Saturday Evening there was a lively group gathered there;
                            they were seen in close confab. The group seen comprised Dan'l W.
                            Voorhees,12 W. D. Krumbhaar,13 B. Frank Clark and
                        the two Helms—On Monday afternoon (26th) this Col. H. bought 2 tickets for Buffalo
                        & one ticket for one of the females to 
                            Detroit
                         via Sidney Last Evening this B. Frank Clark was seen making some very suspicious
                        movements, backing & filling around a corner towards Dr. Helm's at 10
                        o'clock at night (perhaps 1/4 of 10) and this morning he (Clark) bought a ticket for 
                            Greencastle
                         Junction (a direct connection for 
                            Louisville
                        ). He seemed to have plenty of money (which is in itself great cause for suspicion
                        as he is known and acknowledged as a veritable Jeremy Diddle).14 Before the
                        train started he was seen in close confab with Co. Thomas Dowling15
                        These things all have great weight & significance since facilities are
                        closed via Adams & other Expresses in sending correspondence to the traders at the
                        South, they must have private messengers. From all things gathered by a watchful
                            eye these men have a great plan to be carried out in connection with Col.
                        Helm's visit. All the men whose names are above mentioned are
                        intimate & in closest connection with that miserable specimen, John G. Davis,16 meeting him at the train when he arrives here and coming down with him
                        when he departs, and when in the city closeted with 
                     
                        11 The connection of the Helms of 
                                    Louisville
                                 with Grand Commander Harrison H. Dodd of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , of the Order of Sons of Liberty, seems to have been suspected by the
                                detective, Felix G. Stidger. A reference to Dr. James Helm appears in Stidger's
                                    Treason History of the Order of the Sons of Liberty, 1864, (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1903), p. 108. No place or date given for this communication. It was
                                evidently written at 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , and probably in 1863.
                     
                        12 The evidence, as later presented during Carrington's
                                raid upon Voorhees' office, appears to be inconclusive as to the guilt of the
                                latter. Voorhees denied that the office belonged to him in August, 1864, the time of the
                                raid. Stidger, op. cit., pp. 100, 13–89.
                     
                        13 Possibly William F. Krumbhaar, Warden of St. Stephens
                                Protestant Episcopal Church of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                . Condit, op. cit., p. 84.
                     
                        14 The improvident character in James Kenney's farce, Raising The Wind. (
                                    London
                                , 1803). Jeremy borrows small sums continually from his acquaintances whom
                                he later cannot repay.
                     
                        15 Colonel Thomas Dowling, founder of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                Express, ended his newspaper career in 1845. He served several times
                                as a member of the state legislature; then as trustee of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie Canal; City Councillor in 
                                    Terre Haute
                                ; and County Commissioner. He died in 1876. Condit, op.
                                cit., pp. 13–35. Also mentioned in William Wesley Woollen's Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1883), p. 96.
                     
                        16 John G. Davis, an anti-war Democrat, was active in the
                                Vallandigham peace movement in the Old Northwest. His correspondence, declared by
                                Carrington to reveal disloyal plans, was seized in Voorhees' office at 
                                    Terre Haute
                                . William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1899), I, passim.
                  
                         him—Something must be done in
                        examining these suspected messengers as they arrive and depart. They are known and closely
                        watched by true-hearted men who long to coöperate with the proper authorities in
                        suppressing this mighty scheme, that is being carried on via 
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        .
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Fulton, Fulton
                                  [County] Ind.
                           
                                    June 19th, 1863.
                                
                        Mr. Morton:
                        Dear Sir, knowing that you must have a multiplicity of business on your mind I will
                                    detain you with only a few lines—
                        Seeing the condition of our Country, and the iminent danger to which the honest and
                                    Loyal citizen [s] of this State are Exposed on account of this Banditi
                                        of Unholy men; I allude to Knights of the Golden Circle,
                                    who are holding their night meetings throughout the length and breadth of the land.
                                    Evidently—I think to adopt plans, and ways, by which to greatly weaken if
                                    not, entirely frustrate, the movements of the Government, in the prosecution of this
                                    war—In a word they are rebels in heart and will be so in
                                    practice—very soon.
                        Unless they can be check'd immediately.—I would therefore
                                    recommend the propriety of enforcing Martial Law throughout the State, Immediately. I believe it would be a wise and proper movement also for the
                                    Governor to Issue a proclamation making it the duty of all the males over Eighteen
                                    and under 45 years to form themselves into companies, allowing older men the
                                    privilege of joining in with them, and all such companies to be put, under
                                    obligation to drill on Saturday afternoon of each week and to be
                                    called the home militia. Men who have had some practise in
                                    military tactics can be obtained in the country to drill such companies without
                                    calling home any from the regular army.
                        Then if Government Should find it necessary hereafter, to furnish such companies,
                                    with arms, it would be a great advantage to have men already drill'd who
                                    could go into action without farther delay. But I must close by advising you to keep
                                    a body guard of honest men, around your person. Please write to me soon if you can
                                    get the time as I am very anxious to hear how things are moving at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    —My address is 
                              Fulton, Fulton
                            Co., Ind. I
                                    am a member of the N. W. Ind. Conf. of M. E. Church & 22 years a travelling
                                    Preacher. Brothers J. L. Smith, Wm. Wills, R. Hargrave are well acquainted with me.
                        
                                    Respectfully yours,
                                    R. H. Calvert
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        (Private)
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Columbus
                                 , O.,
                           
                                    June 5, 1863
                                
                        Dear Governor:
                        We are watching Judge Davis'17 course at 
                                        Chicago
                                     with great interest, opinion being divided as to his probable course. I
                                    feel that some homogenous policy is necessary and wish it would be adopted by 
                              
                                 17 Judge David Davis (181–886), Justice of
                                            the 
                                                United States
                                             Supreme Court, then serving in the Circuit Court at 
                                                Chicago
                                            . This may be a reference to General Burnride's
                                            arbitrary arrests of civilians and his interference in the policies of
                                            Democratic newspapers such as the 
                                                Chicago
                                            
                                            Times.
                           
                                     the government. The Copperheads here are bold
                                    and defiant and seem to gather courage. The "Crisis"18 reprints the article that caused the World19 to be
                                    interdicted. The republicans are beginning to divide into factions looking to the
                                    presidency, though Gov. Tod will be nominated again for Governor by consent it
                                    seems.
                        The recent operations in 
                                        Illinois
                                    
                           20 & the course of Valandingham21 south, confirm me in what I believe as to the intent of the
                                    K.G.C. in 
                                        Illinois
                                     & the northwest, and the value of a thorough, but uniform
                                    policy in those states. I have not yet failed to see cause, since before the war
                                    commenced, to stand by my conclusions whether accidental or otherwise, as to
                                    measures of public policy & feel daily renewed confidence in what I have
                                    regarded as the wise policy for the management of the west & northwest.
                        I have seen few 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     papers and hardly know what you are doing.
                        The order restoring Dawson22 states that he was recommended to
                                    executive clemency.
                        I have no idea or intimation of my particular destination.
                        
                                    With sincere regard, I am truly your friend,
                                    Henry B. Carrington23
                           
                                
                        Colfax24 writes me he received numerous petitions about me
                                    but did not use them, being a neighbor of Gen. Haskell.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 12, 1865
                                
                        Gov. O. P. Morton,
                        
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                        Dear Sir: I notice by orders recently issued from 
                                        Washington
                                    , that 
                              
                                 18 The 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            
                                            Crisis, an organ favorable to the Vallandigham peace
                                            party, was suspended shortly thereafter by military order. Samuel Klaus,
                                            editor, The Milligan Case (
                                                New York
                                            , 1929), pp. 1–3.
                              
                                 19 The 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            World, a Democratic newspaper, was likewise suspended by
                                            General Burnside because it was "calculated to exert a pernicious
                                            and treasonable influencequot;. Klaus, op. cit., p. 20.
                              
                                 20 For details of the 
                                                Chicago
                                             Conspiracy and the "Copperhead" activities in
                                            southern 
                                                Illinois
                                            , see I. Winslow Ayer, The Great Northwestern
                                                Conspiracy (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1865), pp. 5–0.
                              
                                 21 Clement L. Vallandigham (182–871), a
                                            leader of the "peace movement" in the Old Northwest. He
                                            had been arrested on May 5, 1863 by General Burnside for "declaring
                                            disloyal sentiments", but subsequently deported to the South by
                                            President Lincoln. After a cool reception from Jefferson Davis, Vallandigham
                                            escaped to 
                                                Canada
                                             to direct from there his campaign for governor of 
                                                Ohio
                                            . James L. Vallandigham, A Life of Clement L.
                                                Vallandigham (
                                                Baltimore
                                            , 1872).
                              
                                 22 Major Samuel K. Dawson, 19th Regiment, U. S.
                                            Infantry, Dept. of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            , sentenced on January 9, 1863, by a General Court Martial to be
                                            cashiered. He was recommended to Lincoln soon after for executive clemency
                                            and subsequently reinstated in command. Thomas M. O'Brien and
                                            Oliver Diefendorf, editors, General Orders of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 War Department, 1861-S (
                                                New York
                                            , 1864), Vol. II. p. 157.
                              
                                 23 General Henry B. Carrington, federal mustering
                                            officer, acted in close collaboration with Governor Morton in setting up an
                                            espionage system which finally brought about the exposure of the Knights of
                                            the Golden Circle and other defeatist groups.
                              
                                 24 Schuyler Colfax (182–886), later
                                            Vice-President of the 
                                                United States
                                             during the Grant Administration, was active in Indiana state
                                            politics. Possibly the reference here to petitions concerning Carrington
                                            relates to the resentment among anti-war Democrats against the
                                            "letter-thief of Indiana" (Carrington) for his espionage
                                            activities. His "neighbor", General Milo Haskall, was at
                                            that time Commander of a small federal force in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             stationed about the city to protect government property against
                                            the alleged "Copperhead" plot to attack the city. Mayo
                                            Fasler, "Secret Political Societies in the North During the Civil
                                            War", Indiana Magazine of History, Vol. XIV, p.
                                            211.
                           
                                     Bowles, Milligan, and Horsey25 are to be executed within a few days at your place. Governor I believe you
                                    will do me the justice to say, that I have never been the apologist for punishment
                                    to traitors in arms against the government but when I see the rebellion put down and
                                    remember that we who still survive the fearful ravages of this wicked rebellion,
                                    whether we sided for or against the government, are at last, all brothers and
                                    countrymen, and that now we have beaten them fairly at war, had we not better cease
                                    the shedding of any more blood except the blood of miserable assassins of our
                                    beloved Lincoln and those who still continue in arms for plunder. Rivers of brothers
                                    blood has flown in this unholy and useless war, you, our Governor, have it in your
                                    power to save the lives of three fellow beings, two of whom at best are far in the
                                    journey of life. I appeal to you Governor by our past political and friendly
                                    associations to stay the hand of the executioner, and not to rest until you have it
                                    from the hands of the President a full and free pardon of these men. I know the
                                    aggravation to you is great but rise above all this and show to our countrymen that
                                    whilst victorious, you are more than generous; but let not a moment elapse, time is
                                    precious and a life once taken cannot be recalled. Do this Governor and whilst there
                                    may be some who will condemn, take my word for it, imitate our saviour be merciful
                                    and not only will your own conscience applaud but thousands of your fellow citizens
                                    will sing hosannas to you for being able to rise above party and personal feelings
                                    and thus save the lives of three persons who are reputed to have been your personal
                                    and political enemies. I will mention still further, that I am not personally
                                    acquainted with either of these parties condemned; but feel that there is no good to
                                    result to our country from their execution, and therefore ask your interposition in
                                    their favour, which I know if done settles it.
                        In a political point of view it can work [our] party no good to shed more blood but
                                    on the contrary, if we are merciful, the child is not yet born who will see the
                                    defeat of the Republican party, whilst on the other hand, if we are not, the
                                    reaction will come and probably the coming year will witness our overthrow. All
                                    considerations point to mercy, you have it in your power to be so [illegible]
                        
                                    As ever your Friend,
                                    Silas F. Miller26
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  25 The trio, Dr. William A. Bowles, Lambdin P. Milligan, and Stephen
                        Horsey, were the principal defendants in the great treason trials of 1864. They were charged
                        with various disloyal activities among which were a project to seize the federal and state
                        arsenals in Indiana, a plot to lead an uprising of prisoners in coöperation with the
                        Confederates, and in other ways "giving aid and comfort to the enemy." The
                        case, ex parte Milligan, famous in our constitutional history, grew out of
                        these treason trials and became the test case of conflicting civil and military
                            authority. President Lincoln refused to take any action in the case of the three
                        defendants during the course of the war but gave assurance that he would pardon them upon the
                        return of peace. The evidence of the guilt of these men which had been accepted by a military
                        commission, appeared to be flimsy indeed. After Lincoln's death. President Andrew
                        Johnson signed the order for execution, but Governor Morton successfully intervened in behalf of
                        the men who were alleged (among other crimes) to have threatened his life. Horsey, Bowles and
                        Milligan were released during April, 1866, after eighteen months imprisonment. Milligan
                        subsequently (1868) brought suit for damages against the members of the military commission (Ex parte Milligan). Foulke, op. cit., I, pp. 424.432; also
                        Klaus, op. cit., passim.
               
                  26 Colonel Silas F. Miller of the Galt House in 
                            Louisville
                        , an extravagant admirer of Morton's.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Harmony
                                 , Ind.
                           
                                    Jan. 16, 1861
                                
                        [Letter of Edward Murphy to Governor Morton: Discussion of several personal
                                    differences among the members of an Indiana committee conducting a Geological
                                    Survey. The portion of this letter that follows has political interest in view of
                                    the importance of the individuals involved.] Our last ground of opposition to Dr.
                                    Richard Owen27 is: He and his associates are as strong opponents
                                    of Republicanism as their capacities permit them to be; throughout the Presidential
                                    Campaign they have supported Douglas by the customary Democratic methods. Dr. R.
                                    Owen's conduct on January 5th will serve as a specimen. His brother, Robert
                                    Dale Owen,28 had called a meeting for the day. The Republicans
                                    attended in greater number than was expected, and it was known that the night
                                    before, the Republican Club of 
                                        New Harmony
                                    , had declared against compromise. Dr. R. Owen made a passionate attack
                                    upon the Republicans; he told them that there were some present who were opposed to
                                    compromise, and that as the party favorable to compromise had paid the expenses of
                                    the room, those opposed to compromise had not anymore right to be present than
                                    infidels would have to be present at a church-meeting or Methodists at a Tom Paine
                                    celebration. Robert Dale Owen said he must oppose his brother for he had called the
                                    meeting and had urged all the inhabitants to attend.
                        When Dr. R. Owen spoke again, he poured out a rhapsody to the effect that
                                    amalgamation is the chief Republican principle, that mulattoes are tuberculous that
                                    Negroes are made to be used by the Anglo-Saxon race in hot climates, and that to
                                    prevent all the pestilential consequences of "amalgamation" they
                                    must be kept south of a certain line; not the line that suits the Republicans but
                                    the Crittenden line, or that line with his brother's modification.
                     
                  
               
                
            [DISPATCHES]
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Sept. 22, 1861
                    To Gov. O. P. Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Have just ordered General Fremont29 to send up gunboat if he can spare it.
                    A. Lincoln
                
            
               
                  27 Dr. Richard Owen, (181–890) youngest son of Robert Owen, the
                        famous philanthropist, was Assistant, and later, State Geologist of Indiana. In 1869 and 1860,
                        he conducted the geological survey of the state to which the letter makes reference. Despite the
                        impression given here, Owen's loyalty to the Union is evidenced by extensive military
                        service for which he received flattering acknowledgments from Secretary Edwin M. Stanton. His
                        scientific contributions are noteworthy. A Biographical History of Eminent and
                            Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1880), Vol. I, p. 38; also Arthur H. Estabrook, "The Family History of
                        Robert Owen", Indiana Magazine of History, Vol. XIX, pp.
                        6–01.
               
                  28 Robert Dale Owen (180–877), oldest son of Robert Owen, is
                        noted for his philanthropies, particularly in behalf of the Negro and the community experiment
                        at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana. He enjoyed an extensive literary and political career; was elected as a
                        state representative on the Democratic ticket and twice as a national representative during
                        184–. During the Civil War, he acted as purchasing agent for Indiana arms in close
                        collaboration with Governor Morton. On the war activities of Robert Dale Owen, see the official
                        report of William H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1869), pp. 317, 43–, passim. Many of Owen's
                        letters, written in his capacity as purchasing agent, are in the collection.
               
                  29 The counterpart to this telegram appears in the Official
                            Records of the Union
                    
            
            
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Sept. 26, 1861
                    To Gov. O. P. Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    We are supplying all the demands for arms as fast as we can.30 We expect to
                        order a lot to you tomorrow. I think there is no concentration of railroads at
                        Muldrough's Hill. A week ago we heard that the enemy was encamped on
                        Muldrough's Hill. Now our friends31 are encamped upon it and the
                        enemies pickets are in sight. That is an improvement.
                    A. Lincoln
                
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Sept. 29, 1861
                    To Gov. O. P. Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    I have just shown your message to General Scott. He says he will be glad if the report of
                            Zollicoffers32 having left 
                            Cumberland Gap
                         shall be confirmed. I intend writing to you today. Arms going to you and
                            Anderson33 as fast as we can send them.
                    A. Lincoln
                
            
                    Jackson, 
                            Tennessee
                        
                   [No date, but probably 1862, after Donelson]
                    To Governor Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Glad to have you furnish clothing for the regiments named also for the twenty third and fifty
                        second Indiana. If you can would also like to have more Indiana regts to be clothed.
                    Major-General Ulysses S. Grant
                
            
               
                  and Confederate Armies, Series I, Vol. IV (
                            Washington
                        , 1882), p. 265. Lincoln telegraphed on September 22, to General Fremont, then
                        stationed at 
                            St. Louis
                        , the headquarters of the Western Department, that he had just received a plea for
                        help from Morton. Owensborough, 
                            Ky.
                        , forty miles above 
                            Evansville
                        , was reported to be in possession of the Confederates and the Governor had demanded
                        a gunboat to recapture the town by an attack along the Green River. 
                            Fremont
                         complied at once by Bending the gunboat 
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                         to the scene but when it arrived no enemy was in sight. Ibid., p. 274.
               
                  30 Morton had wired to Simon Cameron on September 12: "Can you
                        not send arms at once? Our border is nearly defenselessquot;. Official Records,
                            Series I, Vol. IV, p. 267.
               
                  31 General William T. Sherman, in charge of the Home Guard of 
                            Kentucky
                         and a force under Colonel Rousseau, reoccupied Muldrough's Hill at this
                        time thus securing a strategic position necessary for the defense of 
                            Louisville
                        . The breakdown of railroad communications, to which reference is made in the above
                        telegram seemed to isolate Sherman who asked for more troops. Official
                        Records, Series I, Vol. IV, p. 278.
               
                        
                     32 General Felix Zollicoffer of the Confederate forces led the invasion
                            into 
                                Kentucky
                             which swept aside the last remnants of "
                                Kentucky
                             neutrality" fostered by Governor Magoffin. This precipitated a crisis
                            in which Morton came forward as the leader of the Union element in 
                                Kentucky
                            . Three days after Lincoln's telegram quoted above, the Governor issued
                            a proclamation to the people of Indiana urging the support of the Unionists in 
                                Kentucky
                             to repel Zollicoffer's invasion. The Life of Oliver P.
                                Morton. (Prepared by the Indiana Republican State Central Committee, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1876), pp. 3–. Morton's anxiety over 
                                Kentucky
                            , which is reflected in his repeated telegrams to Lincoln on the subject, can be
                            seen in this message of September 2, 1861, to Thomas A. Scott, Assistant Secretary of War:
                        "At the risk of being considered troublesome I will say the conspiracy to
                            precipitate 
                                Kentucky
                             into revolution is complete. The blow may be struck at any moment, and the
                            southern border is lined with 
                                Tennessee
                             troops, ready to march at the instant the Government is ready to meet them. If
                            we lose 
                                Kentucky
                             now, God help usquot;. Official Records, Series I, Vol. IV,
                            p. 256.
                    
               
                  33 Major Robert Anderson of Fort Sumter fame, then organizing Union
                        volunteers in 
                            Kentucky
                        . A number of his reports and telegrams appear In the collection.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Jan. 15, 1863
                    To Gov. Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    The movements of the rebel forces in 
                            Virginia
                         are sufficiently developed to show that Gen. Lee with his whole army is moving
                        forward to invade the states of Md. & Penna. & other states. The Prest. to repel
                        this invasion promptly has called upon 
                     Ohio,
                                Penna, Maryland
                  , & Western 
                            Virginia
                         for one hundred thousand militia for six months unless sooner discharged. It is
                        important to have the largest possible force in the least time & if other states would
                        furnish militia for a short term to be credited on the draft it would greatly advance the
                        object. Will you please inform me immediately what number in answer to a special call of the
                        Prest. you can raise & forward of militia or volunteers without bounty for six (6)
                        months unless sooner discharged and to be credited on the draft of your state.34
               
                    Edwin M. Stanton.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., June 18, 1863
                    To Col. W. R. Holloway,35
               
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Send to the President secretaries, Governors & 
                            New York
                         papers my late proclamation. The rebel raid in 
                            Penna
                        . is beginning to be believed humbug.36
               
                    O. P. Morton
                
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Nov. 15, 1864
                    To Gov. O. P. Morton,
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Please send as soon as practicable exact or approximately the aggregate number of votes cast in
                        your state at the late election. It is desired with reference to the forthcoming messages.37
               
                    A. Lincoln
                
            
               
                  34 Morton's call for volunteers in response to this telegram was
                        issued in June, 1863. Four regiments were raised in Indiana and sent to eastern 
                            Tennessee
                        . Terrell, op. cit., p, 18.
               
                  35 Secretary to Governor Morton.
               
                  36 The governor's proclamation of June 11, 1863, was a
                        restatement of the drastic penalties imposed by state and federal authorities against those
                        counselling or participating in resistance to the conscription laws. Terrell, op.
                            cit., Document 132, pp. 34–. Secretary Terrell later wrote: "By
                        personal visits to 
                            Washington
                         and frequent suggestions by letter and telegram, he [Morton] continually pressed
                        his views upon the Government and there Is abundant evidence that these efforts had important,
                        if not controlling, influence upon the conduct of the warquot;. Ibid., p. 26.
                        Shortly afterwards, Morton prevailed upon the War Department to strengthen the army by the
                        reenlistment of veterans (General Orders No. 191 of June 25, 1863.) 
                            Gettysburg
                         was to prove the Governor a mistaken prophet.
               
                  37 Lincoln's Fourth Annual Message to Congress of December 6,
                        1864, included several comments on the presidential election and a table of comparative
                        statistics on the elections of 1860 and 1864. He cited the figures to prove that the country had
                        indicated their loyal support of the Union cause and that the man-power of the North, far from
                        being exhausted, was actually increasing. James D. Richardson, editor, A
                            Compilation of the Menage and, Papers of the Presidents, 178–897 (
                            Washington
                        , 1900), Vol. VI, PP. 24–55.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Older Middle West, 184–880. By Henry Clyde Hubbart. D.
                    Appleton-Century Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1936. Pp. ix, 305, maps, $3.50.
            This valuable volume was "published from a fund contributed to the American Historical
                    Association by the Carnegie Corporation of 
                        New York
                    ." It represents a new venture—an attempt to present and interpret
                    the post-frontier period of the Old Northwest. The descriptive sub-title indicates that the author
                    wished to include, in the history of the region and era selected, the "social, economic,
                    and political life and sectional tendencies before, during, and after the Civil War." This
                    he has done in an admirable effort, but he has made other phases of the life portrayed do service
                    mainly as the background of party history. Four of the fifteen chapters deal with social
                    development, culture, and business conditions, but the remaining chapters are primarily political.
            The headings of the sections, into which the chapters are divided, reveal correctly the trend of the
                    author's thought in regard to party activities and leaders. "The Progressive
                    Western Democracy, 184–848"; "Popular Sovereignty Becomes Popular";
                    "Lincoln and Douglas Not Far Apart in the Great Debate"; "The Lower South Breaks
                    from the Douglas West"; "The Lakes and the East Reluctantly Accept Lincoln"; "The
                    Free West Repudiates Lincoln, 1862"; "The Western Peace Bolt, 1864"; "The Revival
                    of the Democratic Party in the West, 186–872"—these titles, selected from the
                    headings of sections scattered through the book, will help readers of this review, who may be
                    interested, to know what to expect from a study of Professor Hubbart's volume. There are
                    numerous fresh points of view in regard to leaders, events and movements, some of which are original
                    and some of which have been adopted by the author, that lend interest to his treatment. He has had
                    no tendency to accept stereotyped interpretations without at least a new and critical examination.
            It seems unfortunate that the title of the volume should indicate that it covers the period from
                    "1840 to 1880quot;. A more fitting range would be 1840 to 1870, or certainly not a longer
                    period than from 1840 to 1875. When mentioning the 
                        Oregon
                     settlement, the statement is made that President Polk and Senator Benton, reversing
                    themselves, took up Calhoun's  idea, and compromised (p,
                    18). It is true that Calhoun was strongly against war with Great Britain over 
                        Oregon
                    , but was he for division of the 
                        Oregon Country
                    ? In connection with the story of the nomination of Horatio Seymour of 
                        New York
                     by the Democratic National Convention in 1868, there follows the erroneous statement
                    that "Indiana was rewarded and the West supposedly appeased by the nomination of Hendricks
                    as the vice-presidential Candidate" (p. 247). "The Old North-West in the
                    Post-Frontier Period" would seem to fit the book better than to include the term
                    "Middle West" in the title, but the author makes clear to what country he means
                    his title to apply.
            It remains to say that Professor Hubbart has written an excellent book which is based on extensive
                    research and which represents an open-minded approach to the problems of the times. All who are
                    interested in Indiana history will find a great deal of important matter in this study that bears
                    directly on the state's development in the period covered. The remainder of the contents of
                    the volume apply to the geographic section of which Indiana is a part, and cannot be other than
                    attractive to citizens of the Hoosier commonwealth.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Indiana Asbury-DePauw University, 188–937. By William Warren Sweet.
                    The Abingdon Press, 
                        New York
                    . Pp. 298, illustrated.
            It would have been difficult to find another person as well fitted to write a centennial history of
                    DePauw University as Dr. Sweet of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Vitally interested in DePauw, sometime professor of history in that institution, a
                    writer of history, he seems to have been just the man to prepare the work. The resulting volume is
                    an adequate testimonial that he measured up to the task that he undertook.
            The history of any college that has lived a hundred years should be interesting and colorful.
                    Unfortunately too many such histories consist of a series of biographical sketches of the presidents
                    with a modest amount of other matter thrown in for padding. Dr. Sweet has dealt adequately with the
                    strong men who guided the destiny of DePauw through one hundred years, but he has not slighted other
                    features of college life. Financial problems, the work and influence of faculty  members, student activities, both academic and extra-curricular, and
                    the general policy and growth of the institution—all these are skillfully woven into the
                    narrative.
            Like most colleges, DePauw has passed through some serious crises, one of the most interesting being
                    the abolition of the Normal School in 1890. At this time, the total enrollment of the institution
                    passed above 1,000, but those enrolled in the College of Liberal Arts made up less than a third of
                    the student body. The Preparatory School was as yet very large, while the Normal
                        School, a division of the University, cared for a group of students more than half as
                    numerous as those enrolled in the College of Liberal Arts. Early in his administration, Pres. J. P.
                    D. John consummated the elimination of the teachers' department, with the backing of the
                    Board of Trustees. This move was not well understood at the time, but most professors of content
                    subjects in Universities today will agree with a later president of DePauw, now Bishop Edwin Holt
                    Hughes, that President John did well when he kept "the Normal School from oversloughing the
                    University."
            One might wish that Dr. Sweet had written more in regard to the outstanding men and women educated at
                    DePauw University during the century. In that long period many students have come to sit at the feet
                    of the teachers of the institution, for a comparatively brief time at best, but, on a large number,
                    a deep impression was undoubtedly made by professors and by the general college life and spirit.
                    Just as a tree is known by its fruits, so a college must be known by its products. These are
                    contributions to scholarship, and the graduates turned out. There is, of course, a good reason why,
                    even in an excellent college history, not a great deal can be said of the alumni. It is hard to know
                    how much the college period has to do with the success of a graduate, with his attainments, or with
                    his services to society. It is not the contention of the reviewer that this difficulty can be
                    overcome, but rather he is expressing the wish that more could be known in regard to how much that
                    is worth while in the lives of the graduates of a college should be credited to the college
                    influence.
            In closing this appraisal, the statements cannot be omitted that every one with a special interest in
                    DePauw University owes a debt to Dr. Sweet; and that everyone interested  in the development of mid-western colleges will profit by reading this
                    newest history of a strong Indiana College—the erstwhile Indiana Asbury University, now
                    DePauw University.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Charles Osborn in the Anti-Slavery Movement. By Ruth Anna Ketring. The 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 
                        Columbus
                    . Pp. xi, 95.
            This monograph (
                  
                            Ohio
                         Historical Collections, Volume VII) presents a study of a southerner, who was
                    active in the Friends Church, who was born, reared, and educated in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and who began his career as a 
                        Quaker
                     minister in 
                        Tennessee
                    . Charles Osborn spent most of his years when in the service of his church as a
                    traveling minister. This was from 1809 to 1840. He was born in 1775 and died in 1850. In about 1816,
                    he moved with his family from 
                        Tennessee
                     to 
                  Jefferson County, Ohio
               , and, in 1819, to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana. Later (182–830), the family lived for three years in
                            
                  Clinton County, Ohio
               . Returning to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, the next migration was to 
                  Cass
                        County, Michigan
               , where the family
                    remained till 1842. During the last years of his life, Osborn was engaged in farming and lived in 
                        Porter County
                    , Indiana.
            In his early years, Osborn was not interested in anti-slavery activities, but as the years went by he
                    became more and more hostile to the institution. While he moved slowly from one position to another,
                    Miss Ketring states that "he was one of the few leaders who bridged the gap from the early
                    and moderate anti-slavery movement in the South to the rabid campaigns of the northern
                    abolitionists" (p. 85).
            In 1815, a manumission society was formed in 
                        Tennessee
                    , for which Osborn was "chiefly responsiblequot;. At no time afterwards, it
                    seems, did he act so openly against slavery. He established the Philanthropist at
                    Mount Pleasant, 
                  Jefferson County, Ohio
               , in 1817. This paper, of which there is a complete file
                    in the Indiana State Library, he edited and published for more than a year. It was in the same
                    county that Benjamin Lundy had organized 
                        Ohio
                    's first anti-slavery society in 1815. The Philanthropist,
                    though it has such a reputation, was really not a strong anti-slavery organ. The editor did not,
                    through its columns, advocate "immediate and 
                    unconditional emancipation" (p. 35). He did oppose the American Colonization Society, and
                    the attacks of the Philanthropist on this organization, probably represent
                    Osborn's "most advanced thought" relative to slavery, in so far as his
                    views were published. While editor of the Philanthropist, Osborn became acquainted
                    with Benjamin Lundy who, for a short time, selected the "exchange" articles and
                    items that appeared in Osborn's paper. Lundy was prevented from becoming a partner of
                    Osborn by a sojourn in 
                        Missouri
                     at the time of the contest over admission to the Union. Osborn sold his paper to Elisha
                    Bates, and Lundy established the Genius of Universal Emancipation as a rival to
                    the Philanthropist in the same town in 1821. Osborn's chief work against
                    slavery during the rest of his life (181–850) was done in connection with the Society of
                    Friends. "There it was," writes Miss Ketring, "that his words as a
                    minister of twenty-five or thirty years experience carried weight. There it was that he lost no
                    opportunity to preach or speak in behalf of the slave. Those exhortations are now lost forever, and
                    they alone would show the true extent of his labors in the cause" (p. 86).
            This carefully prepared study should be of interest to Indiana readers of biography and history. The
                    author used the file of the Philanthropist, but found Charles
                        Osborn's Journal of His Travels and Labors in the Ministry (
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1854) the best source for facts bearing on his career. The author did undergraduate
                    work in Earlham College where she became interested in Osborne's part in the anti-slavery
                    movement. Her monograph may be obtained from Dr. Harlow Lindley, Secretary of the Archaeological and
                    Historical Society, 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               .
            BERTHA THOMAS LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Historical Societies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        
                is the title of a "Handbook" compiled by Christopher B.
                    Coleman. This paper-bound booklet of one hundred thirty-six pages was published under the auspices
                    of The Conference of Historical Societies late in 1936. It sells for $1.50 per copy and
                    may be obtained from the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As stated in the compiler's "Foreword", the
                    "Handbook" is "intended to be, first, a current address book of
                    historical societies and similar historical organizations in  the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     and, second, an introductory source of information about their more salient activities
                    and resources." The "Handbook" has been distributed to all members of The
                    Conference of Historical Societies by Dr. Coleman, the compiler, who is Secretary of the Conference.
                    Contributions by the Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society, and the Indiana Historical Society made this free distribution
                    possible. The data presented by this publication has been carefully prepared. All libraries and many
                    individuals will find it extremely useful.
            
               Indiana Imprints (180–809), by Douglas C. McMurtrie, was brought out by
                    the Indiana Historical Society early this year. It is described as "a supplement to Mary
                    Alden Walker's Beginnings of Printing in the State of Indiana",
                    which was published in 1934. Mr. McMurtrie has worked extensively and long in many parts of the 
                        United States
                    , and has become an outstanding authority on the history of early printing in the
                    Territories and States. It is fortunate for Indiana that he is interested in the subject as related
                    to this state. Further comment on his list of Indiana Imprints will be found on
                    pages 5–8 of this issue. The pamphlet is No. 5, Vol. XI, of Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, and may be obtained from the Historical Society, State
                    Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at $1.00 per copy.
            
               Anglo-French Boundary Disputes, 174–763, edited by Theodore Calvin
                    Pease, has been received and will be reviewed in our next issue. It is Vol. XXVII of Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society, and Vol. II of the "French Seriesquot;. The
                    volume is for sale by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society, 
                        Springfield
                    , at $2.50 per copy.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            TWO UNCERTAIN YEARS
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            I finished high school in the spring of 1888.1 In the fall of 1890, I began my
                    teaching career. In the interval, which seems very long as I look back to it in retrospect, I
                    worried a great deal about the future. Wandering on a barren plateau, with no signs to guide me, I
                    was much disturbed at times. Long ago, however, I ceased to regret having passed through that
                    discouraging period, having become certain that the experience was valuable. There was at least time
                    to think. Before leaving high school, I had been led to consider the possibility of entering 
                        Wabash
                     College. A woman who was interested in boys told me that she had talked to Dr.
                        Tuttle2 about me, which furnished something to dream about. There was a
                    feeling in our home that I ought to go to college, if possible to provide a way.
            Before any headway had been made to carry out any sort of plan, a prosperous relative came to our
                    home for a brief visit. After his departure, I learned that he had convinced my parents that the
                    surest road to success for me could be found through giving me a short course in a business college.
                    In addition, he had volunteered to loan $100 for the purpose, which he thought might be
                    sufficient to pay tuition board and room-rent for three months. He had known, or heard of, some
                    young persons who had learned enough about bookkeeping in about twelve weeks to obtain jobs.
            A few college catalogues had been sent to me just before my high school commencement. There was one
                    from 
                        Wabash
                     College, one from 
                        Hanover
                     College and one from the State Normal School at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Besides these three from schools of which I had heard, there was another, the annual
                    catalogue of the American Normal College.3 It was the plan 
                  
                     1 In the four Issues of 1936, there appeared four installments of what
                            was called "The Beginnings of a Possible Autobiography." In these, the
                            story of my life, to the time of graduation from high school, was briefly told. In the four
                            issues of 1937, the plan is to carry the autobiography through another period of years,
                            possibly to the year 1908.—Editor.
                  
                     2 Joseph F. Tuttle, D.D., President of 
                                Wabash
                             College from 1862 to 1892. The woman who took such a friendly interest in me
                            was Miss Rachel Crawford, a teacher in the Delphi schools, and teacher of my Sunday School
                            class.
                  
                     3 I received no catalogue from Indiana University, Purdue University,
                            or DePauw University. This seems a small matter, but there is a strong chance that I might
                            have entered Indiana University in 1891 instead of the State Normal School, had I received a
                            catalogue from the University in 1888 as I did from the Normal School.
               
                     at first that I should take a course in a commercial school in 
                        Lafayette
                    , but, if so, I must wait until September. The American Normal College was open
                    throughout the year, so the catalogue declared, and students could enter at any time. There was a
                    teachers' course, a music course, and, what intrigued me at the moment, a business course.
                    The regular terms were ten weeks each, but a short term of four weeks was to start in mid-summer.
                    For this short term, the cost for room, board and tuition was to be $25. At the end of
                    this term, one could go on without a break into the next term. This seemed to be exactly the chance
                    for which we were looking. As it would surely be possible to prepare for a career as an accountant
                    and business man in fourteen weeks, the cost of my education would not run beyond the
                    $100 which was in sight.
            The American Normal College was in 
                        Logansport
                     which was but little farther from our farm in one direction than was 
                        Lafayette
                     in the other. Preparations were soon completed, and I left Delphi for college on Monday
                    morning, July 23, 1888. The distance was soon covered on a 
                        Wabash
                     Railway train, and I was in the office of President Charles E. Kircher by the middle of
                    the forenoon. I immediately learned that the last ten-weeks term of the year was just closing, and
                    that the new short term would not begin till the following Monday. It did not seem best to return to
                    my home for a week, so I decided to take the advice of the President and get used to the place while
                    waiting for class work to begin. I was temporarily assigned to a room on the third floor, which I
                    was to share with a young man who had been on the scene for some time. The dining-room was in the
                    basement. In fact, everything was provided under one roof at this institution of learning. I mean
                    rooms, meals, and instruction, for, to get water, one must go out of the building and part way down
                    the hill.
            My stay at the American Normal College was not extended. Though without experience, a few hours
                    convinced me that the conditions at this temple of learning were not satisfactory, and I planned my
                    departure. I made my get-away on Wednesday afternoon. A bit later in the summer, I read an item in.
                    one of the Delphi papers, which recorded the closing of the institution. This was before the end of
                    the four weeks term, during which I was to have received the first portion of my business training.
            I recall that the annual commencement exercises were  about to
                    take place on Thursday or Friday, but I left a day or two too soon. It was because of this annual
                    event that classes were not meeting that week. Students were not returning to their homes, though
                    class-work was suspended and many of them were not planning to remain in school. The explanation is
                    that having paid their bills in advance, they could remain to the end of the week without extra
                    cost. Indeed they must remain to get all that was coming to them. There must have been from one
                    hundred to one hundred fifty students. There were the two proverbial literary societies, and the
                    members of each were extremely active and loyal. A near riot occurred in the early afternoon of my
                    first day, over a prospective member that each society was determined to land. I am sure of this, as
                    I was that prospective member and the innocent cause of the trouble.
            The name of the man in charge of the college dining hall was Joe Roop, I believe. All of the students
                    dined at the same time, morning, noon, and evening. I partook of Joe's fare seven times.
                    The charge was not great—eighty-four cents, according to my memory. Possibly it was a
                    little more or a little less. I can not recall the two breakfasts, but, at each of the other five
                    meals, potatoes and chicken gravy, but no chicken, were served. At noon on my last day, I asked a
                    young man who was dining with me (John Guthrie, whom I learned to know quite well in later years)
                    how it was possible to have chicken gravy so often with no tangible basis for the dish. His answer
                    was: "Oh, that's easy. Joe just hangs a rooster in the window and lets the shadow
                    fall in the pot."
            During the long afternoon of my first day, I passed through an hour of great mental anguish. I seemed
                    to be slated for a considerable period at the American Normal College, and I felt that I could not
                    go through with it. Seated alone on the hillside in my agony, it finally occurred to me to write to
                    my father and ask his permission to return home. This done, I felt better and soon I was able to see
                    the humor in the situation. My courage was greatly aided by the knowledge that I had not paid the
                    $25 fee covering all expenses for the four weeks term. This good fortune was due to no
                    wisdom or foresight on my part. I was very anxious to pay over the amount when I first visited the
                    President's office, and the school undoubtedly needed the cash. It was not time to collect
                    fees for the new term, however, so I was not given an opportunity to  pay the term bill a week in advance.
            By Wednesday morning, I was able to reflect that my letter might not be received at home for several
                    days. All would depend on whether my father should happen to make a trip to Delphi, as there was no
                    rural delivery then. It would be best to go home and make my explanations in person. I laid my plans
                    carefully, as I did not want anything to interfere with my decision. I went to Joe Roop and paid my
                    bills, and then packed my trunk, which Guthrie helped me to carry down to the street when no one was
                    looking. I had gone down town and engaged a drayman to come at one o'clock. When I arrived
                    in Delphi, I found my father there. He had come to town for some purpose, had received my letter,
                    and had attempted to reach me by phone at the College to tell me that I should return forthwith to
                    the parental roof. He was a bit puzzled that I could not be found, but encountered me in person soon
                    after his failure to contact me by long distance, and soon learned that all was well with me.
            I think that President Charles E. Kircher was a good man who was doing his best to operate a school
                    on slender resources in competition with larger and more successful institutions of a similar kind
                    at 
                        Valparaiso
                     and 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana. About thirteen years later, I met the Rev. Kircher again. He was then a
                    Presbyterian pastor in charge of a church somewhere in Indiana, and was brought to 
                        Elkhart
                     to preach a trial sermon before the congregation of the Presbyterian Church there. At
                    the time, I was a member of that church, but I did not remind the "candidate", as
                    one who preaches a trial sermon is generally called, that I had once met him, when a would-be
                    student, in the President's Office of the American Normal College.4
            
            It was on September 3, 1888, that I entered the Union Business College of 
                        Lafayette
                     to take a commercial course. This "College" occupied a large hall on
                    the second floor of a building on the north side of 
                        Columbia
                     Street about three blocks east of the Monon Railway which runs through the city on
                    Fifth Street. The head of the school was a gentleman from 
                  
                     4 The building occupied by the American Normal College stood at the
                            top of the bluff on the north side of the City. It was built from funds supplied by a number
                            of people, but Joshua Smithson of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, was the first to contribute toward the founding of the school, which
                            was to bear the name of "Smithson College." Smithson was an Englishman who
                            migrated to the 
                                United States
                             and made his home at 
                                Vevay
                            , where he engaged in Business. After his death, his widow added a considerable
                            amount to the Smithson College fund. The building was erected in 187–. It was
                            destroyed by fire not long after 1890. The Smithsons were Universalists who desired to see a
                            college where young people of that sect might be welcomed and educated.
               
                     the East, Principal C. M. Robinson. He was a handsome man, with
                    considerable business acumen, who showed a good deal of culture. I liked him and believe that he
                    developed quite a friendship for me, though I was called to his office several times on account of
                    activities that I should not have engaged in.
            The tuition for three months was $27, but I remained through four months paying a pro-rata
                    fee for the extra month. I found room and board with a family on North Fourth Street, about four
                    blocks from the Courthouse. This cost me four dollars per week. Four other students from the
                    Business College roomed and boarded at the same place. Two of these students were as young as I,
                    another was about five years older, and the fifth was about ten years my senior.5 These colleagues were conscientious, working students, each of whom set me a good example.
                    We became thoroughly acquainted and several strong friendships were formed. Not the least of our
                    pleasant associations were our meetings around the dining-table. Mrs. Garrett provided fairly good
                    meals, which we enjoyed, but we derived much pleasure as well from the conversation in which we
                    indulged. A number of times later, I boarded with larger groups of college students who met three
                    times a day about the same table. I am sure that there is, in these days of the college commons, and
                    numerous small "eating joints" (where food is served at all hours), a loss of
                    something of real value, that, in a former period, was always an accompaniment of the college
                    boarding club.
            There were about eighty students in the Union Business College when I was there and only two regular
                    instructors. Principal Robinson directed the work in bookkeeping and taught penmanship. There were
                    occasional recitations of the different groups who were learning to keep books, but most of the work
                    was individual. There was a daily writing period in the large room and most of the students made
                    real progress. The other instructor was a middle-aged school teacher who had been brought in from a
                    country district to teach commercial arithmetic and spelling. He was well-meaning and kind, but his
                    mind worked slowly and his methods were wooden. He could, of course, pronounce the words from the
                    business-speller 
                  
                     5 These students, who were all from nearby points in Indiana, were:
                            Ira Frankenfield of 
                                Dayton
                            ; Robert L. Winks of 
                                Williamsport
                            : Charles Wingard of Delphi (graduate of the Delphi High School, 1887); and
                            Wilson B. Lucas of Battle Ground.
               
                     and grade the papers by the lists of words in the book, but some
                    of the problems in arithmetic he could not solve. After a few weeks, I dropped both the spelling and
                    the arithmetic and gave more time to penmanship and bookkeeping. The teacher spoke to me about it,
                    but I did not take them up again. The matter was mentioned to me no more. If brought to the
                    attention of the Principal, he said nothing about it. I was only a boy of eighteen and I should have
                    been more docile, but I am still certain that I was well in advance of Mr. O. in both arithmetic and
                    spelling. Stenography and typewriting were also listed as optional subjects, but I believe that less
                    than ten students were enrolled in these courses. They were taught by a part-time instructor who
                    probably had a position with some business or professional firm.
            The student body was made up of persons who ranged in age from about fourteen to thirty. Some were
                    children who had lost interest or failed in the public schools. Others were country school teachers
                    who had been led to believe that a business course would open the doors to success in the commercial
                    world. Still others were high school graduates, who, like myself, believed that there were good jobs
                    ahead as bookkeepers for those who would apply themselves and make the brief but necessary
                        preparation.6
            
            At the end of four months, I went back to the farm, where there was always work to be done and where
                    board and lodging were free. For about a year, I continued to expect a job, but none came. I was
                    disappointed and discouraged. I was out of touch with the business world. I had few contacts with
                    anyone who might have employed me in any capacity, even in our small county seat or in the villages
                    where I had some acquaintances. If I could have started as a delivery clerk, or in some equally
                    responsible "position", I might have worked up to something, and, along the way,
                    my slight acquaintance with ledgers and balance sheets might have helped me. As it was, I had been
                    filled with the idea that I surely would obtain a job as a bookkeeper within a reasonable time,
                    though under the circumstances this was really out of the question.
            I wrote to an old acquaintance of my parents who had 
                  
                     6 The income from tuition fees collected from students in the Union
                            Business College must have been about $7500 for the nine months that the school
                            was open each year. The outlay for teaching was about $900, and other expenses
                            were perhaps as much as $1600 for the year. With a student body of eighty to
                            ninety, the net income of the principal was about $6000 per year.
               
                     long lived in 
                        Denver
                    . He was a business man with some influence, but he replied that 
                        Denver
                     was over-run with bookkeepers who were living in 
                        Colorado
                     because of weak lungs. I borrowed $2.50, and joined an Accountants'
                    Bureau of Witchita, 
                        Kansas
                    , early in the year 1889. The managers did not promise a job, but did promise to put me
                    in touch with persons wanting a bookkeeper. It was not long until a notice came that I should apply
                    for a position with Washmeyer, Hartley & Raub, a firm located somewhere in Indian Territory.
                    I made my first formal application for a job, following carefully all the rules that had been
                    recommended to me. After waiting restlessly for about two weeks, I received a reply from a Mr.
                    Richter, of Hartley & Richter, successors to Washmeyer, Hartley & Raub. The vacancy
                    had been filled before the receipt of my application, the place going to a young man from some town
                    in 
                        Kansas
                    . Mr. Richter added that, for my sake, he was sorry that I was late. This was just
                    before the opening of 
                        Oklahoma
                     to settlement.
            Spring and summer went by, while I marked time by working steadily on the farm. During these slow
                    passing months, or, to be more specific, on March 1, 1889, a Mr. Demas Simpson Thomas, who had
                    purchased the farm adjoining ours on the south, moved into the neighborhood. The family consisted of
                    himself, his wife and one daughter. The daughter, then almost fifteen years of age, was destined to
                    play a large part in my life as she became my wife several years later.
            In this period, while the belief that I must crash into the business world still possessed my spirit,
                    I met a young man, older than myself, who gave me a new idea. He had gone to 
                        Chicago
                     twice, where he was able to find work in some store each time, merely by
                    "running his facequot;. He recommended this easy method to me. I failed to ask him why he
                    was not still in the great city adding one success to another, but, though superficial, my adviser
                    was suave and fluent and could readily have given a plausible explanation. I incubated the idea for
                    a long time, and then found an opportunity to try it out. An excursion to 
                        Chicago
                     was advertised by the Monon Railway for a Wednesday early in September. The round-trip
                    fare from Delphi was $1.50. The special train would reach 
                        Chicago
                     at about eleven A.M., and return at night. My plan was to buy a round-trip ticket, but
                    not to come back, in order to save $1.85 on the regular one way fare. I made my
                    preparations  which included the purchase of a fair-sized valise.
                    It was made of dark gray canvas-cloth decorated with plenty of tan leather in addition to the
                    straps. It looked well, but I felt that I should carry along some ledgers, journals and daybooks
                    that I had worked through and my bookkeeping text, which added too much weight.
            Soon after my arrival in 
                        Chicago
                    , a slow rain began to fall. I bought an umbrella. It did not cost much, and it looked
                    quite neat before it was opened up. I soon discovered that it was a real family umbrella, which,
                    after the first use, always looked like those of Uncle Josh that are shown in cartoons in spite of
                    anything that I could do to it. I engaged a room in a small, clean, well managed hotel on State
                    Street for which I paid fifty cents a day. I was able to get my meals at surprisingly low prices at
                    various convenient restaurants. If I could just find a job, all would be well. I took the precaution
                    on my second day to put away in a separate pocket $3.35, the fare to Delphi. On Thursday
                    and Friday, I went to many parts of the City, using the street-cars. I bought newspapers and
                    answered want-ads. I called at several places to ask for work. I wrote several letters home, not one
                    of which was received until after my return. I held out until Saturday night, living on five cents
                    worth of buns the last day. It was quite an experience for a nineteen-year old youth, and there were
                    no regrets except in regard to the position that I did not find.
            My train left 
                        Chicago
                     at 8:30 P.M. and reached Delphi at 12:30 A.M. I was again in familiar territory, but I
                    was a bit over four miles from home with a heavy valise, a large umbrella (strapped on the side of
                    said valise), and I had eaten nothing save six light buns since Friday. Nevertheless, I started on
                    the long walk with no misgivings. When I was nearly half way home, I looked back and saw a man
                    walking in my direction nearly a quarter of a mile behind me. I decided to out-walk him, but he
                    constantly gained on me though I did my best. I detached my umbrella, for use in case of necessity,
                    and slowed down. When this pedestrian came near, I found that he was a middle-aged, unmarried
                    carpenter, who lived with a family in our neighborhood. Possibly he slackened his pace, but I think
                    not. At any rate, I did not fall behind during the remainder of that walk.
            From the time of my return until the Christmas holidays, I hauled gravel, hauled cordwood, husked
                    corn, helped work  a cross-cut saw, and did many other jobs that
                    farm life can furnish in fall and winter.7 January found me occupying a seat in
                    the country school where I had been a pupil before entering high school. My object was to review all
                    the "common branches" and then take the teacher's examination in an
                    attempt to obtain a license. In that period, the only requirements to be met before becoming a
                    teacher were: the possession of a license; the attainment of the proper age; "good moral
                    character"; and a contract with a Township Trustee or School Board. I stayed in school six weeks,
                    working regularily with the eighth grade pupils, but also covering what the class had passed over
                    during the early part of the term and what they would study in the latter part of the term, after
                    the date when I planned to withdraw. I went to the county seat and wrote on the February list of
                    State Board questions. As a result I was granted a twelve-months license.8 I did
                    not obtain a school before the opening of the term in September, but, after about a month had
                    passed, the teacher of the home school was shifted to a district northeast of Delphi and I was
                    placed in charge of about forty-five pupils with all the grades from the chart class to those who
                    would finish the eighth grade in the spring of 1891.
            Having concluded my review work at the end of February, I went back to farm activities, to which I
                    devoted my time until about July 1. Then I began to work at a small factory which produced draintile
                    of varying sizes from three to ten inches in diameter. The tile factory had been established in
                    1886, less than a quarter of a mile from our home, but on the opposite side of the highway. In the
                    spring of 1890, the business changed hands and the new proprietor, who was a tile manufacturer of 
                        Hendricks County
                    , Indiana, sent a force of five men from his own community, to which he added one young
                    man from South Delphi. After a few months, one of the laborers left his job. I was taken on as a
                    temporary hand, so I 
                  
                     7 In this period, I tried to get started in the business of
                            selling' electric belts at $3.00 each. To begin, I must buy two belts at
                            half price, persuade two persons with back trouble to wear them, and obtain a testimonial
                            from each. After that, I was to be given a virgin territory, when great success was sure to
                            come to me provided I should show the requisite energy and business ability. To make the
                            story brief, this venture did not work out in accordance with what was outlined in the
                            literature sent me. I purchased the two belts, found two elderly persons to use them,
                            obtained the testimonials, made no sales, and surrendered the job with all of its
                            possibilities at the end of a few weeks.
                  
                     8 The regular common school licenses were issued for six months,
                            twelve months, twenty-four months, and thirty-six months. The grade of license issued,
                            depended on the average of grades in all the subjects included, and on the lowest grade made
                            by the applicant in any subject. The subjects covered by the examination questions were:
                            writing, spelling, history, physiology, grammar, geography, arithmetic, reading and science
                            of education. The County Superintendent graded the manuscripts.
               
                     supposed, but was retained until I began to teach in October.
                    One man hauled dirt from the pit; another shoveled this dirt, after treating it with a prescribed
                    amount of water, into the hopper of the mill (called "filling the gum"); a third
                    man cut the tile with a revolving frame across which steel wires were stretched at regular
                    intervals. The "off-bearer" had merely to grasp the frame and bring it down firmly
                    and quickly to cut off four tiles from the tube of moist, moulded earth. He set the
                    "green" tile on a flat car, which when loaded was pushed back into a long shed by
                    the fourth man, who replaced the filled car with an empty one. I was the fourth laborer. It was my
                    duty to set the newly made tile on strips of wood, in one after another of the many stalls in the
                    long drying shed. The small sizes were easy to put in place, but the larger tiles required expert
                    handling.
            The fifth man on the force operated the steam-engine which furnished the power for the mill and for
                    the water-pump. The sixth man cared for the kiln in which the tile were burned. When tile were
                    properly finished and cooled, the entire force worked together to empty the kiln and rick the tile
                    on the yard. Likewise, the entire gang worked together to refill the kiln. I labored at this factory
                    for three months. My wages were seventy-five cents per day and meals. One member of the force became
                    ill and died during August, and still later another left for his home in 
                        Hendricks County
                     because of a temporary sickness. New men were picked up to fill these vacancies, one of
                    whom was beyond sixty years of age. He had for many years owned an elevator (warehouse) in Delphi.
                    He had also carried on a sort of private banking business. For many years he had been a more or less
                    successful buyer and seller of futures in connection with the 
                        Chicago
                     Board of Trade. Now, his job was to shovel dirt into the hopper of the mill. This he
                    did day after day without complaint. One day when engine trouble caused a halt for a time, this
                    dapper, little gentleman, with a neatly trimmed full-beard, a pleasant voice, and an excellent
                    command of English, told several of us some interesting facts. "The most money I ever made
                    in one day was $3,000", he remarked. "The most I ever lost in one day
                    was $9,000quot;. He believed that his failure in business was due not to working the
                    Board of Trade, but to working it too steadily. He was not bitter. He did not want any sympathy. He
                    went along working very cheerfully for seventy-five cents  a day
                    and board. It is a pleasure to record that some of his old friends were able after a few weeks to
                    obtain an office job for this elderly man in 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, which he held during the remainder of his active life.9
            
            There were no regular pay-days in connection with the little manufacturing institution for which I
                    worked. Workmen were paid such sums as it seemed absolutely necessary for them to have, from two to
                    three weeks after their requests were made. We lived simple lives, and, receiving board and room,
                    not much cash was required. I spent my nights at home, and usually got my breakfast there except
                    when I was detailed to cook for the factory force. I do not remember the exact amount, but am sure
                    that I was ahead as much as thirty dollars when I quit my job. The proprietor settled with all the
                    employes soon after I severed my connections with his factory. I did not begin my teaching career
                    with money in the bank, but I did have a few dollars in my pocket. I was a young man of twenty when
                    I took charge of the country school in the neighborhood where I was born and where I grew up. I did
                    not accept the job because I felt a "call" to the work, but because there seemed
                    to be no other chance to get a start in life.10 My conscience still hurts me for
                    imposing myself on that room-full of young hopefuls, but, like thousands of other young men, I had
                    to find myself, and used the public schools as the means to that end.
            
               
                  9 The name of this gentleman was Jacob Bridge.
               
                  10 My wages were $2.40 per day, for five days per week. The
                        school was in Deer Greek Township, which maintained a slightly higher wage scale than was paid
                        in the remainder of 
                            Carroll County
                         to teachers in country schools.
            
         
         
         
            The article, "
                        Jennings County
                     in the Frontier Period", which appeared in our last issue (December, 1936),
                    contained two errors which have been called to our attention. In the first line of page 378, the
                    name Zenas Kimberlin should be Zenas Kimberly. We are indebted
                    to Mrs. George W. Thornton of 
                        Indianapolis
                     for this correction. On the same page, in the second line of the paragraph beginning,
                    "In July, 1817", the name Chapman Denton should be Chapman Denslow. Mr. Hugh Th. Miller of 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, wrote us in regard to this mistake. Both names were found, in old printed
                    accounts, by Miss Alice Bundy as spelled in her article, but evidently some one had blundered in
                    regard to each. Miss Bundy is grateful for the correction in each case.
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Miss Mildred Stoler of Anderson, Indiana, is now a
                    graduate student at Indiana University. Arthur Deen of Branchville, Indiana, is also a student in
                    the Graduate School of Indiana University. Miss Elsie C. Sinclair lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Dr. Theodore C. Gronert is professor of history in 
                        Wabash
                     College, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana. Miss Janice Rudd, a newspaper reporter, lives in 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana. Dr. Harvey Wish, who is an instructor in history in De Paul University, 
                        Chicago
                    , was, for four months in 1936, Research Technician, for the Survey of Federal Archives
                    in 
                        Illinois
                    , Dr. Russell H. Anderson being Regional Director and William E. Austin Assistant
                    Regional Director of the Survey in that state. Bertha Thomas (Mrs. William O.) Lynch lives in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. Martha Tucker (Mrs. Harvey) Morris, editor of the Genealogical Section, lives
                    in 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana, Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Bequests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to com plete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices
                    above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write
                    to the Indiana. Magazine of Histor.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                  
                     * Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                  Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
                  Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
                  Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
                  Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
                  
                     * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                  
                     * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                  
                     * Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 190–918, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               183–833. Wanted 3 copies.
               183–834. Wanted 3 copies.
               183–835. Wanted 3 copies.
               183–837. Wanted 2 copies.
               183–838. Wanted 2 copies.
               183–840. Wanted 2 copies.
               184–841. Wanted 2 copies.
               184–844. Wanted 2 copies.
               184–850. Wanted 2 copies.
               185–854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 189–899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (190–929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy
                    Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for
                    any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at
                    $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            Two Genealogy Sections
            ANNA POUCHER
            
            The correlation of history and genealogy is so obvious that to call attention to it, other than for
                    the sake of emphasis, is as superfluous as carrying coals to 
                        Newcastle
                    . The history of a locality is bound up with the lives of its people. The branches of a
                    family tree are intertwined with an accumulated growth of history.
            Genealogy, per se, might soon die of its own boredom. If its pursuit led along a
                    dusty road only to the finding of some links in a family chain, there would be justification for
                    that attitude of antipathy which many people hold toward the word genealogy. But
                    genealogy is more than this. It is a portrayal of the drama of life through succeeding epochs of
                    history. Rather, it is an entire literature of life, for its byways and lanes lead into romance and
                    poetry, tragedy and much comedy, biography and history. This is what gives to the quest for an
                    ancestry that fascination from which the devotee cannot and does not care to free himself.
            The genealogical importance of a state is determined largely by three rather inter-dependent
                    factors—namely, geographical position, age, and the character of its record. That section
                    of the 
                        United States
                     which is now recognized as Indiana, has always benefited, both from migrations and
                    other forces, from being on the line of march. The territorial years, plus almost a century and a
                    quarter of statehood, have built up for Indiana an established place in history. Position and age,
                    with some unusual contributory influences, have combined to make of that history and its attendant
                    genealogy a record worthy of investigation.
            Indiana is becoming more and more a fertile field for genealogical research. Its records are being
                    sought not only by its own people" but by those of other states with Indiana connections.
                    For this reason, an additional source of information becomes of widespread interest. The news of the
                    inauguration of a section in the Indiana Magazine of History to be devoted to
                    Indiana Genealogy and to be conducted by Mrs. Harvey Morris of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, spread with almost the swiftness of telepathy. That the section takes on the
                    nature of a tribunal before which one can lay his case, causes even greater  rejoicing. Its auspicious start and its enthusiastic reception augur
                    well for its future, and it is both hoped and urged that through interest of its patrons and
                    additional subscriptions to the Magazine, the section will receive the support
                    necessary for its continuance.
            While there is no official connection between the Genealogy Section of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History and the Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library, it is purposed
                    that the two shall co-operate to the extent of a mutual helpfulness. Their very differences and
                    distinctions should work toward successful results. It can readily be seen that the Section in the
                        Magazine will fulfill a long-felt need which the Library Section cannot meet,
                    for the latter does not undertake the research necessary to the supplying of links in a family
                    history. Its purpose is to answer the very definite requests which can be handled through indices
                    and readily available guides, to direct in the use of the material in the Library, and to suggest,
                    whenever possible, sources where information may be found. Since no material circulates from the
                    Genealogical Section of the State Library, the disadvantage to that patron who cannot visit the
                    Library in person, is met with a limited amount of copying and with a somewhat greater effort to put
                    this patron in touch with the material in the library. The actual work of research is to be done by
                    the person in quest of facts, or by that one, not connected with the Library staff, whom he may
                    choose to carry on the investigation.
            An extensive system of indexing is in progress under the direction of Miss Leona Tobey, assistant in
                    the genealogy room. This will be a constantly increasing aid to both patron and librarian in
                    promoting accessibility of records. Already the genealogy catalog, which is supplementary to the
                    main catalog of the State Library, contains the lists of family and local histories and many
                    analytical references. Several indexing projects are in process, the chief one being the
                    alphabetizing on cards of the names of heads of families as found in the photostat copies of the
                    Indiana census records for 1820 and 1830. While the work on many of the counties of the 1820 record
                    is finished and the cards filed, it will be some months before the entire list is complete. The
                    Society of Indiana Pioneers and the Indiana Historical Society have aided materially in
                    contributions for the thousands of cards necessary  for the
                    project. Other important records are being indexed, in some cases the service of patrons being
                    offered gratis and accepted gratefully. Mrs. J. M. Hopkins, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is indexing the scrapbooks containing the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Transcript clippings. Mr. Willard E. Wight, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has already finished an alphabetical list of names of Indiana Pensioners in the 1835
                    pension roll, and has begun work on the rolls of other states.
            The editor of the Genealogy Section of the Magazine has kindly offered occasional
                    space for lists of material and other items from the Library which may tend to keep the two sections
                    in close relationship. Both sections are new, the Library Section having been opened to the public
                    March 1, 1934. Up to that time the work had been carried on by the Reference and Indiana History
                    Divisions of the library. But so well were the foundations laid during the years of the
                    Library's existence, both as to material and methods of work and the later cataloging of
                    the separated collection, that the first librarian of the new section found the way already paved.
            It is impossible at this time to do more than suggest the nature of the material which is being added
                    to the Library. More detailed lists. will appear later. The request that the people of Indiana make
                    the Library a depository for their family histories is meeting with a liberal response and should be
                    kept in mind. Many of these histories in manuscript, pamphlet, chart, and book form are being
                    received. Local histories and miscellaneous material have been acquired through donations and
                    through purchase. Sets, which may be difficult to obtain later on, are receiving especial attention,
                    such as, for instance, the volumes of the 
                  
                            Vermont
                         Historical Gazetteer. The publications of the Harleain Society of 
                        England
                    , comprising parish registers and visitations of the heralds will help in standardizing
                    the collection in the genealogy room. Strassburger's volumes on the 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         German Pioneers, giving lists of arrivals at the port of 
                        Philadelphia
                     between 1727 and 1808 with names of ships, is a distinct addition. William Wade
                    Hinshaw's first volume of the Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy, recently off the press, has been in constant use since its
                    reception. The library is fortunate in having the seven collections on 
                        Virginia
                     history covered by the new two-volume 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Historical Index, which contains over twenty-two hundred pages of references.
            
            The coöperation of the patriotic and historical societies in Indiana leaves little to be
                    desired. The Indiana Society of Mayflower Descendants has deposited its entire collection here, thus
                    putting it at the disposal of patrons using the library. The Society of Colonial Wars has done
                    likewise. The Society of Colonial Dames is placing its memorial volumes here. The Daughters of
                    Founders and Patriots have given lineage books and separate volumes. The Daughters of the American
                    Revolution continue to place in the library one copy of each of the genealogical records compiled by
                    the various chapters in the state. Gifts have been received from the Sons of the American
                    Revolution, the Children of the American Revolution, and Daughters of 1812. Noteworthy among
                    cemetery records are those of 
                        Ripley County
                    , compiled by Miss Violet E. Toph of 
                        Versailles
                     and Mr. Harry O. Carman of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the work having been done under the auspices of the Indiana Historical Society.
            The Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library, being the older of the two sections, extends the
                    right hand of fellowship to the Genealogy Section of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History, and congratulates it on its opportunity and ability not only to furnish much needed
                    information but to become a real force in focusing attention on Indiana genealogy and to help in
                    keeping Indiana in pace with other states that are meeting the "wave of genealogy"
                    which sweeps the country. May the new Section live long and prosper.
         
         
         
            The Jonas Hoover Family
            WILLIAM M. RESER
            
            Andreas Huber (Andrew Hoover) and Margaret Pfautz (Fouts) were both born in 
                        Germany
                    . They came to America while young. Margaret came on the ship William and
                        Sarah, which arrived at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on September 18, 1727. Andreas came on the ship Two Sisters and
                    landed in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on September 9, 1738. Both settled in 
                  Lancaster
                        County, Pennsylvania
               , where they
                    first met and where they were ultimately married (1745?). They moved to 
                        Maryland
                    , settling on Pipe Creek, and later to 
                        North Carolina
                    . There they lived the remainder of their lives on the Uwharrie
                    River, in 
                        Randolph County
                    . (Frederick A. Virkus, editor, Abridged Compendium of American
                    Genealogy, I, 370; V, 594; National Genealogical Quarterly, Mar. 1929, VII,
                    7.)
            Thirteen children, eight sons and five daughters, were born to Andrew and Margaret Fouts Hoover. The
                    record of their fourth son follows: 
                        Daniel Hoover: b. Md., 1756; died, 
                                Montgomery
                             Co., O., Feb. 13, 1819; m. Hanna Mast in N.C. Hanna, dau. of John and Barbara
                            Mast. Barbara dau. of Cutliffe and Sarah (Fouts) Harman.
                    
            
            Daniel and Hanna Hoover came to that part of 
                        Ohio
                     north of 
                        Lebanon
                     in the fall of 1801. On March 20, 1802, they settled on land ten miles north of
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , on Stillwater River. This land was in the
                    family till after the floods of 1913. At death, Daniel Hoover left nine heirs. (
                        Montgomery
                     Co., O., Administration Docket, Case No. 361, p. 69.)
            
                    
                  Children of Daniel and Hanna (Mast) Hoover: 
                     Andrew Hoover: b. N.C., Mar. 12, 1788; d, 1863; m. Sarah Sinks. Sarah, dau. George and
                                Mollie (Wagoner) Sinks. Andrew and Sarah Hoover came to 
                                    Marion
                                 Co., Ind., settling near Maywood. Left ten children at death.
                     
                                Jonas Hoover: b. N.C., 1791; d. 
                                        Marion
                                     Co., Ind., 1846. Came to 
                                        Marion
                                     Co. in 1820 or 1821; entered 80 a. land in 
                                        Marion
                                     Co. in July, 1821 (Sec. 14, Tp. 16 N., Range 3 E); also entered 80 a.
                                    at or near the present 
                                        Marion
                                     Co. Infirmery in Oct., 1823 (West 1/2 of S. W. % of Sec. 29,
                                    Tp. 16 N., R 3 E). Today his tombstone stands alone at the east side of Kessler
                                    Boulevard and south of (but near) 30th Street (Riverside Park), at the east side of
                                    (almost against) a large tree. Data on the marker: "Jonas Hoover; Died
                                    1846, age 55." This would make his birth year 1791.
                                Jonas Hoover (presumably the same one as above), m. Mary Deal  in 
                                        Montgomery
                                     Co. O., April 4, 1826 (probably no children by this marriage as none
                                    are mentioned in guardian records). Jonas Hoover, m. Ruth Foster (second wife) in 
                                        Marion
                                     Co., Ind., on Mar. 2, 1837; four children: Mary Margaret, John W.,
                                    Andrew, and Sarah Ellen (Guardianship Docket 1, 
                                        Marion
                                     Co., Ind.) Andrew Hoover, brother of Jonas, guardian.
                            
                     Mary Hoover: b. N.C., Feb. 17, 1793; migrated to 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., 
                                    Ohio
                                , with parents (Daniel and Hanna Hoover) in 1801; m. Martin Sheets; lived on
                                    Stillwater River, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., till death; d. April 15, 1894, at age of 101; eleven children.
                     Eva Hoover: b. 1797; m. Jacob Burkett (son of David and Susannah (Fouts) Burkett;
                                lived in 
                                    Wayne
                                 Tp., Henry Co., Ind.; ten children. (The name Burkett, is
                                often found Byrkett, Byrket, and Burket. Even in the same Bible, it is
                                often spelled more than one way).
                     Susannah Hoover: b, 1803; d. April 23, 1863; age 60 yrs. (tombstone record says 63
                                years, which would make birth year 1800); m. in 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., O., Jan. 31, 1819, to Abraham Coble (son of Anthony and Mary Coble);
                                moved to 
                                    Marion
                                 Co., Ind., and settled where Flack-ville is now located; buried in West
                                Union Cemetery (part of their farm); five children.
                     Daniel Hoover: b, 1803; d. Jan. 21, 1885; buried in Minnich Cemetery, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., O.; m, 1822 to Susan Burkett. Susan, b. Ashe Co., N.C., July 20, 1802;
                                d. April 15, 1887; dau. of David and Susannah (Fouts) Burkett. Susannah Fouts, dau.
                                David and Elizabeth (Hoover) Fouts. Elizabeth Hoover, one of five daughters of Andrew
                                and Margaret (Fouts) Hoover. Daniel and Susan Hoover lived near Union, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., O.; ten children.
                  
               
                
            This record shows quite a crossing of the two families. Of the ten children of Daniel and Susan
                    Hoover, five were born blind. They were known more than a half century ago as the "Blind
                    Hoovers." They were educated and possessed musical talent. They gave concerts over 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana and as far west as 
                        Missouri
                    .
            
                    
                  7. Nancy Hoover: b, 1804; d. after 1850; m. Henry Woods; lived in 
                                Vermillion
                             Co., Ill.; nine children.
                  8. Michael Hoover: b. (?); d, 1823; buried in Green Lawn Cemetery, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; m. Catherine Fouts. Catherine, dau. Andrew and Barbara (Follen) Fouts; no
                            children. Catherine, (widow of Michael Hoover), m. Samuel Fetters; ten children by this
                            marriage. [The grave of Michael Hoover was near White River and was
                            swept away by flood-waters years ago].
                  9. David Hoover (Dates of birth and death unknown).
               
                
            David Hoover did not marry until some years after death of his father, Andrew Hoover. No wife signed
                    a deed made by him, dated Sept. 27,1831. David Hoover of 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana," to Daniel Hoover of 
                        Montgomery
                     Co., O., Administrator.  The deed related to David
                    Hoover's interest in a legacy of his father, Daniel Hoover, deceased. The land in question
                    was in 
                        Montgomery
                     Co., O. (Deed Book T, p. 236).
            This seems to have been the David Hoover who married Elizabeth Harris (or Haines) in 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, Sept. 11, 1834. His will dated July 20, 1837, mentions a "wife
                    Elizabeth" and bequeaths "$50 each to my brothers and sisters and
                    remainder to my wife." Andrew Wilson and Elizabeth Hoover were the executors.
            
                    
                  Children of Jonas (second son of Daniel and Hanna Hoover) and Ruth
                            (Foster) Hoover: 
                     Mary Margaret Hoover, b, 1837; d, 1895 (
                                    California
                                ); m. John Sinks, Oct. 9, 1856. John, b. Feb. 24, 1835; d. Feb. 5, 1866;
                                buried in Mt. Jackson Cemetery, 
                                    Marion
                                 Co., Ind.; three children (Henry A., Asher O., Lenora E.). Mary Margaret
                                Hoover, m. (2) Zachariah Garrison, Vigo Co., Ind.; two children (Charles, d. 
                                    Los Angeles
                                ; George, d.—).
                     John W. Hoover, b, 1839; d.——; m. Mary Ann Sylvester (This
                                marriage not verified, but statement is based on a marriage license bearing those
                                names). Civil War Service in Co. H, Eleventh Indiana Volunteers.
                     Andrew Hoover, b, 1842; d.——in 
                                    Kansas
                                . Served in Civil War, Co. C, Seventy-ninth Indiana Volunteers.
                     Sarah Ellen Hoover, b, 1845; d. May 15, 1889; buried Prairieville Cemetery, Howard
                                Co., Ind.; m. Gilbert Vansickle, Oct. 5, 1864. Gilbert, b, 1838; d. Oct., 1904; four
                                children.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of Gilbert and Sarah Ellen (Hoover) Vansickle: 
                     Nora Vansickle, m. Stephen L. Wilson; living 10 m. west of 
                                    Kokomo
                                ; two children (Mabel and Ruth).
                     Learie Vansickle, b.——; d. June 19, 1895; m. George W. Lybrook.
                                George, living Russiaville, Ind.; two children (Ray Gilbert and Georgia Rachel, both
                                married).
                     Joseph D. Vansickle, b. Feb. 9, 1867; m. Orpha O. Duncan, Sept. 9, 1888; living south
                                of Russiaville, Ind. Orpha O., dau. Francis M. and Hannah E. (Runk) Duncan; eight
                                children.
                     John Vansickle, b. July 20, 1876 (?);d. Nov. 3, 1894.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of Joseph D. and Orpha O. (Duncan) Vansickle: 
                     Hazel E. Vansickle, m. Otis R. Haynes; living Russiaville, Ind., R.R. 2; one child
                                (Luther).
                     Grace H. Vansickle, m. Erwin W. Bailey; living Shade Hill, S.D.;
                                two children (James and Orpha).
                     Herman Vansickle, m. Anna Gail Augustine; living near Delphi, Ind.; three children
                                (Ruth, Elizabeth and Duncan).
                     Maggie L. Vansickle, m. Arthur C. Miller.
                     John M. Vansickle, unmarried; living 
                                    Kokomo
                                , Ind.
                     Samuel Gilbert Vansickle, m. Mrs. Nellie (Shirk) Dellinger; living 
                                    Kokomo
                                 (320 E. Main St.); two children (Samuel and Clara Ellen).
                     
                     Joseph O. Vansickle, m. Esther Turner; living 
                                    Hammond
                                , Ind.; three children (Janet, Joan and Fred).
                     Franklin E. Vansickle, m. Mary Ardelle Main; living 
                                    Kokomo
                                , Ind., R.R. 5.
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            The Strangeman Hutchins Family
            By EDWARD C. CRIDER
            
            Strangeman Hutchins, son of Nicholas Hutchins, was born in 
                        Virginia
                     in 1707, and died in 
                        Surry County
                     (now 
                        Yadkin County
                    ), 
                        North Carolina
                    , on Feb. 10, 1792. Strangeman probably lived in 
                        Henrico County
                     until his marriage, about 1731, to Elizabeth Cox, daughter of Richard and Mary Cox.
                    Elizabeth Cox was born on Feb. 25, 1713, in 
                        Virginia
                    , and died, according to Thomas W. Barrett, in 
                        North Carolina
                     at the age of 103.
            Strangeman Hutchins had eleven children: Mary Brooks, Edith Stanley, John Hutchins, Nicholas
                    Hutchins, Elizabeth Barnett, Obedience Harding, Thomas Hutchins, Jane Bar-nett, Milla Hutchins,
                    Lydia Johnson and Benjamin Hutchins. The family name of each, so far as is known, is given.
            Nicholas Hutchins was the forbear of this Hutchins family. He was a 
                        Quaker
                     living in 
                  Henrico County, Virginia
               , and belonged to the Henrico Monthly
                    Meeting at Curies and later to the White Oak Swamp Meeting. Nicholas Hutchins and Mary Watkins were
                    married at a public meeting of the Friends, in 
                  Henrico
                        County, Va.
               , on Aug. 9, 1701.
                    Tradition gives the birth of Nicholas as 1645. He was married twice. We do not know the name of the
                    first wife, nor whether there were any children by this marriage. The Children of Nicholas and Mary
                    (Watkins) Hutchins as shown by deeds and Church records were: 
                        Strangeman Hutchins; Catherine Hutchins, m. James Stanley, March 5, 1728; Mary Hutchins, m.
                            Daniel Harris; Martha Hutchins, m. John Stanley (brother of James), Oct.
                            11, 1743 (Martha, the second wife).
                    
            
            Nicholas Hutchins, his son Strangeman, and four grandsons moved to 
                  Surry County, North Carolina
               .
                    This move together with 
                        Quaker
                     records makes it possible to keep this particular Hutchins line separate from others of
                    the same name. The Nicholas Hutchins land grant was located about twelve miles, by present paved
                    road, down the James River from the site of 
                        Richmond
                    . It was about three miles below Dutch Gap.
            Besides those of the name Hutchins, who came to the Colony of 
                        Virginia
                    , possibly as early as 1625, there are several "Immigrant Ancestral
                    Lines" in allied families: the Watkins,  the Cox, the
                    Stanley, the Barnett, the McGehee, the Harding, the Harris and the Trent families.
            Strangeman Hutchins was a very prominent member of the Friend's Church. There was a small
                    meeting at Genito Creek, but his principal activity was at the great central meeting at Cedar Creek,
                    in 
                        Hanover County
                    . His name is first found on the Cedar Creek records in 1741. From that time until 1786,
                    when he moved to 
                        North Carolina
                    , his name is continually on the records as a witness, as a member of committees, as a
                    representative, as an overseer, as a clerk, as an elder. As one reads between the lines of the
                    record, he realizes that Strangeman Hutchins, was a man of amazing vitality and remarkable ability.
            Strangeman Hutchins was sixty-eight years old when the Revolutionary War began, and seventy-three by
                    the time the War reached 
                        Virginia
                    . He was too old to take part in the War even if his 
                        Quaker
                     faith had not forbidden. A record for Patriotic service was found in 
                        Goochland County
                     (Va.) and Mrs. Gussie Waymire Crider made application to the D.A.R. and proved the
                    service. Any member of the family desiring to join the Daughters of the American Revolution may
                    refer to Mrs. Crider's application for proof of service.
            [Editor's Note: This fine record of a 
                        Quaker
                     family, has been published in a booklet of unusual interest (Jan. 10, 1935). It is not
                    a commercial venture, but represents a sincere desire to save the records and honor of this early
                    American family. The four generations of the "Family of Strangeman Hutchins, and his wife
                    Elizabeth Cox," as far as known in 1935, have been carefully authenticated from 
                        Quaker
                     records, tombstones, census records, Bible records, marriage bonds, and county records.
                    The descendants of Strangeman Hutchins, said to number more than forty thousand, owe a debt of
                    gratitude to Edward C. Crider and his wife Gussie Waymire Crider of 
                        Kokomo
                    , Indiana. This booklet may be found in many Libraries of
                Indiana.—M.T.M.]
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            
               Attention: Queries should be typed to avoid mistakes in names and dates. They must
                    be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should be brief and definite. Answers for
                    publication will be appreciated. In connection with any answer, the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given. Traditions must be
                    verified. Bible records are requested for publication. Mail answers to Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris,
                    Salem, Indiana.
            Query 16: ELMORE FAMILY
            Archelaus Elmore married Ann Hutchins. She was born in 
                        Virginia
                    , about 1775, the daughter of Thomas and Patty (Chiles) Hutchins. The date of her death
                    is not known. The second wife of Archelaus Elmore was named Hannah, but her surname is unknown. She
                    was born in 1786, in N.C. Since the time of this marriage is not known, it is difficult to know the
                    dividing line between the two sets of children. Several of the twelve children moved to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Ind. Branson Mills married Elizabeth Elmore, and they with their son John moved to 
                        Boone County
                    , Indiana. Information from descendants of this family, will be
                    appreciated.—E. E. C.
            Query 17. HUTCHINS FAMILY
            Benjamin Hutchins, son of Meredith and Susan (Fitzgerald) Hutchins, was born in 1797 and died in
                    1866. His second wife, he married in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1838, Abigal McPherson. Among the children of Benjamin Hutchins were Jane, Susanah,
                    Mary, James, Lydia, Dorothy, Cornelius, and perhaps several others. Lydia married John Sinks.
                    Dorothy married James Purdy. Jane married Samuel Orpit. Susanah probably married Jacob Snell. Would
                    like to hear from descendants of this family.—E. E. C.
            Query 18: AUSMAN (OSMUM) FAMILY
            Abner and Noah Ausman lived in the neighborhood of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind., and Buck Creek, Ind., in the same county. Want to know place and date of birth
                    of Abner and Noah Ausman, and the name of the wife of Abner Ausman, with place and date of her
                    birth. Any information will be appreciated.—E.S.
            Query 19: WINE FAMILY
            George Wine, Sr., was born in 
                        Maryland
                    , on Mar. 9, 1785, and died on Aug. 6, 1870 in 
                        Marion
                    , Grant Co., Ind. Keturah, his wife, was born on Sept. 10, 1788, and died on Oct. 9,
                    1846.  They are buried in the Burson Cemetery, four miles east
                    of 
                        Marion
                    , Ind. Of the twelve children of this family, Lydia was born on Feb, 18,1809, and died
                    in 1865. She married Samuel Brumley and lived at 
                        Jonesboro
                    , Grant Co., Ind. Descendants of this family in Indiana may know the maiden name of
                    Keturah, wife of George Wine, and where she was born. There should be an obituary of George Wine, as
                    late as Aug. 6, 1870, time of his death, giving his birthplace in 
                        Maryland
                    , and other facts needed, perhaps a reference to service in the Revolutionary War. Any
                    direct information or addresses of descendants, will be gladly received.—A. M. H.
            Query 20: MORRIS FAMILY
            Amos Morris and his wife Rebecca Tyler were from 
                        Virginia
                    , county and location not known. They had the following children: Isaac, Hannah,
                    Rebecca, Lucretia, George, Amos, Levi and James. Isaac, of this family was born in 
                        Va.
                     on March 20, 1794, and died on March 8, 1870. He married Matilda Fitzgerald, who was
                    born May 2, 1800, died in 1838, and buried in Hogen Mill Cemetery near 
                  Manchester, Dearborn
               
                    Co., Ind. Isaac married Ann Alexander as his second wife and kept a pottery in Napoleon, Riply Co.,
                    Ind. He is buried in the Baptist Cemetery near Napoleon. Definite information is wanted of this
                    family.—M. I. H.
            Query 21: VANCLEAVE FAMILY
            Peter Vancleave was married in Jefferson Co., Ind., on July 25, 1815 to Elizabeth Woodfield. He is
                    listed in the Census of 1820, but in the Census of 1830, his name is replaced by Elizabeth
                    Vancleave. Information is wanted concerning the parents of this Peter Vancleave, where he lived,
                    when and where he was born, names of his children, and names and addresses of
                    descendants.—E. S. H.
            Query 22: CLOUD FAMILY
            Joel Cloud married Rebecca Thompson in 
                        Orange
                     Co., N.C., about 1811. He was born on July 4, 1781, in N.C., a son of Daniel and Nancy
                    (Nail) Cloud, and died on Sept. 26, 1834, in or near Paoli, 
                        Orange
                     Co., Ind. His wife was born on Feb. 10, 1786; daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth (Debow)
                    Thompson. She died on Nov. 19, 1844, and is buried in the Lick Creek Friends Cemetery, east of
                    Paoli. Samuel Thompson was a Revolutionary soldier. Wanted the exact date of the  birth of Joel Cloud and other information not given here.—L.
                    D. P.
            Query 23: LUCAS FAMILY
            Information is wanted concerning George Lucas, who moved from N.C. to 
                        Clay
                     Co., Ind., where he entered land in 
                        Jackson
                     Tp., on Oct. 5, 1832. He and his wife must have died before Dec. 2, 1836, when the
                    following children began to sell his land: Solomon (died later in 
                        Monroe
                     Co., Ind.); Katherine Light; George Washington Lucas (and his wife Sarah); Berry Lucas
                    and Elizabeth, his wife, of 
                        Brown
                     Co., Ind.; and an unnamed daughter who married Oliver P. Cofer. It is possible that
                    George Lucas moved from N.C., to 
                        Kentucky
                    , before coming to Ind.—L. D. P.
            Query 24: RHINEHART FAMILY
            Jacob and Peter Rhinehart were in 
                        Wayne
                     Tp., Henry Co., Ind., in 1821. If any descendants of these men or others can furnish
                    information concerning them, it will be appreciated. I should like also to know of descendents of
                    Frederick Price (Prise) who settled in 
                        Jackson
                     Tp., 
                        Wayne
                     Co., Ind. He was born in 1834 and died about 1870.—R. J.
            Query 25: PATRICK FAMILY
            John Patrick was born on Nov. 11,1799, and died on Feb. 6, 1869. He married Matilda Holman (born May
                    15, 1806; died Jan. 21, 1874). Their children were: Solomon, Andrew, John, Charles, William, Daniel
                    (my grandfather). This Daniel married Anna Morris, daughter of Levi and Martha (Kelly) Morris, who
                    was born on Sept. 4, 1838, and died about 1873 in 
                        Seymour
                    , Jackson Co., Ind. Information wanted about the Patrick family.—A. N.
            Answer to Query 1 (Sept. 1936, p. 307). Daniel Funk, to whom this query related, was the son of Henry
                    Funk, soldier in the Revolutionary War, and his wife Elizabeth (Miller) Funk. Daniel was not a
                    soldier in the struggle for independence. His service was as a private in the War of 1812 under
                    Captain John Hughes and Colonel James Paddis. He was in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and has a government marker at his grave. Daniel came to Hardin Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , with his parents from Strasburg,
                        Va.
                    , in about 1800. Here, he met and married Rachel Denbo in January, 1802 (or 1803). She
                    was  born on Aug. 8, 1784, in Redstone Fort (Brownstown), Pa.,
                    during an Indian outbreak. Daniel and his wife lived in 
                  Elizabethtown, Ky.
               , until
                    about 1805, when, with their little son Samuel, they and their parents moved to Harrison Co., Ind.
                    The children of Daniel and Rachel (Denbo) Funk were: 
                        Samuel Funk, b. Apr. 25, 1804; d. Dec. 7, 1880; m. Sarah Langford (Lankford). Sarah, b. Apr.
                            9, 1810; d. Dec. 6, 1880.
                        Henry Funk (my grandfather), b. Nov. 20, 1809; d. Sept. 3, 1912; m. Delilah Potts, Oct. 20,
                            1832.
                        Squire Funk, b. Sept. 20, 1814; d. Dec. 10, 1895; m. (1) Susan Saffer and (2) Mary E. Gather
                            (Gater). Mary, b. Sept. 15, 1825; d. Feb. 17, 1907. (Squire Funk was a namesake of Squire 
                                Boone
                            , brother of Daniel Boone).
                    
            
            Other children of Daniel and Rachel Funk were: John, never married; Joseph and Mary, twins, who died
                    young; another child who died of croup. Seven children in all. Mrs. Rachel (Denbo) Funk, sometime
                    after the death of Daniel Funk, married Samuel Reaugh.—Clara Funk, 419 E. 9th St., 
                        New Albany
                    , Ind.
            Answer to Query 4 (Sept., 1936, p. 309, O. L. W.), relating to the Cheezen family. Parke Co. was
                    formed in 1821 from the counties of Vigo and 
                        Wabash
                    . Census records of 1820, show no Cheezen names for these two counties. There was a
                    Samuel Cheseman in 
                        Vigo
                     Co. in 1820. The Census record of 1830 for Parke Co. is not indexed, but on p. 158 the
                    following is found: Price Cheezen—males, 1 under 5, 1 between 5 and 10, 1 between 20 and
                    30; females, 1 under 5, 1 between 5 to 10, 1 between 20 and 30 years.
            Answer to Query 5 (Sept., 1936, p. 309, M. McM.) Further information regarding the Eddington family
                    may possibly be obtained from Paul W. Eddingfield, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gas Co. He is a son of James C. and Aretta M. Eddingfield (buried in the Union Church
                    Cemetery, two miles west of New Ross, Ind.).—E. S. Harvey, 
                        Lebanon
                    , Ind.
            Answer to Query 9 (Sept. 1936, p. 310, L. E. F.) The 1920 census report for Clark Co., Ind., (p, 18)
                    has the following record for the Fisler (Fislar) family: James Fisler, Bethlehem
                    Tp.—males, 3 under 10, 2 from 10 to 16, and 1 from 26 to 45 years of age; females, 2
                    under 10, 1 from 26 to 45 years, and also in this family, an agricultural worker. From the same
                    census report (p. 42), John Fisler, Jefferson Tp.—males, 2  under 10, 1 from 10 to 16, 1 from 16 to 26, 1 from 26 to 45 years;
                    females, 2 under 10,1 from 26 to 45.—Miss Leona Toby, assistant, Genealogy Section,
                    Indiana State Library.
            Answer to Query 13 (Dec., 1936, p. 434, O. P. G.). Miss Jessie Akester (6812 Raven St., 
                        Chicago
                    ), a member of the Indiana Historical Society, has been compiling records of the Edwards
                    family, and has traced the line from which she is descended back to 
                        Wales
                    . Isaac Edwards is her ancestor. He was born on Oct. 12, 1782, and his wife was Ulilah
                    Featherkile (or Featheringill). They came to 
                        Orange
                     Co., Ind., from 
                        Shelby
                     Co., 
                        Ky.
                     Their daughter, Catherine Edwards, was born on May 5, 1811 and married John Boone (born
                    Jan. 16, 1807). Their daughter, Juliann Boone, was born in 
                        Orange
                     Co., Ind., on Dec. 21, 1833 and married George Washington Abel. The Mary Edwards,
                    mentioned in Query 13, who married Bluford G. Davis (second wife), may possibly belong to this
                    Edwards family, and, if so, she may be able to assist those doing research on the Davis
                    Family.—M. T. M.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            THE VANDIVIER FAMILY
            The Bible records of the Vandivier family as here reprinted are from a collection of records of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, a set of six volumes compiled by the Alexander Hamilton Chapter, Daughters of
                    the American Revolution, at 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana. The work was begun in 1930, during the regency of Mrs. William H. Schlasser,
                    and the last volume was completed about five years later. Volume I is a miscellaneous collection
                    consisting of abstracts of early wills of the County, early land grants, histories of schools,
                    churches and other organizations. Finally, there is a list of names of Revolutionary soldiers buried
                    in 
                        Franklin County
                     with statements of their services.
            Two of the volumes are made up of marriage records from the beginning of the county court records to
                    and including 1900. These records were copied by Edna Thompson Bice and are indexed. Another volume
                    is devoted to cemetery records, covering every cemetery, both large and small, in the County. This
                    volume was the work of Ruth Trout Hougham. There are two volumes of Bible and genealogical records
                    of pioneer families of 
                        Franklin County
                    . These indexed volumes were compiled by Mrs. Bess Sellers Johnson, who has sent in the
                    records that follow.
            In 1826, Peter Vandivier came to 
                        Johnson county
                    , Indiana, from 
                  Mercer county, Kentucky
               , and entered land just west of the
                    first 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     Church. His brother, James, came some time later. The following Bible records of the
                    families of Peter and James Vandivier are in possession of a member of the family living at 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana. Descendants of Peter and James Vandivier comprise one of the largest
                    families, if not the largest, in 
                        Johnson county
                    . The Vandivier, or Van der Veer, family originated in 
                        Holland
                    .
            
                    
                        Marriages
                    
                    
                  Peter Vandivier, m. Sarah Garshwiler (daughter of Joseph and Barbara Garshwiler), March 2,
                            1809 (
                        Mercer county, Ky.
                     )
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Vandivier, m. Mildred Admire, Nov. 10, 1831
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Vandivier, m. Matilda Davis, Sept. 6, 1855
                  
                  Eliza Vandivier, m. George Byers, Sept. 10, 1832
                  Strowther Vandivier, m. Lucy Utterback, Aug. 28, 1834
                  John Vandivier, m. Harriet Allen, Dec. 24, 1835
                  William Terrill Vandivier, m. Mary Ann Canary, Apr. 1, 1837
                  Susanna Vandivier, m. John Byers, Apr, 18, 1840
                  Peter Vandivier, m. Melinda Dollins, Apr. 1, 1841
                  Joseph S. Vandivier, m. Rachel McCauley, Jan. 2, 1845
                  Joseph S. Vandivier, m. Sarah Alexander, June 5, 1873
                  Joseph S. Vandivier, m. Sarah E. Adams, in 1890
                  James Harrison Vandivier, m. Mary Ann Buckner, Nov. 16, 1848
                  Mary Vandivier, m. Andrew Carnine (date not known)
                  Isaac Vandivier, m. Nancy Jane Hamilton, Jan. 6, 1853
                  Jefferson Vandivier, m. Lucinda M. Canary, Jan. 26, 1854
                  Harriet Vandivier, m. Willis Dollens, Nov. 14, 1854
               
                    
                        Births
                    
                    
                  Peter Vandivier, b. Oct. 15, 1787 (Mercer Co., 
                                Ky.
                            )
                  Sarah Garshwiler, b. Oct. 17, 1788 (Mercer Co., 
                                Ky.
                            )
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Vandivier, b. Dec. 15, 1809
                  Eliza Vandivier, b. Feb. 9, 1811
                  Strowther Vandivier, b. Aug. 30, 1812
                  John Vandivier, b. Apr, 18, 1814
                  William Terrill Vandivier, b. Jan. 29, 1815
                  Susanna Vandivier, b. May 27, 1817
                  Peter Vandivier, b. Nov. 1, 1818
                  Joseph S. Vandivier, b. Jan. 6, 1820
                  James Harrison Vandivier, b. Feb. 13, 1823
                  Mary Vandivier, b. Sept, 18, 1824
                  Isaac Vandivier, b. July 15, 1826
                  Henry Vandivier, b. Dec. 23, 1827
                  Jefferson Vandivier, b. Aug. 25, 1828
                  Harriet Vandivier, b. Nov. 23, 1834
               
                    
                        Deaths
                    
                    
                  Peter Vandivier, d. Sept. 30, 1866 (Johnson Co., Ind.)
                  Sarah Vandivier (wife of Peter), d. June 29, 1863 (Johnson Co.)
                  Eliza (Vandivier) Byers, d. Mar. 21, 1889
                  William T. Vandivier, d. Sept. 16, 1900
                  Joseph S. Vandivier, d. Mar. 17, 1892
                  James Harrison Vandivier, d. Sept. 11, 1907
                  Isaac Vandivier, d. July 25, 1907
                  Henry Vandivier, d.——, 1838
                  Jefferson Vandivier, d. Feb. 12, 1915
                  James Vandivier, b, 1801; m. Barbara Canary, Feb. 12, 1825
               
                    
                        Children
                    
                    
                  Peter Parker Vandivier, b. Nov. 1, 1824
                  Mary Jane Vandivier, b. Sept. 15, 1826
                  
                  John James Vandivier, b. Jan. 3, 1829
                  Sarah Ann Vandivier, b. June 14, 1831
                  Susan Vandivier, b. Oct. 29, 1834
                  Nancy Vandivier, b. May 10, 1836
                  Lucinda Vandivier, b. Dec. 8, 1838
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Vandivier, b. Nov. 22, 1842
                  Luticia Vandivier, b. Nov. 17, 1845
               
                    
                        Marriages
                    
                    
                  John H. Canary, m. Mary Jane Vandivier, Feb. 11, 1845
                  David P. Jones, m. Sarah Ann Vandivier, Apr. 1, 1850
                  Richard McDaniel, m. Susan Vandivier, Nov. 13, 1850
                  John James Vandivier, m. Susan H. Hamilton, Feb. 6, 1851
                  Peter Parker Vandivier, m. Lucy Ann Cole, Mar. 13, 1851
                  John Green, m. Nancy Vandivier, Feb. 15, 1855
                  Henry Canary, m. Lucinda Vandivier, Mar. 31, 1859
                  James W. McCaslin, m. Luticia Vandivier, Dec. 10, 1863
               
                
            THE TERHUNE FAMILY
            Garrett Terhune was born in 
                  Harlingen, New Jersey
               , and brought by his parents, William
                    and Maria Van Nuys Terhune, to Mercer Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , in 1793. William Terhune was a soldier in the American Revolution. In September, 1830,
                    Garrett Terhune with his wife and Children moved to Johnson Co., Ind., settling near Trafalgar. They
                    had twelve children. The sixth child, Martha, married William Robert Hunt. Their daughter, Cynthia
                    Jane Hunt married James McNutt, and they were the grandparents of ex-Governor Paul V. McNutt, who
                    was born in 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana.
            This Terhune family Bible record was contributed to the 
                        Johnson County
                     Records by Dr. R. W. Terhune of Martins-ville, Ind. It is reproduced from Vol. II, Part
                    2, pp. 209, 210, 211, of those records.
            
                    
                        Births
                    
                    
                  Garrett Terhune, b. Nov. 15, 1791 (Harlingen, N.J.)
                  Nancy Davis Terhune, b. Apr. 9, 1794 (
                                Tennessee
                            )
                  Sarah Terhune, b. Aug. 10, 1814
                  Mary Ann Terhune, b. Aug. 25, 1815
                  Harvey Terhune, b. March 22, 1817
                  William Terhune, b. Mar. 22, 1819
                  James Terhune, b. Feb. 3, 1821
                  Martha Terhune, b. July 3, 1822
                  Margaret Terhune, b. Aug. 7, 1824
                  Lucinda Terhune, b. Mar. 8, 1826
                  Ida Riker Terhune, b. Oct. 5, 1829
                  
                  Davis Terhune, b. Sept. 23, 1831
                  Minerva Jane Terhune, b. Jan. 10, 1834
                  Obediah Terhune, b. Apr. 10, 1836
               
                    
                        Marriages
                    
                    
                  Garrett Terhune, m. Nancy Davis, Aug. 15, 1813
                  Garrett Terhune, m. Mrs. Jane Forsyth, Aug. 3, 1851
                  Garrett Terhune, m. Mrs. Nancy Pickerel, Sept. 4, 1857
                  Fielding Utterback, m. Sarah Terhune, Oct. 25, 1833
                  Henry Utterback, m. Mary Ann Terhune, May 13, 1832
                  Harvey Terhune, m. Susan Wilson, Oct. 31, 1839
                  William Terhune, m. Deborah Zook (date unknown)
                  James Terhune, m. Eusebia Nay, Mar. 17, 1842
                  William Robert Hunt, m. Martha Terhune, Sept. 26, 1839
                  Henderson Ragsdale, m. Margaret Terhune, Mar. 16, 1843
                  Harvey Ragsdale, m. Lucinda Terhune, Dec. 26, 1844
                  James A. Nay, m. Ida R. Terhune, July 13, 1848
                  Davis Terhune, m. Cynthia J. Riker, Jan. 27, 1854
                  Davis Terhune, m. Mary J. Terhune, Oct. 19, 1858
                  Joel H. Hoback, m. Minerva Jane Terhune, Dec. 27, 1854
               
                    
                        Deaths
                    
                    
                  Garrett Terhune, d. Jan. 24, 1857 (near Trafalgar, Ind.)
                  Nancy Davis Terhune, d. Feb. 14, 1851
                  Obediah Terhune, d. July 26, 1837
                  Mary Ann Utterback, d. Aug. 5, 1842
                  Davis Terhune, d. Oct. 5, 1877
                  William Terhune, d. Feb. 3, 1880
                  James Terhune, d. Jan. 21, 1892
                  Sarah Utterback, d. Apr. 21, 1896 (Mills Co., 
                                Iowa
                            )
                  Ida R. Nay, d. Feb. 9, 1894
                  Lucinda Ragsdale, d. Feb. 22, 1901
                  Minerva Jane Hoback, d. June 30, 1906
                  Martha Hunt, d. Jan. 9, 1908
                  Margaret Ragsdale, d. Aug. 17, 1911
               
                
         
      
      
         
      
   
