
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 52, Issue 1, pages 1-109. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:52+issue:1+year:1956&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana in World War II—A Progress Report
            
                    Lynn W. Turner
                    *
                
            "What will History say?" asked Major Swindon of General Burgoyne, just before they
                    surrendered to the despised colonials at Saratoga.
            "History, sir, will tell lies, as usual," replied Burgoyne. That, at any rate, is
                    what George Bernard Shaw, in The Devil's Disciple, thinks he said. Now
                    Shaw, who did as much violence to history as any man who ever wrote a play, probably had his own
                    tongue in his cheek as was his custom when he put these words into General Burgoyne's
                    mouth. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of truth in them. Especially when it comes to wars, what
                    is accepted by the average man as history is likely to be a thick accretion of legends and
                    stereotypes. These are usually more comfortable and more flattering than the truth—and it
                    is certainly much easier to invent them than it is to dig out the disillusioning facts, especially
                    when no records can be found in which to do the digging. So, sometimes by default, history becomes a
                    weapon for the propagandist, a coat of whitewash for the blunderer, or a lovely fairy tale for the
                    children rather than the uncompromising, bitter-sweet, let-the-chips-fall-where-they-may presentment
                    of evidence which it ought to be.
            The basic reason for the organization of the Indiana War History Commission in 1942 was to guarantee,
                    so far as humanly possible, that history would tell no lies in recounting Indiana's part an
                    World War II.1 Its immediate concern during the war years was the preservation
                    of records—a task which it 
                  
                     * Lynn W. Turner is associate professor of history at
                            Indiana University and director of the Indiana War History Commission. This paper was read
                            at the December, 1955, meeting of the Indiana Historical Society, and is here reprinted with
                            some modification.
                  
                     1 John D. Barnhart, "The Indiana War History
                            Commission," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XL (1944), 228–229.
               
                     attempted to perform so thoroughly that no gaps would be left as
                    open invitations for the myth-makers. The end of the war brought the collecting phase of the
                    commission's work to a virtual close. It then turned to the other indispensable part of its
                    mission, embodied in the 1947 act of the general assembly which made it an independent state agency
                    to "write, publish and sell a comprehensive history of the state's war
                        activities."2 The commission subsequently decided that the
                    execution of this mandate required the production of a ten-volume series to which was given the
                    general title Indiana in World War II. Three of these proposed
                    volumes—a gold star honor roll, a book of letters from Hoosiers in the armed services,
                    and a history of military installations within the state—were to cover the purely
                    military side of Indiana's war effort. A fourth was to be a general survey and personnel
                    directory of civilian war service in federal and state agencies and private organizations. Four of
                    the remaining volumes were to deal respectively with the industrial, agricultural, financial, and
                    social history of Indiana during the war years. Another book was to cover the story of civilian
                    defense in all of its ramifications, and the final volume was planned as a popular summary of the
                    entire series. Of these ten projected volumes, three have been published and are on the market, two
                    are now ready for publication, and three more are in various stages of advanced preparation.3 Thus it is apparent that the research has been finished for eight of the ten
                    volumes and the entire project is rapidly nearing its original goal. The work is far enough advanced
                    that its final impact can be estimated: the rough outlines of the picture are clearly visible and
                    the details have been filled in for a great portion of the canvas. To some degree this paper may
                    serve as the forerunner of that last volume—the summary of the series—by
                    attempting to evaluate the results of more than a decade of research.
            The services of a special commission were not required to measure Indiana's participation in
                    the war effort statistically. It is well known that the state furnished approximately 363,000 men
                    and women to the armed forces of the nation and that more than 10,000 of these gave their lives in
                    their 
                  
                     2
                            Laws of Indiana, 1947, I, 825.
                  
                     3 See appendix at the end of this article.
               
                     country's service.4 Federal
                    statisticians declare that Indiana's manufacturers produced $3,200,000,000 worth
                    of war goods and that new war factories, costing more than a billion dollars, were erected within
                    her boundaries.5 Agricultural production in Indiana increased by 49 per cent
                    during the war years,6 the annual production of the coal mines almost
                        doubled,7 and the number of employed grew by more than 66 per cent.8 Hoosiers purchased $3,085,000,000 worth of war bonds, while, at the
                    same time, paying nearly two and three-quarter billion dollars in taxes.9 These
                    figures are imposing but their significance is clarified only by comparisons with national totals or
                    with the accomplishments of neighboring states. It is instructive, for example, to learn that while
                    Indiana contained 2.6 per cent of the male population of the 
                        United States
                     in 1940, she contributed only 2.5 per cent of the men in the armed forces and only 2.2
                    per cent of those who enlisted voluntarily, while Californians, who made up 5.3 per cent of the
                    population, comprised 5.9 per cent of the armed forces and 7.4 per cent of the volunteers.10 A more flattering comparison is that Indiana, which ranks twelfth among her
                    sister states in population, raised herself during the war from ninth place to seventh in the total
                    value of industrial products and that she ranked no less than third in the nation in her ratio of
                    war production to population.11
            
            What conclusions may be drawn from these facts? It is dangerous enough even for experts to venture
                    interpretations of contemporary history, but what this paper attempts is doubly perilous, since it
                    proposes to generalize upon others' interpretations. Doubly distilled deductions usually
                    either lose the original qualities of the brew entirely, or emerge as concentrations too potent to
                    be exposed to the public. Whichever 
                  
                     4
                            Quotas, Calls and Inductions (Selective Service System, Special Monograph
                            No. 12, 
                                Washington
                            , 1948), II, 136–137. Indiana War History Commission, Gold Star Honor Roll, 
                                    Adams County
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1949), foreword.
                  
                     5 George M. Blackburn, "The Hoosier Arsenal"
                            (unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, department of history, Indiana University, 1956), 482.
                  
                     6 Lynn W. Turner and Heber P. Walker (comps.), Indiana at
                                War: Civilian Directory (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1951), 526.
                  
                     7 R. C. Freytag, "The Indiana Coal Industry's Part
                            in World War II," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI (1945),
                            265–266.
                  
                     8 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 489.
                  
                     9 Turner and Walker, Indiana at War,
                            788–789.
                  
                     10
                            Quotas, Calls and Inductions, II, 136–137.
                  
                     11 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 482.
               
                     this may be, here are some of the things worth remembering that
                    may have been discovered through the commission's studies of Indiana's
                    participation in World War II.
            First of all, the war offered some proof that the proud boast "INDIANA—The Center
                    of Almost Everything" is not simply Chamber of Commerce propaganda but reasonably
                    demonstrable fact. Whether because of her geographical location at the center of population, her
                    unique combination of distance from the coasts but proximity to markets, her natural resources, her
                    transportation network, her skilled labor, her diversified industry, her educational system, the
                    skill of her politicians, or a judicious mixture of all these factors, it is certainly apparent that
                    Indiana was attractive both to military officers planning the location of key installations and to
                    governmental officials searching for the placement of war contracts. "They like us down in 
                        Washington
                    ," Governor M. Clifford Townsend reported after a visit to the capital as early
                    as December, 1940.12 Nor was this just a politician's statement for
                    home consumption. Already by that time Du Pont had nearly finished construction of the gigantic
                    Hoosier Ordnance Plant at 
                        Charlestown
                    , contracts had been awarded for the 
                        Kingsbury
                     Ordnance Plant at the other end of the state, the Navy had taken over half of Martin
                    County for the development of a billion dollar ammunition storage depot, and the Army had announced
                    plans for developing a fifty-six thousand acre proving ground in the hills behind 
                        Madison
                    .13 When World War II began there were only two major military
                    installations in Indiana—Fort Benjamin Harrison and the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Quartermaster Depot. Before it ended there were thirty-one—ten ordnance
                    plants, seven air bases, six storage depots, five training camps, two great general hospitals, and
                    the Army's largest proving ground. The military contribution made by these installations
                    was considerable, but the economic and social consequences of their presence in Indiana were even
                    more significant.
            The story of the role which Indiana industry and labor played in the war is fundamentally the same
                    although the chronological pattern is different. Principally because no Indiana 
                  
                     12 Cedric Cummins, "History of the Indiana State Defense
                            Council" (unfinished MS, War History Commission files, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ), 11.
                  
                     13 Dorothy Riker (comp.), The Hoosier Training
                            Ground (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1952), 358–359.
               
                     city plays the dominant role in any major industry which 
                        Detroit
                    , for example, exerts in the automotive world, Hoosier factories were backward about
                    getting into defense production during 1940 and 1941. To some extent this was a matter of deliberate
                    choice, reflecting an isolationist attitude toward world affairs and a Republican distrust of New
                    Deal politicians. But it soon became a cause for alarm—the major contracts were going to
                    the great metropolitan centers and Indiana was not getting her share. Curtailment of purely civilian
                    goods such as automobiles and washing machines by government fiat, shrinking stockpiles of strategic
                    materials, and "priorities unemployment" actually brought a serious threat of
                    depression to Indiana during the months just preceding Pearl Harbor.14 American
                    entry into the war and a vigorous campaign of protest in which Hoosier congressmen and
                    industrialists took a leading part soon brought Indiana from somewhere near the rear of the
                    industrial parade to a front rank. 
                        Evansville
                    , for example, turned from the production of refrigerators and automobiles to bullets,
                    airplane engines, and LST's. In 1941 she was facing a problem of severe unemployment: by
                    1943 she was listed by the War Manpower Commission as an area of critical labor shortage.15
            
            One of the finished manuscripts in the possession of the War History Commission is a history of
                    Indiana's war production record by George M. Blackburn, a former research assistant. Much
                    of this five-hundred-page manuscript is devoted to a recital of simple but incredible facts. There
                    is the story of Kaufman T. Keller, president of Chrysler Corporation, who was asked by Army Ordnance
                    if his 
                        Plymouth
                     assembly plant at 
                        Evansville
                     could produce .45 caliber cartridges by the billion. His answer was simply,
                    "Yes," and when the startled Army officer asked if decisions of this magnitude
                    were always so readily made, Keller replied, "Not always, Colonel, but we have been hearing
                    more and more about billions in recent years. I still can't imagine what a billion is like,
                    so I'd like to make billions of something and find out." The 
                        Evansville
                     plant obliged Keller by turning out 3,264,281,934 cartridges—96 per cent of
                    all the .45 caliber ammunition fabricated for the armed forces.16
            
            
               
                  14 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 123–134.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., 136–138; 
                     
                                Evansville
                             Courier, July 2, 15, and 23,1941.
               
                  16 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 208–209.
                        Quotation from Wesley W. Stout, Bullets by the Billion (
                            Detroit
                        , 1946), 1–2.
            
            
            There was similar drama behind the 70,000 liquid-cooled airplane engines produced by the Allison
                    plant in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and behind Studebaker's stepping up production of her B-17 engines from ten a
                    month to twenty-three hundred.17 The Indiana Ordnance Works made one and a half
                    billion pounds of smokeless powder, the Bridgeport Brass plant in 
                        Indianapolis
                     produced more than a billion pounds of its product, Guide Lamp at Anderson turned out
                    thirty-six million shell cases, Pullman-Standard at Hammond built thirty-nine hundred tanks, 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Shipyard, a thousand miles away from the ocean, launched one hundred thirty-three
                        LST's.18 Such figures could be continued ad infinitum. Indiana
                    furnished 30 per cent of the electronics gear for the armed forces, 75 per cent of their forty
                    millimeter armor-piercing shells, 92 per cent of their needle bearings, 60 per cent of the extruded
                    aluminum, and 98 per cent of the solenoids.19 There were also unique
                    contributions: 
                        Bloomington
                     RCA's variable time fuse which the navy regarded as second only to the atom
                    bomb as a wartime scientific achievement,20 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Naval Ordnance plant's Norden bombsight, Studebaker's amphibious
                    weasel, and even an improved pancake turner created by a modest New 
                        Albany
                     manufacturer who admitted that "none of the Generals have mentioned in their
                    memoirs that this played a substantial part in any of their campaigns."21
            
            Lest it be supposed that Blackburn's study is a long paean of undiscriminating praise for
                    Indiana industry, let it be understood that he does not hesitate to record instances where Hoosier
                    ingenuity failed or Hoosier rascality prevailed. The first exercise of compulsory federal
                    requisition during the war occurred in a 
                        Valparaiso
                     junkyard where the proprietor was hoarding precious scrap.22 In
                    Indiana, as elsewhere, manufacturers failed to reach their quotas, resisted government 
                  
                     17 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 483–484;
                                Studebaker Spotlight (
                                South Bend
                            ), September, 1945.
                  
                     18 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 485–486.
                                
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, August 20, 1945. Bridgeport Brass News
                            (Bridgeport, 
                                Connecticut
                            ), October, 1945. Guide Light (Anderson, Indiana), August 31,
                            1945; this is the plant publication of the Guide Lamp Division, General Motors Corporation.
                                Gary Post-Tribune, May 24, 1945. Courier-Journal (
                                Louisville
                            ), August 19, 1945.
                  
                     19 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 486, 484, 309, 338,
                            345.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid.,486.
                  
                     21 Edward M. Gardner to Lynn Turner, New 
                                Albany
                            , October 5, 1948, War History Commission files.
                  
                     22 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 257.
               
                     expediters, quarreled unnecessarily with the labor unions,
                    hoarded, or defrauded the government. It is safe to say, however, that there was much less of this
                    kind of thing than in any previous war in our history. The major fiascos—an unfinished
                    synthetic rubber plant at Gary, for example, upon which five million dollars were wasted without an
                    ounce of rubber being produced,23 or the ghost city at Kingsford Heights, where
                    fewer than one-sixth of the 3,000 new dwellings erected by the National Housing Agency were ever
                        occupied24—could be blamed either upon unforeseeable developments
                    in a rapidly changing war, or upon poor planning by federal bureaucrats. The granting of Army-Navy
                    "E" awards to 174 Indiana factories affords some evidence that Hoosier management
                    and labor alike regarded their daily work in the light of patriotic duty during the war years.25
            
            A second generalization which emerges very clearly from each of the commission's studies is
                    that the war effort in Indiana had a pungent grass-roots flavor. So much emphasis has been placed by
                    both friend and foe upon the federal bureaucracy in recent years that one gets an impression of
                    monolithic government at 
                        Washington
                     crushing out all local initiative and self-direction. This was certainly not true in
                    Indiana. The record, in fact, shows that to a surprising degree, Indiana civilians fought the war in
                    their own way, sometimes with better and sometimes with worse results than when it was entirely
                    directed by national officials.
            Civilian defense is an excellent illustration of this point. Indiana did not wait for directives from
                    the federal government to begin organizing in this field: in fact, Hoosiers were somewhat overeager
                    in their formation of early vigilante groups without legal authority. It was partly to channel this
                    enthusiasm that Governor Townsend created an Emergency Defense Council on May 30, 1940, fully a year
                    and a half before the 
                        United States
                     became a full-fledged belligerent, and well before either the federal government or the
                    other states 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 244–245. Gary Post-Tribune, May 27,
                            August 18 and 19, 1942.
                  
                     24 Max Cavnes, "The Hoosier Community at War"
                            (unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, department of history, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1955), 186–195.
                  
                     25 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 363. Hugh M. Ayer
                            is writing a history of Indiana labor during the war years.
               
                     had given much thought to this activity.26
                    The general assembly replaced this rudimentary committee on March 10, 1941, with a combination of
                    advisory and administrative councils which worked so smoothly that it became a model for many other
                    state defense organizations. Under the energetic leadership of Clarence A. Jackson, the Indiana
                    State Defense Council posted a brilliant record of accomplishment in coordinating the myriad facets
                    of civilian defense and civilian services. Many of its activities were unique, an excellent example
                    being the Indiana Plan of Bi-Racial Cooperation which attracted nationwide attention and received a
                    special citation of merit from the national Office of Civilian Defense.27 The
                    plan was itself a testimony to the state's sturdy independence, for it was conceived as a
                    means of warding off compulsory fair employment decrees in Indiana by accomplishing the same
                    objective through voluntary agreements. Headed by Theodore Cable of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a member of the State Advisory Defense Council, and J. Chester Allen, the Negro
                    Activities Coordinator in the State Defense Council, the plan set up a number of biracial committees
                    throughout the state. Their chief function was to bring management, labor, and Negro representatives
                    together to plan for the equitable integration of the Negro labor potential into war industry and to
                    mitigate racial discrimination in employment, housing, schools, and recreation. Success in the first
                    of these objectives, at any rate, was indicated by a rise of 82 per cent in the number of Negroes
                    employed by Indiana industries within a year.28
            
            One of the earliest problems tackled by the Emergency Defense Council was the chaotic situation at 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana, 
                  
                     26 Cummins, "History of Defense Council,"
                            4–7. The Division of State and Local Cooperation in the National Defense Advisory
                            Commission, out of which later developed the Office of Civilian Defense, was not organized
                            until August 2, 1940. Two eastern states claim to have preceded Indiana with defense
                            organizations: in September, 1939, the governor of 
                                New Jersey
                             appointed a State Emergency Committee which was merely advisory in character,
                            and the governor of 
                                Virginia
                             issued on May 29, 1940, effective on May 30, an executive order creating the 
                                Virginia
                             Defense Council. This council held its first session on June 5, two days before
                            Governor Townsend presided over the first session of his Emergency Defense Council. See Book of the States, (
                                Chicago
                            , 1935-), IV (1941), 36–37; the date given for the organization of
                            the Indiana Defense Council in this reference is incorrect.
                  
                     27 Ralph F. Armstrong (ed.), Manual of Civilian Defense
                                in Indiana (5th ed.; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943), 156–157.
                  
                     28 Indiana State Defense Council, Job Opportunities for
                                Negroes (Indiana Plan of Bi-Racial Cooperation Pamphlet No. 4, n. p., 1943),
                        4.
               
                     produced by the building of a $150,000,000 powder
                    plant employing more than 13,000 construction workers on the edge of a slumbering village of 900
                        inhabitants.29
                    
                        Charlestown
                     became the earliest "boom town" of World War II, a prototype of
                    hundreds to follow in nearly every state, including at least a dozen more in Indiana, and something
                    of a national guinea pig for all the social experiments that were devised to meet the staggering
                    problems of such overnight growth. With "powder workers" jammed into every garage
                    and chicken coop, stacked four deep in the town's two restaurants and ten deep in its
                    single tavern, congesting traffic all the way to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and crowding the natives off the village streets, the mere details of policing,
                    sanitation, garbage disposal, schooling, and recreation became nightmares to the harried local
                        officials.30 Neither the Du Pont Company nor the War Department assumed
                    responsibility for anything beyond the plant's gates, and it was still too early in the
                    defense program for any of the federal agencies which later multiplied like rabbits to offer advice.
                    The state government came to the rescue by sending a defense co-ordinator to the aid of the
                    bewildered town fathers. According to one of the priceless definitions that emerged from the war
                    "A coordinator is a man who brings organized chaos out of regimented
                        confusion."31 It would be foolish to pretend that anyone could have
                    done more than impose a slight degree of organization upon the chaos at 
                        Charlestown
                     but something was accomplished. At the suggestion of an Indiana University professor,
                    for example, an official census was taken, thereby almost tripling the amount of gasoline tax refund
                    to which the town was entitled.32 When federal agencies stepped in later with
                    plans and money for sewer construction, recreational facilities, housing, and schools, the majority
                    of 
                        Charlestown
                    's citizens were duly grateful. The township trustee, however, upheld
                    Indiana's ancient tradition of rugged individualism by abruptly cancelling plans for a new
                    $600,000 school 
                  
                     29 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 58. Henry B. Steeg,
                            "The Story of 
                                Charlestown
                            " (MS, State Defense Council files, Indiana University), 12.
                  
                     30 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 28–32.
                            Ralph F. Armstrong, "Indiana Plays 
                                Guinea
                             Pig for a War Boom," Nation's Business (
                                Washington
                            , 1912-), May, 1941, p. 128.
                  
                     31 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 366.
                  
                     32 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 43. John E. Stoner
                            to C. J. Pangburn, 
                                Bloomington
                            , April 21 and 25, 1941, State Defense Council files.
               
                     building which was being financed by the Public Works
                    Administration—after eight months of work had gone into it.33
            
            The defiant stand of the 
                        Charlestown
                     Township trustee illustrates another aspect of the Hoosier's grass-roots
                    attitude toward the war—his tendency to be suspicious and perhaps hypercritical of
                    anything which emanated from 
                        Washington
                    . Much of this jaundice was undoubtedly justified but some of it was simply
                    pig-headed—unfortunately it is not always possible to classify the reaction. Even those
                    Hoosiers who willingly gave hours of voluntary time to selective service boards, war price and
                    rationing panels, or war finance committees were not loath to criticise what they considered to be
                    the bungling of their superiors. During the early months of the war, the Department of the Treasury
                    had developed two bond-selling organizations, one organized by internal revenue collector's
                    districts for day-by-day sales, another based on federal reserve districts for the First War Loan
                    Drive. Hoosier bond salesmen regarded this double-headed hydra as a wasteful duplication of overhead
                    and effort. During the Second War Loan, the Victory Fund Committee and the War Savings Staff in
                    Indiana combined their organizations so successfully that the Treasury Department adopted the scheme
                    on a national scale and finished the war with a single War Finance Division. Under the leadership of
                    Eugene C. Pulliam, more than eighty thousand volunteer workers in Indiana did an outstanding job of
                    persuading their fellow Hoosiers to invest in their national government.34
            
            One of Indiana's most vigorous critics of federal bureaucracy was Clarence Jackson, a
                    Jeffersonian Democrat who expressed his opinion of 
                        Washington
                     planners in forthright and colorful language. When Mayor Fiorello La Guardia of 
                        New York
                     City became director of the national Office of Civilian Defense he displayed a natural
                    tendency to ignore the states as "archaic" entities and to deal directly with the
                    cities. He reckoned without Jackson, who carried on an epistolary feud with the Little Flower which
                    made it crystal clear that civilian defense matters in Indiana would go through the state
                    office—and so they did. "Please advise somebody," Jackson wrote on one
                    particularly trying occasion, 
                  
                     33 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 90–94.
                                
                        
                                    Charlestown
                                 Courier, October 2, 1941; May 21, 1942.
                  
                     34 Turner and Walker, Indiana at War,
                            788–789. Bernard Friedman is writing a volume on "Indiana's
                            Financial Role in World War II."
               
                     "even if it's General Marshall, that they had
                    better get a 14-year old office boy over there to handle some of these things, for we are telling
                    you now that the next time this happens we are going to start raising hell in a big
                        way."35 Jackson was not unco-operative—he saw to it that
                    Indiana participated fully in every civilian defense measure planned in 
                        Washington
                    , as well as many planned only by himself, but he did not surrender an iota of
                    jurisdiction. The same thing can be said for James D. Strickland, who administered the terrifyingly
                    complicated OPA system in Indiana from the day in 1941 when it consisted of himself and a secretary
                    planning a tire rationing program until its demise six years later. More than 77,000 people, in a
                    gigantic state office and 139 local boards, helped Strickland dole out the twenty rationed items and
                    regulate the prices of every commodity purchased by the hapless civilian. This was the most
                    unpopular of all the forms of regimentation endured by Hoosiers for the sake of victory, and it is a
                    tribute to the patriotism of Strickland and at least thirty-one local board chairmen that they
                    served in their uncomfortable capacity for the duration.36
            
            Even in war activities that were not directed by the government, the Hoosier was apt to show a strong
                    disinclination toward patronage and control. The USO, for example, actually operated very few
                    servicemen's clubs or recreational centers in Indiana. Many of the more than seventy
                    centers which appeared in the state during the war were started by conscientious local citizens
                    before USO was organized, and continued to be operated by their founders, with or without USO funds,
                    as long as they were needed.37 One of the most successful community
                    organizations in the 
                        United States
                     was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Servicemen's Centers, Inc., which operated six facilities in the capital city
                    and offered Hoosier hospitality of almost every conceivable variety to nearly six million visiting
                    soldiers and sailors. Under the remarkable leadership of Dorothy Buschmann who, besides a
                    bookkeeper, was the only paid member of the staff, 64,316 volunteer workers donated 
                  
                     35 Clarence Jackson to Col. M. G. Henley, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 20, 1943, State Defense Council files. Calvin Berlin is writing a
                            volume on "Indiana's Civilian Soldiers," the history of civilian
                            defense.
                  
                     36 Turner and Walker, Indiana at War,
                            568–571, 584–585. Curtis A. Hodges (ed.), "History of the
                            Office of Price Administration in the Indiana District" (MS, War History Commission
                            files, 1947).
                  
                     37 Turner and Walker, Indiana at War,
                            339–343.
               
                     1,701,613 hours of service to this organization. Its annual
                    budget of a little less than $100,000 was covered sixty times over by the contributions
                    which 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens made to their United War Fund.38 That Hoosier
                    self-sufficiency could sometimes be carried to absurd extremes was indicated by a paradoxical
                    situation in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     where, due to differences of opinion between leading citizens, two well-equipped
                    service clubs on adjacent corners, one supported and operated by USO, the other an autonomous
                    community facility, served a group of soldiers who would have found ample accommodation in one.39 At the other extreme was the shameful reluctance of either the USO or the
                    nearby local communities to provide adequate recreational opportunities for Negro troops stationed
                    at Camps Atterbury and Breckenridge and at George and Freeman Air Fields.40
            
            Though harried by expediters, co-ordinators, consultants, red tape, forms to fill out in
                    quintuplicate, and ration stamps, the average Hoosier business man managed to survive the war with
                    his sanity intact and his faith in democracy vindicated. There were the inevitable cranks and
                    chronic faultfinders and a few crooks, but the majority of business men accepted the chafing of
                    inescapable regimentation with the philosophy of Louis Ruthenberg, President of Servel, Inc.:
                    "American industrialists are tough. … Perhaps we are better prepared to meet the
                    greatest test of all time than we should have been if our taskmasters in 
                        Washington
                     had refrained from kicking us around. It now appears likely that American industrial
                    management can succeed in its terrific task despite continuing obstacles ingeniously arranged by
                    those same taskmasters."41
            
            Some made light of their difficulties in the tall-tale tradition of Hoosier pioneers. A shipbuilder
                    declared that he had no trouble knowing when to launch a vessel; he simply 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 365. Cavnes, "Hoosier Community,"
                            767–768. John H. Reed, "The Development and Organization of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Service Men's Centers Incorporated (unpublished master's
                            thesis, School of Social Service Administration, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1944).
                  
                     39 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 775–789.
                            Ray A. Hoyer, Field Representative, Office of Community War Services, to Mark A. McCloskey,
                            Director of Recreation, Federal Security Agency, March 13, 1943, Office of Community War
                            Services, General Classified Files, Record Group 15, Box 103, National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     40 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 272–279.
                            Hoyer to McCloskey, April 19, 1943, OCWS, GCF, RG 215, Box 105, National Archives.
                  
                     41 Reported in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, May 13, 1942.
               
                     weighed it every day and when the weight of the ship equalled
                    the weight of the paper work on the contract, she was ready!42 A few had the
                    grace to admit somewhat ruefully that there might be shortcomings on both sides. One of these wrote
                    a set of ten commandments for the business man, the ninth of which was "Thou shall not fret
                    because of evildoers for thou hast not done so well thyself."43
            
            It is much too early now to speak with any degree of confidence about the consequences of the war in
                    Indiana and the commission's writers have not pretended to do so in their studies.
                    Nevertheless, a paper of this kind may be forgiven for venturing a few deductions on the basis of
                    plain evidence. Census figures show that Indiana's population increased by half a million
                    between 1940 and 1950, and that at least one-fifth of this increase came at the expense of other
                    states: in other words, many migrant workers and many soldiers who trained in Indiana camps became
                    permanent residents. Indiana's percentage gain was 14.8, slightly higher than the nation as
                    a whole.44 Thus it is clear that Indiana's attractiveness as a place to
                    live increased relatively as a result of the war. However, the change was slight, and except for
                    such spectacular developments as the overnight transformation of 
                        Charlestown
                    , it followed the familiar pattern of previous decades. Eighteen counties in the
                    agricultural and coalmining regions continued to lose population as they had before the
                    war—in fact, one of the great disappointments of the war boom was that neither the 
                        Wabash
                     River Ordnance Works, the Vigo Ordnance plant, nor any other artificial stimulant
                    seemed capable of lifting the lower 
                        Wabash
                     valley region from its chronic state of decline. The areas of greatest growth in the
                    state were those industrial regions which had been developing steadily, except for the depression
                    decade, since 1890.45
            
            Although demobilization and reconversion left a few camps and air fields and factories standing empty
                    as grim reminders of the waste of war, the Korean conflict and the 
                  
                     42 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal," 374–375.
                  
                     43
                            Speed Gab (
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana), May-June, 1942; this is the plant publication of the Reeves Pulley
                            Company.
                  
                     44 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 19–20,
                            22. Bureau of the Census, Current Population Reports, Ser. P-25, No. 72,
                            1953, p. 6. Seventeenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1950, Population, II, Part 14, pp. 7, 33–34.
                  
                     45 Indiana Economic Council, Indiana's
                                Population and Labor Force (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1953).
               
                     continuing diplomatic tensions in Europe and Asia have prevented
                    Indiana from returning completely to the pacific aspect she bore in 1939. The Crane NAD and the
                    ordnance plants at 
                        Charlestown
                    , 
                        Newport
                    , 
                        Kingsbury
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     have apparently become permanent additions to the Hoosier landscape and economy. The
                    majority of Indiana's war industries converted to peacetime production after 1945, but
                    Allison continues to manufacture jet engines, Eli Lilly is still growing penicillin in the tanks
                    constructed for that purpose during the war, the Alcoa plant at 
                        Lafayette
                     is moulding airplane bodies in the world's largest extrusion press, and dozens
                    of Hoosier scientists are engaged in research for the armed forces. Aided by the experience and
                    additional capacity gained through war production, Indiana has risen to a foremost rank among her
                    sister states in the manufacture of more than sixty products. She stands first in the making of
                    power transmission and engine electrical equipment, second in aircraft engines and farm machinery,
                    third in steel mills and motor vehicles, and fourth in the electronics industry.46 The war unquestionably increased the prosperity and physical comfort (and taxes!) of
                    virtually every resident of Indiana.
            The question that inevitably arises in the minds of thoughtful Hoosiers is whether these gains were
                    purchased at too high a price in the immediate losses of the war or in that spiritual demoralization
                    which we have learned to expect in the train of Mars. While the commission does not have categorical
                    answers to this question, it has collected data of the sort not ordinarily found even in the
                    newspapers, which may help ultimately to arrive at the answer. One of the best jobs of research done
                    for the War History Commission was carried on by Max Cavnes, in the field of social changes in the
                    Indiana community during the war years. Cavnes not only examined the supply of materials on this
                    all-embracing topic in the commission files and in the Indiana newspapers, but he searched the
                    National Archives in 
                        Washington
                     and found there, in the reports of federal investigators for a number of wartime
                    agencies, information which serves to balance the somewhat overly optimistic view which Hoosiers are
                    likely to take of their own accomplishments. The reports of Fair Employment Practices Committee
                    investigators show that despite all the vigorous efforts of the biracial committees, 
                  
                     46 Blackburn, "Hoosier Arsenal,"
                        491–492.
               
                     Negro workers continued to be the victims of discrimination by
                    many employers, labor unions, and even some officials of the 
                        United States
                     Employment Service. On the whole, the war brought improvements in the lot of the Negro,
                    but there were still many places in Indiana at war's end where he could not be employed as
                    a skilled laborer, get a technical education, live in a modern house, or buy a meal in a
                        restaurant.47
            
            Indiana's children may be thought of as another minority group victimized by the war. At
                    school they suffered from overcrowded, underheated, obsolete classrooms, forced upon them by the
                    necessary cessation of the normal school-building program, and from too few and too poorly trained
                    teachers. This was the result, not only of the war, which drafted great numbers of teachers into the
                    armed services, but of years of pinch-penny policy which drove good teachers with inadequate
                    salaries into more highly paid war jobs.48 At home the children suffered from
                    the neglect of parents, especially when mothers as well as fathers accepted full time employment in
                    war plants. State and federal agencies did something for the babies by encouraging the establishment
                    of day nurseries,49 but the rise in juvenile delinquency among the
                    "latchkey children" was probably beyond the wit of man to counteract. The
                    establishment of boys clubs and teen-age recreation centers by many communities was a worthy
                    gesture, but it did not strike at the root of the problem—nothing short of the revival of
                    the American home could do that.50
            
            The most pitiful victims of the war, because the most helpless, were the inmates of
                    Indiana's institutions for the paupers, the aged, the physical and mental defectives, and
                    the lawbreakers. From county home and city jail to state asylum and penitentiary, these institutions
                    were, almost without exception, a disgrace to a civilized people. The evidence for this statement
                    lies, not in the exposures of sensation-seeking journalists, but in the annual reports of the
                    superintendents 
                  
                     47 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 196–325.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 564–565. Indiana Teacher (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924-), LXXXVI (1941–1942), 168, 224.
                  
                     49 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 422–424.
                            Indiana Defense Council, "Defense News Letter, Bulletin No. 1," November
                            16, 1942, War History Commission files.
                  
                     50 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 452–476.
                                Hoosier Civilian Soldier (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), March 4,1944; this was a State Defense Council publication.
               
                     themselves—a form of literature which, apparently,
                    nobody ever bothers to read. The less said about this painful subject, perhaps, the better. Suffice
                    it to say that the war simply aggravated almost beyond endurance the evils which had long haunted
                    these places of misery—totally inadequate budgets, grossly underpaid and consequently
                    incompetent personnel, and obsolete equipment. In 1942, Indiana ranked thirty-ninth among the
                    forty-eight states in her provision for mental cases.51 The only gain which the
                    war may be said to have brought was a renewed consciousness of duty on the part of the people, and a
                    genuine desire for reform, which has since borne fruit.
            To turn from a subject on which there is no excuse for ignorance to one in which the truth is usually
                    concealed from the public, Cavnes's research in the records of the Social Protection
                    Division of the Federal Security Agency, headed by Indiana's own Paul V. McNutt, revealed
                    the sorry fact that the director's home state gave his agents less than half-hearted
                    support in their efforts to suppress wartime prostitution. This program of suppression was not
                    undertaken as a moral crusade but as the only effective way to control venereal disease which had
                    incapacitated the equivalent of twenty-three divisions in the army during World War I. That Indiana,
                    swarming as it was with men in uniform during the early months of the war, needed a program of
                    venereal control was made abundantly clear by selective service doctors who discovered syphilis
                    infection in thirty-four out of every thousand Hoosiers they examined—the highest rate in
                    any state north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River.52 Unfortunately, the suppression of prostitution was not
                    within the constitutional powers of the federal government—it depended entirely upon
                    local law and law enforcement. The agents of the Social Protection Division could only advise,
                    plead, and exhort. This they did with good effect in many Indiana towns, but in others they found
                    that the ancient alliance between prostitution and politics still prevailed—there were
                    too many mayors, police chiefs, or district attorneys who were indifferent or openly hostile to a
                    disturbance of the 
                  
                     51 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 528–529.
                            Indiana Council for Mental Health, Annual Report, 1942, pp.
                            20–25.
                  
                     52 Cavnes. "Hoosier Community," 378–379.
                            Indiana State Board of Health, Monthly Bulletin (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899-), XLVII (1944), 184.
               
                     status quo in their red light districts.53
                    Here was one area in which the exercise of local self-government and the rejection of federal
                    interference reflected no credit upon Indiana.
            To end this survey upon a more cheerful note it might be well to examine briefly the effect of the
                    war upon higher learning in Indiana. It is a matter for astonishment and pride that all but one of
                    Indiana's forty-three colleges and universities survived the harrowing problems of the war
                    years when male students virtually disappeared from the campuses, faculty members were drafted into
                    government service, and incomes from endowment as well as from tuition dwindled to a tiny trickle. 
                        Wabash
                     College, with a normal average enrollment of about 450, was down to ten civilian
                    students in 1945, and even Indiana University, supported by the state treasury, had incurred a
                    deficit of $264,000 by the middle of the war.54 The means by which
                    college administrators and professors solved these problems were no less ingenious than the devices
                    by which Indiana business men overcame their production snafus. Accelerated programs, budget-paring,
                    eloquent appeals to alumni and church constituencies, curriculum changes, faculty overloading,
                    campaigns for more coed and 4-F students, research contracts, and—of
                    course—major assistance from the federal government in the form of army and navy training
                    programs saved the day. It should be noted, however, that twenty-four of the state's
                    colleges managed to survive without federal assistance of any kind, and that, contrary to outside
                    impressions, those which undertook the training of soldiers or sailors reaped no golden harvests
                    from Uncle Sam's treasury—the contracts were carefully devised to meet expenses
                    and nothing more.55 Most interesting of all was the adaptation which college
                    professors, who are sometimes regarded as mental incompetents outside their chosen specialties, were
                    able 
                  
                     53 Cavnes. "Hoosier Community," 381–417.
                            Cavnes cites many instances, based on numerous reports from Janet S. Burgoon, Regional
                            Social Protection Representative, to Eliot Ness, Director of the Social Protection Division,
                            Office of Community War Services, in General Classified Files, Record Group 215, Box 104,
                            National Archives.
                  
                     54 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community," 669–680,
                            708–709. Robert S. Harvey, "
                                Wabash
                             College in World War II" (MS, War History Commission files),
                            4–7; "Statement to the State Budget Committee Adopted by the Board of
                            Trustees of Indiana University, January 30, 1943" (MS, State Defense Council
                            files), 3.
                  
                     55 Cavnes, "Hoosier Community,"
                        706–707.
               
                     to make to the war's demands. Music teachers learned to
                    instruct budding airmen in celestial navigation, art instructors taught draftsmanship, biologists
                    dissected internal combustion engines, and at least one history professor became a so-called expert
                    in Morse code. Whether this versatility carried over into the postwar period is another question
                    which the War History Commission has not asked itself.
            The War History Commission was not told to write a history of Indiana's intellectual
                    response to the war: perhaps that cannot be done. Did World War II engender the same kind of
                    hysteria in Hoosiers which led them to prohibit the teaching of German in the schools in 1917? Did
                    Indiana succumb to the kind of postwar depravity which had fostered the Ku Klux Klan in the
                    twenties? Did Hoosiers, on the other hand, achieve a new sense of world responsibility and a new
                    understanding of world problems from their participation in the war? Perhaps they did. But the
                    evidence is not yet complete and irrefutable. Only time, and future historians, will tell.
            APPENDIX
            INDIANA WAR HISTORY COMMISSION PUBLICATIONS
            The ten volumes under the general title Indiana in World War II which were
                    authorized by the executive committee of the commission in 1947 are listed below with full
                    publishing data. Copies of the volumes which have thus far been published are available upon order
                    from the Indiana War History Commission, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. The Commission will also receive orders for the entire series, or any
                    specified part of the series, the volumes not yet published to be delivered and paid for upon
                    publication. The commission is not authorized by law to make donations of copies, but library and
                    school orders are allowed a 20 per cent discount from list price.
            
               Volume I GOLD STAR HONOR ROLL. (This title is being published at present in the form of
                        booklets containing the Honor Roll for a single county, or two adjoining  counties. The booklets are priced at 25 or 30 cents each. After all
                        county rolls have been compiled, bound volumes of the complete state roll will be issued.)
               Volume II LETTERS FROM FIGHTING HOOSIERS. Selected and edited by Howard H. Peckham and Shirley
                        A. Snyder. (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1948, pp. xv, 406. Foreword by Governor Ralph W. Gates, preface, introduction,
                        index, illustration. $5.00.) This volume consists of 131 letters actually written by
                        Indiana men and women in the armed services from nearly every battlefield of World War II.
               Volume III THE HOOSIER TRAINING GROUND. Compiled by Dorothy Riker. (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1952, pp. xiv, 381. Illustrations, appendices, index. $5.00.) This
                        volume contains the individual histories of the nineteen most important military installations
                        on Indiana soil.
               Volume IV INDIANA AT WAR: CIVILIAN DIRECTORY. Compiled by Lynn W. Turner and Heber P. Walker. (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1951, pp. xxi, 1330. Foreword by Governor Henry F. Schricker, preface, indices,
                        illustrations. $12.50.) This volume contains brief descriptions and personnel
                        directories of some 1,800 governmental, civic, and volunteer wartime organizations.
               Volume V THE HOOSIER ARSENAL. (Under preparation. Probable price, $5.00.) This
                        volume will cover the story of Indiana industry, transportation, labor, and economic development
                        during the war.
               Volume VI HOOSIER FARMERS IN WAR TIME. (Probable price, $4.00.) This volume, to be
                        prepared by Purdue University, will recite the contribution of Indiana agriculture to victory
                        and the war's effects on Hoosier farmers.
               Volume VII INDIANA'S FINANCIAL ROLE IN WORLD WAR II. (Under preparation. Probable
                        price, $4.00.) War Bond sales, banking, finance, taxation, and price control.
               Volume VIII INDIANA'S CIVILIAN SOLDIERS. (Under preparation. Probable price,
                        $5.00.) The history of the Indiana State Defense Council and its allied agencies.
               
               Volume IX THE HOOSIER COMMUNITY AT WAR. (Under preparation. Probable price, $6.00.)
                        The impact of the war upon Indiana's people, her schools, and her social agencies.
               Volume X INDIANA IN A WORLD AT WAR. (Probable price, $4.00.) This volume will be a
                        summary and analysis of the entire series in a popular vein.
            
         
         
            CALENDAR OF HISTORICAL MEETINGS
            The Indiana History Workshop for 1956 will be held at McCormick's Creek State Park,
                    beginning Thursday evening, May 3, and ending Sunday, May 6. The spring meeting of the Junior
                    Historical Society is scheduled for Saturday, April 14, at DePauw University.
            Coe College, Cedar Rapids, 
                        Iowa
                    , is planning a "Midwest Heritage Conference" for April 5, 6, and 7,
                    1956. Conference meetings are open to the general public; a $5.00 registration fee admits
                    the participant to all social activities connected with the conference. Further information can be
                    obtained from Dr. John J. Murray, Coe College.
         
         
         
            Cultural History of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Theater, 1880–1890
            
                    Eva Draegert
                    *
                
            The place of the theater among the fine arts in 
                        Indianapolis
                     history was still a matter for dispute in the 1880's. Henry Irving, after his
                    visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1884, told a 
                        New York
                     reporter that he was not impressed by the culture of the city. He thought the theater
                    there might some day become a " 'very good place of amusement,'
                    " but at the moment 
                        Indianapolis
                     was not a congenial home for high forms of art. Many persons would rather pay ten cents
                    for an afternoon in a side show. The local press, he thought, was far ahead of the people. The
                    editor of the News countered that in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Irving had enjoyed larger audiences in proportion to its population than anywhere else
                    in the country except on one occasion in 
                        Chicago
                    , and that the general reaction was excellent, for the audience was responsive in a high
                    degree to every action in his performance. Previously Irving had actually commended 
                        Indianapolis
                     audiences for their preference for Shakespeare over melodrama. Furthermore, the editor
                    pointed out, to know people, one must meet them in their homes, and that privilege had been denied
                        Irving.1
            
            Another criticism levelled at the theater came from the pulpit, which attacked the ballet as a device
                    of the devil; therefore it was the duty of Christians to discountenance it. The editor of the Sentinel defended the ballet by declaring that it was as permanently fixed as the
                    drama or the opera, and that it was picturesque and pretty. Though the nudity of ballet was its
                    chief attraction, fashion had approved this nudity on the stage, and there it would stay regardless
                    of the opinions of pulpit or press.2
            
            Generally speaking, in the 1880's 
                        Indianapolis
                     was regarded as a good show town, though the business was not 
                  
                     * Eva Draegert is instructor in social studies at Woodruff
                            High School, Peoria, 
                                Illinois
                            . For background information see her "Theater in 
                                Indianapolis
                             Before 1880," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), LI (1955), 121–138.
                  
                     1
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, March 28, 1884.
                  
                     2
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, December 29. 1886,
               
                     very profitable during the early years of the decade while the
                    two principal theaters were active rivals. This cutthroat policy ended when all theaters in the city
                    went under the same management. Reports of traveling companies in 1887 were favorable to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They commonly regarded this as a three-night stand, that is, three nights and a
                    matinee. 
                        Indianapolis
                     also claimed that the average receipts for each performance in the preceding season
                    were greater than at 
                        Louisville
                    , Milwaukee, 
                        Detroit
                    , 
                        Cleveland
                    , or 
                        Cincinnati
                    .3
            
            In 1881 theater managers estimated the theater-going public of the city at about ten thousand. On
                    this basis, it was felt that a paying patronage could not possibly be furnished for three
                    first-class theaters because there simply were not enough people.4 During fair
                    week, of course, business always boomed, and larger audiences could be expected. In 1887 record
                    attendance at all theaters was observed. All seats were filled and hundreds were unable to gain
                    admittance. But among those who usually attended were some crude and uncouth persons who disturbed
                    and annoyed others in the audience. The editor threatened to publish his list of names of such
                    persons, whom he branded as "gadwumps," if their conduct did not improve. Manager
                    George Dickson thought some of this poor attitude was probably a result of the actions of management
                    itself, for during the period of competition when business was divided the managers could not fill
                    their houses by showing only first-class productions at good prices; they therefore resorted to
                    lower type shows at cheaper prices. Since people had lost confidence and were not attracted by the
                    better shows, the whole business deteriorated, giving 
                        Indianapolis
                     a poor reputation as a show town. By 1888 Dickson asserted that this period had passed
                    and that he intended to build up the business and improve the city's reputation5—good advertisement, of course, for all theaters in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were then united under his management.
            The types of shows presented in the 1880's varied all the way from Shakespeare to variety,
                    with the latter definitely on the increase. Burlesque was extremely popular, but since there were
                    not enough of these shows to fill the season, variety bills were assembled with the assistance of 
                        New York
                    
                    
                  
                     3
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 26, 1887.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., January 6, 1881.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., September 23 and November 25, 1887, January 4, 1888; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, September 24 and 30, 1886.
               
                     vaudeville agents. Phineas T. Barnum's circus continued
                    to attract many with its famous elephant, Jumbo, its hippodrome races, menagerie, and specialty
                        performers.6
            
            George Dickson's opinion notwithstanding, the legitimate theater itself was felt to be in a
                    decline. The change from the old system of local stock to the itinerant combination meant that the
                    entire cast with scenery, costumes, and properties travelled from town to town. Thus the local
                    theater was reduced to nothing but a shell of what it had formerly been. At one time a complete
                    organization of artists and actors with a talented and capable manager could be found in every town;
                    only the star traveled and found his support and all the mechanism of the play ready in each theater
                    to perform with him. An aura of dignity surrounded the star, who strongly favored only high-class
                    plays. Now the combination system changed all that. The tremendous expense involved in transporting
                    scenery and costumes as well as large companies of actors caused actors' salaries to
                    suffer. The only solution was to make more money. Since an increase in box office receipts required
                    larger audiences, managers sought cheaper shows to attract more classes of people, for only lower
                    prices would permit them to attend. This theater for revenue only brought about its own
                    deterioration as well as that of public taste; the decline was felt somewhat in tragedy, more in
                    drama, but most in comedy. The best patrons of the theater were thus being driven from it, were
                    losing the habit of going to the theater, and would not attend even the better shows which were
                    sometimes presented. The chief advantage of the combination system was that it favored the smaller
                    cities and towns, where good local stock was never profitable, and where no one had had an
                    opportunity to attend the theater regularly. The combination system gave these communities their
                    first taste of the theater. A company would perform in any town along its route which could muster
                    up an audience of any size.7 At one time in 1885 there were 393 companies on
                    tour in the country, the largest number since the beginning of the system. Of these, about
                    two-thirds were dramatic companies, with the balance divided among musical comedy, vaudeville,
                    minstrel, circuses, and miscellaneous. The total 
                  
                     6 Bernard Sobel, Burleycue: An Underground History of
                                Burlesque Days (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 80; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 21, 1883.
                  
                     7
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, October 17, December 8, 1885; April 10, 1886.
               
                     box office receipts in America for one forty-week season were
                    estimated at approximately $38,400,000, but much of this went to railroads, hotels, and
                    managers, with actors at the bottom of the list.8
            
            Combinations usually carried all their properties with them, but a notable exception was a popular
                    melodrama which borrowed horses from a local owner. The Still Alarm was an
                    exciting piece introducing two white horses, Pegasus and Bucephalus, recruited from a local milk or
                    beer wagon. The high point of the evening came in Act III, the Central Fire Station Scene. The hero
                    had smashed his hotel window of real glass and dashed down from the fifth floor on the fire escape.
                    At the fire house, the alarm came in, the horses ran to their places, and firemen slid down the pole
                    from their beds. A shout, a clash, and the curtain came down as the engine, all steamed up and with
                    sparks flying, pulled by the plunging horses, careened across the stage. This scene never failed to
                    bring the audience to a high pitch of excitement.9 Not only horses, but trained
                    dogs and monkeys, or dogs and ponies were seen frequently on the stage during the
                        1880's.10
            
            During this decade some of the greatest stars of all time were popular, and many of them came to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Sarah Bernhardt and Henry Irving made their first American appearances in the
                    eighties, Bernhardt in 1880, and Irving in 1883. Tommaso Salvini, an Italian actor famous as
                    Othello, came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1886. Augustin Daly's company with Ada Rehan, especially admired for her
                    Katherine in Taming of the Shrew, toured the country during the 1880's.
                    Lily Langtry, the "Jersey Lily," was a favorite, and Minnie Maddern Fiske made her
                    debut in 1885. Other stars from the 
                        New York
                     stage who appeared in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the decade were Edwin Booth, Lawrence Barrett, Joseph Jefferson, Joe Emmett,
                    Lotta Crabtree, Frank Mayo, Fanny Davenport, Clara Morris, and Charlotte Thompson.11
            
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., December 25, 1885.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., November 21, 22, and 23, 1887; interview with Anna Hasselman, who saw a
                        performance of The Still Alarm in 1887 and remembers it vividly. A native of 
                            Indianapolis
                         and prominent in 
                            Indianapolis
                         cultural activities, Miss Hasselman was for many years curator, instructor, and
                        lecturer at John Herron Art Museum.
               
                  10
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, May 1, 1888.
               
                  11 Sobel, Burleycue, 41; Montrose J. Moses and John M.
                        Brown (eds.), The American Theatre as Seen by its Critics,
                        1752–1934 (
                            New York
                        , 1934), 371.
            
            
            According to the 
                        United States
                     census for 1880, 
                        Indianapolis
                     offered the following places of amusement: "Grand opera-house, seating 1,608,
                    and Park theater, seating 1,200. There are also, under the control of singing societies and used
                    mostly for amateur performance, Germania theater, seating 600, and Männerchor hall,
                    seating 500. The two first mentioned pay a yearly license fee of $100 each. Of
                    concert-halls, etc., having no stage appliances, there are Masonic hall, a large room in Masonic
                    temple, seating capacity 800; Mozart hall, situated on the third floor of a business house, seating
                    500; 
                        Washington
                     hall, on the third floor of a business block, capacity 600; and Ryan's hall,
                    also on a third floor, capacity 400. Among the pleasure resorts are the following concert-and
                    beer-gardens: Gome's garden and theater, which superseded a garden attached to a saloon, is
                    roofed over, has a permanent stage, a capacity of from 800 to 1,000, and is open the year round; and
                    Gilmore's Zoöological garden, with a saloon attached, in which music is
                    furnished. These two places pay an annual license to the city. In addition there are many saloons
                    that have music and give variety performances, but they can hardly be classed as concert-and
                        beer-gardens."12
            
            On September 27, 1880, the new English's Opera House was formally opened to the public with
                    a performance of Hamlet, starring Lawrence Barrett. Some had attempted to dissuade
                    William H. English when he had announced his intentions in March, 1880, but he planned to erect a
                    building that would serve both the state and the nation, for he hoped to complete his theater in
                    time for the 1880 political conven-ventions. Perhaps English's only concern was the welfare
                    of his son, William E., who appeared restless and uncertain as to his career in life and travelled
                    about the world wherever his fancy led him. No doubt the father understood his son's
                    fondness for the theater, for the complete management of the opera house was at once turned over to
                        him.13
            
            
               
                  12
                        Tenth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1880, Social Statistics, II, 452.
               
                  13 Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), I, 470. Darrell Gooch, "History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Stage, 1875–90" (2 vols.; Master's thesis, State
                        University of 
                            Iowa
                        , 1932), I, 67. William H. English to William E. English, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , September 20, 1874, and 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., March 30, 1878, MSS, English Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . William H. English had urged his son to marry but to choose wisely, since this
                        step was important for the English fortunes, which were then at their peak. Yet there is no
                        substantial evidence that the father objected when in July, 
            
            
            William H. English, long active in both state and national politics, had been chosen secretary of the
                    Indiana constitutional convention. He had done well in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in both real estate and banking. In June, 1880, he was nominated for vice-president of
                    the 
                        United States
                     on the Democratic ticket with Winfield S. Hancock. The press, however, asserted that
                    the campaign would not interfere with work on the opera house. The opening date had been previously
                    announced to be September 27, and occasional items reminded the public that this schedule would be
                    met. Lawrence Barrett, who had agreed to play the opening performance, visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     and made suggestions for slight changes in the plans, which were followed.14
            
            When completed, English's Opera House was admitted by its manager to be unquestionably the
                    finest theater in the West. It had, he declared, perfect acoustical qualities, for Adelina Patti,
                    after her concert, had said to young English, " 'I want to congratulate you on
                    having the easiest theatre to sing in in which I have appeared in America.' "
                    Henry Irving also congratulated English on the way speech could be used in the theater.15
            
            Modelled after the Grand Opera House in 
                        New York
                    , the 78 by 76 foot auditorium seated 2,000 people in a parquet circle, family circle,
                    two galleries, and twelve private boxes. The interior was finished in Egyptian style in white, gold,
                    and walnut, with crimson draperies. The stage, 47 feet deep by 40 feet wide, commanded from
                    subcellar to top of rigging a total height of 97 feet for manipulating scenery. Six cuts or
                    divisions in the stage permitted a capacity of 40 sets of flats besides two drop curtains. All
                    curtains and drops could be raised out of sight without rolling. Dressing rooms, more than a dozen
                    in all, were equipped with gas, and both hot and cold water. Stock scenery was painted by R. H.
                    Hally, formerly of Drury Lane Theater in 
                        London
                    , but at that time of Pope's Theater, 
                        St. Louis
                    . The theater could be entered 
                  1880, the son married actress Annie Fox of the 
                                Philadelphia
                             stage. But lack of formal announcements of the marriage or of any sort of
                            reception which a young bride of a member of such a family might normally expect does seem
                            to indicate some degree of parental displeasure. The family's penchant for
                            publishing affairs of social import makes it clear that, had there been such formalities,
                            the press would have noted them.
                  
                     14
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 11 and 24, June 25, July 26, 1880.
                  
                     15 W. E. English on English's Opera House, MS, English
                            Collection.
               
                     from the street through a seventy-eight-foot corridor, the floor
                    of which inclined slightly so that no steps were necessary to reach the main floor of the
                    auditorium. This corridor was decorated with frescoed walls and ceiling and an elaborately designed
                    tile floor. Though the News stated that the theater was to be lighted with
                    electricity, its first illumination was with gas, by means of a magnificent wrought-iron chandelier
                    in the center of the auditorium; a row of gas jets in a trough at the front of the stage constituted
                    the footlights.16 Its complete staff of officers included a music director,
                    Henry D. Beissenherz, a stage carpenter, scenic artist, scene painter, two propertymen,
                    bill-posters, several ushers and doorkeepers, the treasurer, and the assistant manager.17 Manager Will E. English was thus free to travel east whenever necessary to
                    engage talent.
            A long list of famous stars appeared at English's Opera House during the 1880's,
                    including in their repertoire comedy and tragedy, and both light and grand opera. For variety,
                    minstrels and burlesques were interspersed, even a trained horse show and a vaudeville which
                    presented trained dogs and birds along with roller-skaters and jugglers.18
                    Outstanding dramas of the decade began with the opening which featured Lawrence Barrett. He offered
                        Hamlet, as well as The Merchant of Venice, David Garrick, Julius
                        Caesar, Yorick's Love, Richelieu, and Rosedale. The next high
                    point of the season came in March, 1881, with William E. Sheridan's performance of Louis XI. English not only contracted with the star for this production but called
                    a special company from 
                        New York
                     to support him, for the local stock available did not seem satisfactory. Nearly a
                    hundred supernumeraries, probably local persons, were used in one scene. The great trouble and
                    expense in arranging for this production were undertaken because Mrs. English (Annie Fox) was
                    expected to appear opposite the star, a role she had taken the year before at the Chestnut Street
                    Theater in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .19
            
            
               
                  16
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, September 22, 1880; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, August 13, 1880; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, June 1, 1930.
               
                  17 Programs of English's Opera House, September 27, 1880, English
                        Collection; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, September 22, 1880.
               
                  18
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, October 9, 1888, April 25, 1884.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., September 28, 1880; March 10, 22, and 24, 1881. Annie Fox English
                        failed to appear for some reason, possibly her health, for she was ill almost continuously after
                        she came to 
                            Indianapolis
                         until her death in 1885.
            
            
            Anna Dickinson, the unusual actress who dressed like a man, played the title role in Hamlet in 1882 and charmed her audience by her intellect, elocution, and enunciation.
                    Margaret Mather in Romeo and Juliet and Charlotte Thompson in Jane
                        Eyre gave an elevated tone to the early part of the next season. The critic was not
                    favorable to the former, and severely criticized her support, Alexander Salvini as Romeo, who was
                    usually considered a great actor.20
            
            In September, 1883, the great Thomas W. Keene appeared in Macbeth and rated a most
                    searching comment from the critic of the News. The quality of this criticism is
                    superior to that found in other papers of the period and is characteristic of the style of writing
                    of that time.
            "Mr. Keene made a popular success as 'Macbeth' before a brilliant audience
                    last night; but not an artistic success. Macbeth is not an inviting character nor an inviting play
                    for the stage. All the evil powers of earth and air are called on, uncanny spirits, bats and toads,
                    'hell-broth,' dire prophecy, 'murder most foul,' the wickedest
                    ambitions of distorted humanity, have a generous and noble nature 'infirm of
                    purpose' to work on for its destruction. Mr. Keene's conception is not harmonious
                    in giving the proper proportions to this dual character. He emphasizes too much its infirmity. His
                    Macbeth at times becomes almost a whimpering, terror-stricken boy. He does not get an intellectual
                    grasp of the character which reaches its core, but plays it from the surface, and hence lacks
                    dignity. Not to make an odious comparison, he has in his leading support an example of the manly
                    strength and repose he would do well to emulate. Popular appreciation of tempestuous acting in this
                    country has been largely molded by the universal prevalence of stump oratory. When a man shakes the
                    hair down over his eyes and stamps and roars and defies the other party he always rides on waves of
                    applause. Accordingly when Mr. Keene did just that as Macbeth, he was greeted with applause and cat
                    calls. The tendency to rant in Macbeth is almost inevitable, and Mr. Keene ranted. He tore every
                    passion to tatters and overdid everything, with the exception of his first Sight of
                    Banquo's ghost. There his action was high and noble, not merely noisy, but forcible. On the
                    contrary at the second view of the ghost he squealed and spluttered in headlong declamation as
                    mechanical 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., March 14, October 6 and 20, 1882.
               
                     as the explosion of a bunch of fire crackers. There was, too,
                    with him and with some of the other characters, too much of the common burglar style of slipping
                    around the room and feeling for the doors and windows in order to indicate suppressed fear and the
                    tension of watchfulness. On the other hand great praise is due the star for his industry and
                    earnestness; he slights nothing, and his 'business,' never slovenly, was almost
                    always effective. Nothing could have been better than his death scene. There one climax capped
                    another in the most thrilling and effective way possible. The support was unusually good, deserving
                    of a specification which space will not here allow. The result was a performance more evenly
                    excellent than is generally given."21
            
            Later that season, in February, 1884, Henry Irving and Ellen Terry came for three nights. Supported
                    by the Lyceum Company, they opened with two unimportant pieces and followed with Louis
                        XI and Merchant of Venice. Irving was regarded as the perfect Louis XI.
                    The commentator said that "in all theatrical effects, in the expression of physical facts,
                    in the use of every bit of mechanism … Irving is perfect." Testifying to
                    audience appreciation, "The first two acts were played almost to the music of applause, so
                    frequently did these spontaneous demonstrations burst forth. … the applause would not be
                    denied and he had to wait until it spent itself. On the contrary in the last act the unbroken
                    silence was painful. Finer testimony to an artist's power was not given than by last
                    night's audience."22 As for Miss Terry, "Words fail
                    to depict this 'Portia.' The exquisite sensibility causes real tears. …
                    Has all this ever been equalled? … When she kneels to Bassanio … the audience
                    hugged the humor of it to its very soul; and last of all the loving reconciliation that takes
                    'Bassanio' and 'Antonio' by the hand, shed a sweetness on the
                    scene once felt never to be forgotten. When shall we ever see such a 'Portia?'
                    When such a performance of 'the Merchant of Venice?' The audience filled the house
                    in every part, and one so wrapt, so spontaneous in its manifestations of delight, is rarely
                        seen."23
            
            Clara Morris appeared later that season in The New Magdelen and in Camille, playing to large and enthusiastic 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., September 20, 1883.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., February 8, 1884.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., February 9, 1884.
               
                     audiences. The famous Adah Richmond presented her burlesque, The Sleeping Beauty, at the opening of the 1885 season. Helena Modjeska came in
                    1887 in Dona Diana, greeted by almost constant applause, and a few days later,
                    Herrmann, the magician, enjoyed a "vast" and delighted audience, yet a
                    representative one.24
            
            No doubt the greatest dramatic event at English's for the entire decade was the joint
                    appearance in 1889 of Lawrence Barrett and Edwin Booth in a series of presentations. In The Merchant of Venice, Booth played Shylock, and Barrett, Bassanio; in Hamlet, Booth was Hamlet, and Barrett, Laertes. Booth played Bertuccio in The
                        Fool's Revenge, while Barrett played Yorick in Yorick's
                        Love. It was generally felt that because of his age and poor health Booth was making his
                    final appearance in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Men and boys stood in line at the ticket office from Thursday night until Saturday
                    morning, when the tickets went on sale. Many theater parties came from out of town. Audiences
                    completely filled the theater, were "brilliant and appreciative," manifesting
                    enjoyment "no less by strained attention than by frequent and marked applause."25
            
            An interesting comment on the character of the theatergoing public of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was occasioned by the appearance in November, 1888, of Ezra Kendall, comedian, in A Pair of Kids. Probably of no importance dramatically, the piece was regarded as
                    the most amusing thing seen in many months, and Kendall was regarded as "immense."
                    He played the role of Jiles Buttons, an old countryman who had many exciting but exaggerated
                    experiences in 
                        New York
                    . Kendall showed much originality in "gags," business, and methods;
                    his make-up was as funny as his actions, and everything he did brought a laugh. He could make people
                    laugh and keep them laughing immoderately and incessantly until they forgot why. Kendall commented
                    to his printer, Otto Hasselman of the Journal Printing Company, that when he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     he had to be on his toes, for audiences there were extremely alert. In southern cities
                    he had to pause often before reaching the climax of a joke, to allow his audience 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., April 30, May 1, 1884; Evening Minute (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), September 4, 1885; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, December 30, 1887, and January 10, 1888.
                  
                     25
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 10, 13, and 20, 1889.
               
                     to catch the point and to become aware that he was about to make
                    one. But in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he said, he had to talk as fast as he could or the audience would grasp the point
                    before he made it and the laugh would then come ahead of schedule.26
            
            From the time English's Opera House opened in 1880, it was involved in bitter rivalry with
                    the Grand Opera House; much of it was normal business competition, each manager striving to sign up
                    the finest and best the 
                        New York
                     stage had to offer. But because the number of paying theater-goers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was somewhat limited, the competition turned into a struggle for survival and
                    occasionally descended to a low level, becoming petty, bitter, and personal. English often gave vent
                    to his feelings in his advertising columns and in the news items in his theater programs. From the
                    beginning of this rivalry, Dickson Brothers had advertised the Grand Opera House as the largest and
                    best theater in Indiana. English claimed that distinction for his own theater, and finally issued a
                    statement which was published several times in both the News and in the Daily Stage, his theater program. He declared that English's Opera House
                    was the largest and best theater in Indiana, but that advertisements in the newspapers often called
                    Dickson's the largest and best. "Now, for the benefit of these persons, or any
                    other adventurous gentlemen, who may desire to chance their substance thereon, and in order to
                    settle this question decisively now and forever, the following wagers are proposed: (1) From
                    $100 to $5,000 that English's Opera House has more seats on the first
                    floor than Dickson's Opera House." Then followed eight more propositions, betting
                    a like amount that English's floors, stage, and entire auditorium were larger and that it
                    was safer from fire hazards. The article concluded with the statement that the propositions were
                    "to be taken as a whole, and count, measurement and decision to be made 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., November 20, 1888; interview with Anna Hasselman. It may be pointed
                            out that it was customary for actors to arrange personally with local printers for their own
                            programs and advertising. The printers thus came to know many members of the acting
                            profession and often became deeply interested in the stage. Local people also enjoyed other
                            contacts with famous stars of both the legitimate and concert stage. Since three-night
                            stands were common for the better performers, local socialites made the most of their
                            opportunities and frequently arranged receptions or teas for their favorites. Stars who
                            returned year after year thus formed friendships and occasionally a member of the profession
                            acquired property and came to live in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     by disinterested architects. Money and man to be found on
                    application at box office. Put up or shut up!"27 Shortly thereafter
                    English's was advertised as the "largest and best theater in Indiana,"
                    and in the same column the Grand Opera House was announced as "The Beautiful—the
                    Popular—the Convenient."28
            
            W. E. English often boasted that his offerings were higher class than those appearing at the Grand
                    and that those who performed at the latter place did so only because they found it impossible to
                    obtain a date on the already full schedule at English's. He also pointed out that
                    English's engaged only first-class attractions and kept open every week with the best
                    performers on the road, while the Grand had not been open one full week out of seven; at one time
                    the latter was closed entirely for two weeks because it could not obtain first-class entertainment.
                    On other occasions he insisted he would never descend to the practice common to the Grand, that of
                    Sunday shows. But he was not always consistent: Program notes stated that Dickson's
                    employed low-quality actors such as Ada Gray and Frank Frayne; later he announced as coming
                    attractions at English's those same actors.29
            
            This rivalry ended at the close of the 1885–1886 season when Henry Talbott leased
                    English's Opera House for a year, with a five-year option. Talbott had formed a partnership
                    with George A. Dickson and would be sole manager of the English, while Dickson remained manager of
                    the Grand. The effect of the partnership would be to end the keen competition that had had a bad
                    result on theatrical business for all concerned. It was also announced that the English Hotel had
                    been leased to a hotel man from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and that W. E. English would go abroad. English continued to manage his Opera House
                    until 1887, when he made a three-year tour of Europe and the East.30
            
            W. E. English knew he was competing with not just the Grand Opera House alone but also with the
                    Brooks and Dickson 
                  
                     27
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, March 11, 1882.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., March 17, 1882.
                  
                     29 Programs of English's Opera House, 1881–1882,
                            pp. 196, 249; 1882–1883, p. 179; both are in the English Collection. 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 30, 1881, July 3, 1882.
                  
                     30
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 28, 1886; W. E. English on English's Opera House,
                            MS, English Collection.
               
                     Circuit or syndicate, which was probably the first of its kind
                    in the 
                        United States
                    . Occasional rumors declared that he would join the pool, but he maintained his
                    independence, insisting that he could present a first-class bill and at the same time make more
                    money than his competitor.31
            
            The Dickson-Brooks idea began with the development of stars. James B. Dickson, brother of George A.
                    Dickson and a producer and manager in 
                        New York
                    , together with Joseph W. Brooks, were the first in America to start a chain of stars.
                    They were credited with launching Joe K. Emmett, James Herne, Stuart Robson and William H. Crane,
                    Fanny Davenport, and Mary Anderson. The first theater chain, formed in April, 1880, by James B.
                    Dickson and later joined by Henry M. Talbott, George A. Dickson of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and S. M. Hickey of 
                        Rochester
                    , included 
                        Columbus
                     and Dayton, 
                        Ohio
                    , as well as 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        Vincennes
                    , Anderson, and 
                        Lafayette
                    . A month later were added 
                        Rock Island
                    , Peoria, 
                        Danville
                    , and 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    ; the Keokuk, 
                        Iowa
                    , Opera House; and 
                        Pike
                    's Opera House, 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The syndicate secured the management of twenty-seven theaters in many cities, five of
                    them in Indiana, and planned to organize five stock companies to support many stars. Its ten road
                    combinations, including minstrel companies, would require twenty-five to thirty weeks to complete
                    the circuit. Within a month the chain had expanded to cover seven states.32
            
            The first indication of the battle for control of the theatrical business in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a cut in admission prices. Early in October, 1880, a large advertisement of
                    Dickson's Park Theater announced popular prices. At the same time the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News reported that the combination threatened to undersell English, who had
                    reduced admission charges, and present their actors free; they claimed they would lose little
                    thereby for they were backed by the entire circuit.33 This threat was never
                    carried out, for in 1883, according to rumor, the circuit came to an end. An English's
                    Opera House program reprinted from the 
                  
                            New York
                         Dramatic Times the following statement: "THE
                    
                  
                     31 Programs of English's Opera House, 1882–1883,
                            p. 253, English Collection.
                  
                     32 Gooch, "History of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Stage," I, 62; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 7 and May 15, 1880.
                  
                     33
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, October 4, 1880.
               
                     GRAND (?) CIRCUIT BUSTED.—Mr. Milsom, the manager of the 
                        Nashville
                     theatres, Mr. Macauley, of 
                        Louisville
                    , and Mr. Bidwell, of 
                        New Orleans
                    , have announced that they will have nothing to do with the Brooks and Dickson circuit
                    next season. They have had enough of it. All the more honor to Will E. English, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who would never go into it, and has made money thereby."34
            
            A denial shortly appeared in the News. Brooks and Dickson would not dissolve at the
                    close of the season. They had changed "the scope and method of their business" so
                    that they would own, organize, and pilot combinations after the fashion of other prominent managers.
                    The "grand circuit" idea as such had been abandoned, for George Dickson, manager
                    of the Grand, had bought from Brooks and Dickson and would manage himself the Indiana circuit which
                    included 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Lafayette
                    , Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        Vincennes
                    , and Danville, 
                        Illinois
                    .35
            
            The appearance of the Grand Opera House had changed but slightly. In 1881 it had acquired a new drop
                    curtain; at the same time some redecorating was done and draperies of satin and velvet added. Before
                    the 1882–1883 season opened the walls of the auditorium were refinished with elaborate
                    designs worked out by May Henry, George Dickson, and Eugene Ellis. Redecorations and new carpeting
                    were added in 1885, and in 1886 a wainscoting of quilted blue satin was installed around the walls
                    and across the fronts of the proscenium boxes to contrast with a new interior finish of cherry red.
                    In order to assist patrons in selecting seats, the main floor was described as follows: the first
                    eleven rows, all sofa chairs, were to be known as "orchestra"; the next five rows
                    were the "orchestra circle"; and the six rows nearest the entrance were designated
                    as the "dress circle."36
            
            By 1889 electric lights were tried for the first time at the Grand, for the performance of Little Lord Fauntleroy, with considerable success. Patrons felt that no theater,
                    not even in 
                        New York
                    , was more brilliantly lighted. But improvements 
                  
                     34 Programs of English's Opera House, 1882–1883,
                            p. 157, English Collection.
                  
                     35
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 12, 1883.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., August 19, 1881; September 12, 1882; August 31 and September 1,
                            1885. 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, September 5, 1886. Miss Henry was much interested in
                            dramatics and later became a professional actress.
               
                     were needed, for border and stage lights were too dim, while the
                    bright auditorium lights were left on during the performance, thus making it more difficult to view
                    the stage.37
            
            More famous stars appeared at the Grand during the decade than at English's during the same
                    period. Some of the same stars appeared at both theaters, though generally not in the same season.
                    Brooks and Dickson were in a position to benefit directly from their management of some of the stars
                    and from their supervision of a chain of theaters.
            In 1880 and again in 1881 Richard B. Sheridan's The Rivals was presented
                    at the Grand, with three well-known stars in the leading roles: Joseph Jefferson, Maurice
                    Barry-more, and Mrs. John Drew.38 The 1882 season was outstanding. Jefferson
                    came again to highlight the winter's programs along with Edwin Booth, Fanny Davenport,
                    Lawrence Barrett supported by Otis Skinner, Charlotte Thompson, and Minnie Maddern. These
                    performances were well attended, especially the Edwin Booth plays, which were reported to be the
                    most successful ever given in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , gross receipts totalling $6,630.95. Fool's
                    Revenge had grossed $2,048.75; Othello, $2,118; and Hamlet, $2,463.75. Among the other performances Lawrence
                    Barrett's Cassius in Julius Caesar was most favorably reported by the
                    critic who declared that "Shakespeare should have seen it and learned a lesson in
                        art."39
            
            Joseph Jefferson came again in the 1882–1883 season, delighting his large and brilliant
                    audiences with his Bob Acres in The Rivals and his characterizations in Rip van Winkle. Mrs. John Drew was again in the cast.40 That
                    season's offerings were superior to English's and probably were more outstanding
                    than those of any other season of the decade. The "grand circuit" was running
                    smoothly and could contribute its share toward assembling an excellent program. In addition to
                    Jefferson, there were Mary Anderson, Robson and Crane, Helena Modjeska, Minnie Maddern, Fanny
                    Janauschek, and Robert Mantell. The following season, Maddern, Janauschek, and Modjeska came again
                    and Maurice Barrymore, Clara Morris, Frank Mayo, and Lawrence Barrett 
                  
                     37
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, November 15, 1889.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., December 24, 1880, and October 18, 1881.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., February 27 and April 28, 1882.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., December 22, 1882.
               
                     also played return engagements. The 1885–1886 season
                    presented few celebrities. In 1886–1887, Richard Mansfield, Robert Mantell, Margaret
                    Mather, and Modjeska came, but the 1887–1888 season was somewhat barren. In the
                    1888–1889 season a definite change marked the type of performances. Lily Langtry, Mary
                    Anderson, and Fanny Davenport were presented; but otherwise what seemed to be the outstanding
                    performances were the Thatcher, Primrose, and West Minstrels, said to be the best company on the
                        road,41 and Lydia Thompson with her famous burlesque company doing Penelope. Miss Thompson, an English actress who came to the 
                        United States
                     about 1869, was a beautiful and famous blonde, and one of the first to bring to
                    American theaters her own entire company. Excelling as a dancer, actress, and manager, she gave
                    American burlesque its start. She had also played legitimate theater with Lawrence Barrett, Richard
                    Mansfield, and Edward H. Sothern.42
            
            The legitimate theater still had a little life, for the great Julia Marlowe performed in the
                    1889–1890 season in Ingomar, As You Like It, and Twelfth
                        Night. She was followed by Sol Smith Russell, who was regarded by some as comparable to
                    Jefferson. Then appeared Daniel Frohman's 
                        New York
                     Lyceum Theater Company in a society drama, The Wife, written by David
                    Belasco and Henry C. De Mille. It was a witty and sophisticated play and the audience, alert to all
                    the lines, responded by calling the cast before the curtain at the close of each act. In the cast
                    was Eliza Logan, well known to theater goers of the previous generation. The military play, Shenandoah, was scheduled for January 13, 1890. The original 
                        New York
                     company, under the management of Charles Frohman, was to come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Chicago
                    , and was then to go directly to 
                        San Francisco
                    ; 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were the only two stops between 
                        New York
                     and the west coast.43
            
            It would be difficult to find any other period of history when so many great theatrical stars were
                    available to the public. Some of them had passed the zenith of their careers, while others had not
                    yet reached it, but all of them were in command of excellent dramatic powers. Although today 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., January 24, 1889.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., March 29, 1889; Sobel, Burleycue,
                            26–29.
                  
                     43
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, December 6 and 17, 1889.
               
                     Janauschek and Modjeska are not such familiar names as Booth,
                    Barrymore, Drew, Mantell, Mansfield, and Marlowe, yet in their time they were unsurpassed as
                    dramatic actresses. Both were Polish and seemed to possess unusual ability in personating
                    characters. Madame Janauschek carried her audience by the force of her genius and truthfulness of
                    her portrayal. She stood at the head of a school of acting which was then giving place to the
                    so-called emotional drama. Of Modjeska, critics stated that to criticize her was like trying to
                    "pick flaws in a diamond," so exquisitely perfect was her artistry. Her
                    performance was compared with the art of Meissonier where a crowded canvas showed each detail
                    perfectly. "To specify her delicate work were like describing frost tracery."44 By comparison Maurice Barrymore seemed to strut in egotistical fashion, aware
                    of his handsome appearance, always too much the gentleman with a reserved and somewhat wooden
                    manner, unable to lose himself in the character. Robert Mantell had been Modjeska's leading
                    man the preceding season and appeared in 1883 as a star, demonstrating the greatness of his talent.
                    His vehicle, Romany Rye, a popular play of the time, exhibited unusual scenic and
                    mechanic effects. Richard Mansfield was well received by large audiences who thought his Prince Karl
                    an excellent piece of acting. Clara Morris could portray the complete gamut of emotions with the
                    truthfulness and accuracy of a camera taking a photograph. Her audience showed appreciation by
                    recalling her with applause after every act. Lawrence Barrett in Francesca da
                    Rimini was said to have given the finest personation of his career, and by adapting this play
                    from a reading to an acting version had contributed more to the American stage than any other living
                    actor. One who later saw Booth and Barrett together was much more commendatory to Booth. Barrett
                    possessed a broad British accent which detracted from his characterization and gave the feeling that
                    he never quite lost himself in his role as did Booth. Barrett was quite handsome and considered an
                    ideal Hamlet in appearance.45
            
            Booth came again in 1887. At 54 he had aged perceptibly, but this was soon forgotten, for his
                    magnificent voice and 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., October 23, February 23, and November 2, 1883.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., November 2, 3, and 16, 1883; February 27 and 28, 1883; March 7 and
                            8, 1884. 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, October 20, 1886, Interview with Anna Hasselman.
               
                     powerful facial expression were the same as always. Age had
                    somewhat mellowed his interpretation of Hamlet, which was less melancholy than it
                    had been fifteen years before. Ticket scalpers were hard at work before the performance, but their
                    gleanings did not show up in the total receipts which were, nevertheless, the largest yet reported
                    for a single performance in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —$4,770. Booth was then at the peak of his financial earnings.
                    That season netted him almost $300,000.46
            
            Bad weather had little effect on the attendance at Margaret Mather's Romeo and
                        Juliet, and the critic of the Sentinel commented, "It is to the
                    credit of our people that the Opera-house is crowded nightly to pay tribute to the fair and graceful
                        actress."47
            
            Robson and Crane presented a better all-around company than was common at that time. "It is
                    seldom in these days of acknowledged dramatic degeneracy that the amusement-loving public is
                    afforded the opportunity to witness legitimate comedy as it was last night presented at the Grand
                    Opera House by Robson and Crane. It has grown almost to be established custom where either star or
                    manager essays the production of the legitimate, to surround the central figure with a supporting
                    company of even less than … mediocre abilities, and … make everything entirely
                    dependent on the individual success of the person whose name appears in largest letters on the
                        bills."48 Many prominent stars of the time in like manner bore
                    heavy responsibility for the success of their performances, for the cost of the star could be
                    compensated to the manager by shaving in all other quarters.
            Lily Langtry was commended not so much for her acting as for beautiful and artistic make-up and
                    costuming, in which she was probably unsurpassed on the American stage. She thus gave the impression
                    of great beauty, although some did not hold that opinion.49
            
            
               
                  46
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, May 6, 1887. The largest previous receipts had been those for
                        Bernhardt at the Park, Patti at English's, and Henry Irving. A critic provided a
                        humorous sidelight on this performance. He was seated behind a woman wearing a very high hat. In
                        trying to see over or around the hat, he discovered that its wearer was endeavoring to see over
                        a still higher hat in front of her. He recommended that a section of the theater be reserved to
                        which no women would be admitted.
               
                  47
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, November 10, 1886.
               
                  48
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, March 15, 1887.
               
                  49
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 13, 1888.
            
            
            A very large and excellent audience attended the performance of the incomparable Julia Marlowe in Ingomar. The next night she portrayed Rosalind in As You Like
                    It, and the audience "was one of the largest and the most intelligent …
                    ever in a theater here, and for an 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience, was enthusiastic." Of her role in Twelfth Night,
                    the critic said, "as nearly as human imperfection may compass perfection, it is done in her
                    Viola. … She is only a girl—just turned twenty-one. … In Miss
                    Marlowe there is the star whose splendor in its zenith can not yet be determined. An intention to
                    support this leadership with a following in keeping … will result … in a
                    presentation of Shakespeare … that may … make one of the brightest pages in
                    the annals of the stage."50
            
            Minstrels never failed to attract capacity audiences, and the Thatcher, Primrose, and West Company
                    was an unusually good one. Its program included a Shakespearean first part, a marvel of beauty and
                    picturesqueness with excellent ballad singing; then a short entertaining olio which featured Barney
                    Fagin's drill; and the after-piece presented the Brothers Byrne acrobatic act.51
            
            Toward the close of the decade, burlesques were frequently seen at both the Grand and
                    English's. Lydia Thompson appeared agile as ever, but her voice was somewhat impaired. The
                    critic of the News remarked, "but burlesque is burlesque, and while it is
                    attractive to many, to others it is very tiresome."52
            
            Innovations in performances during this decade seem unusually modern and have since been regarded as
                    new in the twentieth century. One of these, done with success in 1886, was the trick of placing
                    actors in the audience to carry on the plot of the play. Earlier a play entitled Green
                        Room Fun presented by the Saulsbury Company struck the audience as probably the funniest
                    thing they had yet seen on the stage. It was a glimpse of a theater with a play in rehearsal and
                    finally of the green-room while the play was being performed, one professional and four amateurs
                    creating all the fun. Its unique, rapid, and exciting action kept its audience highly
                        entertained.53
            
            
               
                  50
                        Ibid., November 19, 20, and 21, 1889.
               
                  51
                        Ibid., January 24, 1889.
               
                  52
                        Ibid., March 29, 1889.
               
                  53
                        Ibid., January 23, 1886, and March 11, 1882.
            
            
            The theater third in importance was the Metropolitan, or Park. After 1879 it was renovated and opened
                    as the new Park Theater with Joseph Jefferson as the attraction. It remained a legitimate theater
                    from 1880 through the 1882–1883 season, and during this period presented a variety of
                    types of shows.
            A performance long remembered at the new Park was that of Sarah Bernhardt in February, 1881. She
                    arrived in a special car which had been sent to 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, for her to prevent delays. Crowds greeted the actress but she remained aloof;
                    the entire company was entertained at the Bates House. The advance seat sale for her two
                    performances, Camille and Frou Frou, amounted to
                    $5,000 and the total box office receipts were $6,284. Some young society
                    ladies complained that their gentleman friends were unable to secure tickets for love or money. But
                    the critic concluded that the young men probably objected to the moral (or immoral) influence the
                    French actress might have over their lady friends. The principal criticism of many was not the
                    actress herself but the character of Camille, who was looked upon as a common prostitute.54
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     society was still too puritanical to take such a character to its collective heart.
            Plays, minstrels, light opera, Tom Thumb, and Lily Langtry were among the other attractions at the
                    Park in the 1882–1883 season. The first show after the Park became transformed to a
                    variety house, Ida Siddon's Mastodon Female Minstrels, well known in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , included many specialties such as dancing, singing, ventriloquism, marching, and
                    athletic exhibitions, and closed with a somewhat loud and dreary burlesque of Cinderella. The performance was risquée, of the type usually enjoyed by an
                    exclusively male audience.55
            
            Throughout the 1883–1884 season, to February, 1884, the Park was operated under an
                    arrangement by which George Dickson and Charles Gilmore of the Zoöological Garden
                    combined the interests of both theaters, converting the Park into a vaudeville or variety theater.
                    Its storeroom on the first floor was changed into refreshment, bar, and billiard rooms, and a new
                    ten-foot-wide stairway was constructed which led to the theater on the floor above. Prices were
                    lowered to 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., February 28, March 5, 1881.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., May 18, 1883.
               
                     fifteen, twenty-five, and thirty-five cents. Inside the
                    auditorium the orchestra space was cut down, the main aisle widened, and more seats added to
                    increase its capacity to 1,600. Two exits to the gallery were provided, and an iron stairway to the
                    street was erected outside. And wonder of wonders! Four electric lights were installed to illuminate
                    the building, and another was situated at the head of the stairs near the box office. The theater
                    then became part of the "Great Western Circuit" with the season to run five weeks.
                    This circuit included the Academy of Music, 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ; the Apollo Theater, 
                        Evansville
                    ; the Fourth Street Opera House, 
                        St. Louis
                    ; the Lyceum and Criterion theaters, 
                        Chicago
                    ; the Coliseum, 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; the Park Theater, 
                        Detroit
                    ; and the Adelphi Theater, Buffalo.56
            
            On opening night of this short variety season at the Park, the audience experienced an unexpected bit
                    of drama. William La Haire, whose specialty was "ceiling walking," took three
                    steps, a loop of rope gave way, and he fell twenty-five feet to the stage. Excitement reigned until
                    the manager rang down the curtain and announced that no dangerous injuries had been sustained. But
                    La Haire was unconscious and remained so for some time. Later he was removed to his hotel,
                    "where he now lies in a badly jammed condition." He had received a broken left
                    wrist, a broken rib, dislocated knee, multiple bruises, and possible internal injuries. His
                    attendant had warned him of the bad condition of the apparatus, but having no money for repairs, the
                    actor had planned to use it once more and then ask for an advance on salary to get the mechanism
                    fixed. Gilmore and Dickson assumed responsibility for the performer until his recovery.57
            
            After a successful period as a variety theater, the Park succumbed to the roller-skating craze which
                    swept the city in 1884 and was transformed into a skating rink. A double floor, illuminated by
                    electric light, was laid over the stage, parquet, and part of the dress circle. At the opening
                    performance, February 15, a polo game was played between the local club and one from 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Henry D. Beissenherz and his band furnished music for the occasion. The game,
                    witnessed 
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., April 6, May 3, June 2, 1883.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., June 5 and 6, 1883. It was later learned that the gymnast was
                            injured fatally in a similar fall in a 
                                Minneapolis
                             theater. Ibid., March 17, 1884.
               
                     by a large crowd, was a modified form of shinny, which, was then
                    quite popular. A rink had also been constructed at Masonic Hall just across the street, and another
                    was to open soon on North Meridian Street.58
            
            The managers, Gilmore and Dickson, shortly announced that they would remodel the Park, enlarge and
                    improve the present rink, and establish a Dime Museum. Admission to the shows was ten cents, and
                    much was made of this low price in the fall of 1885, as hard times began to affect business. Plays
                    and variety shows were presented and in November, 1886, Augustin Daly's famous melodrama,
                        Under the Gaslight, was performed for ten, twenty, and thirty cents. In 1887
                    two grand operas were included in a season of light opera, the prices again ten, twenty, and thirty
                    cents. Later that season a play, An American Princess, presented Anna Mortland, a
                    local actress, in the role of Lady Dunmore.59
            
            The general lowering of the quality of presentations brought the accompanying problem of lower-class
                    audiences in which objectionable conduct was often witnessed. The management felt compelled to issue
                    a statement which amounted almost to an order or a threat: The public was warned that any patron who
                    did not conform to the rules of good conduct would be "bounced."60
            
            In December, 1886, the Eden Musée was established on the floor below the Dime Museum and
                    opened daily from nine in the morning until eleven at night, for an admission fee of only ten cents.
                    All sorts of novelties were presented, from a display of The History of a Crime in
                    four tableaux to the 
                        California
                     chicken mill which hatched out scores of chickens each day in full view of the
                    spectators. The chickens were then cared for by artificial hens and a motherly old cat, which was
                    not artificial.61
            
            
               
                  58
                        Ibid., February 15 and 16, 1884.
               
                  59
                        Ibid., April 9 and January 28, 1884; December 24, 1883; September 12, 1885.
                            
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, November 7, 1886. 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, February 6 and March 8. 1887. This should not be confused with
                        the Dime Museum on North 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Street opposite the Denison Hotel, which was formally known as the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum and was opened in December, 1883, for a very brief existence. All sorts of
                        oddities were presented for ten cents—dwarf ladies, giant ladies, and warlike Sioux
                        chiefs.
               
                  60
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, October 21, 1885.
               
                  61
                        Ibid., May 26 and June 4, 1887; May 31, 1888. 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, December 27, 1886. 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, January 11, 1887.
            
            
            In 1888 the Park was sold to Dickson and Talbott, who improved and changed it back to a legitimate
                    theater but allowed the Eden Musée to remain downstairs. The box office was located on
                    the street level and more exits installed. An audience of 2,200 crowded in to see a performance of
                        One of the Finest.
               62
            
            The Zoo, or Gilmore's Zoöological Garden, continued to prosper as a variety
                    theater during the 1880's. Early in the decade it was enlarged, the roof raised, and a
                    gallery added. The manager also established as an experiment an elevated garden on the new rear roof
                    of the theater. This was operated as a summer resort and was apparently successful. Free concerts
                    were held there every night and presumably the only charge to patrons was for the refreshments
                    consumed. Although variety shows with specialty acts were usually seen there, on one occasion The Black Crook was presented. The advertisements for the Zoo often stated
                    something of this nature: "Opposite New State House is the only Variety Theater in the
                    City. Don't fail to see the show. It is great." No mention was made of a star, for
                    there was none in the commonly accepted sense. Although other, better theaters in the city often
                    presented variety type programs, there were probably other characteristics of the Zoo to which many
                    people objected. In 1885 Gilmore began construction of a three-story brick building over the Zoo
                    which he planned to call "The Gold Mine." A year later this item appeared:
                    "The Zoo theater has closed indefinitely. 'Tis well."63
            
            A letter to the editor of the News described the Zoo as one customer saw it. The
                    writer stated that he had a son in high school and wished to learn what sort of place that
                    "den of iniquity" was so that he might better protect his son. After paying
                    admission he passed up a long hall filled with men, boys, and lewd women. There was a performance of
                    the usual kind, and intoxicants were freely sold and drunk by those present. Before leaving he heard
                    an announcement of a slugging match to be held later—a violation of law. From the theater
                    proper he entered a room on one side of which was a long bar and on the other a number of curtained
                        
                  
                     62
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, June 29, and October 23, 1888.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., August 4, 1880; March 22 and 23, May 12, June 2, 1883; February 2,
                            1885; March 15, 1886. Evening Minute (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), January 12, 1885.
               
                     alcoves in which men and women were engaged in obscene
                    conversation accompanied by frequent rounds of drinks. Above this was located a so-called reading
                    room which resembled a country bar. In another room he found a small stage flanked by
                    "wine-rooms" in which the stars could meet their friends; members of the audience
                    and waiters were constantly entering and leaving the latter. Adjoining the upper hall he noted a
                    number of private rooms which he did not investigate. The whole atmosphere of the place appeared to
                    him to be one of lewdness, profanity, obscenity, and drunkenness. The proprietor protected the
                    establishment by placing scouts outside to warn him of the approach of the police.64
            
            Manager Gilmore replied to each accusation in this letter. He charged that the writer was carried
                    away by his imagination and had made gross misrepresentations. He even invited the editor of the News to tour the building and prepare his own testimony.65
            
            The following season, in the fall of 1886, the Zoo began a new career under the name of
                    "Criterion," with a new manager who promised to make of it a first-class dramatic
                    theater. No liquor or cigars were to be sold or permitted to be sold on the premises. To implement
                    his promise, the new manager announced that the Home Dramatic Combination would open the season by
                    presenting a sensational drama, Our Railroad Men, at the popular prices, ten,
                    twenty, and thirty cents.66
            
            Other variety theaters operating during the decade were the Sans Souci, somewhere on East 
                        Washington
                     Street, and the Garden Theater, which was closed for improvements in 1880. After being
                    enlarged with the addition of new chairs, private boxes, and a gallery, the Garden was to be
                    reopened as a licensed variety theater and the sale of liquors by waiters henceforth prohibited.67 There was also a theater called the Academy of Music, which had formerly been
                    known as Crone's Garden. In 1881 the Mansur heirs, owners of this building, decided to
                    close it up. The manager, who had been losing money anyway, planned to join the staff of the Zoo.68
            
            
               
                  64
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, April 2, 1886.
               
                  65
                        Ibid., April 5, 1886.
               
                  66
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, November 25, 1886.
               
                  67
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, June 17, 1881; July 10, 1880.
               
                  68
                        Ibid., September 6, 1880; June 11, 1881.
            
            
            The Bijou Theater was advertised as the only safe variety theater in the city and claimed to attract
                    crowds which could scarcely be packed in. Its programs presented stars from 
                        Paris
                    , trained pigeons, and a very funny comedy, Slattery's Boarding
                        House. The Germania Theater, another variety theater, gave Sunday performances at which
                    liquor was freely sold; it also employed a full brass band which played at intervals. There was,
                    finally, the Capital Theater with its wine-room attachment, which was reported closed in 1884.69
            
            Another place of amusement which was probably a combination theater and museum was the Casino Circus
                    and Museum which opened in January, 1887, at 12–16 North 
                        Mississippi
                     Street (Senate Avenue). Admission was ten cents and the opening performance included
                    comedians, a two-tongued girl, a girl cut in half, an electric girl, aerial acrobats, a
                    horse-trainer, a bird-trainer, scenes from the Spanish Inquisition, and the death scene of General
                    Grant in wax. Its thousand seats were all taken and the audience overflowed on the sidewalk. The
                    owners had planned a forty-foot circus ring, a museum, and a menagerie besides the auditorium, but
                    the circus ring and menagerie failed to materialize. Later presentations included a fire-eater, a
                    wire-walker, and Howard's Old 
                        Kentucky
                     Home Minstrels.70
            
            Numerous amateur dramatic clubs appeared from time to time during the 1880's, but all were
                    short-lived. The old 
                        Indianapolis
                     Dramatic Society had suspended operations in 1878 when Austin H. Brown left it to
                    organize one for the Scottish Rite. This latter group gave regular entertainments and eventually
                    developed a fine stage with excellent equipment, more magnificent and costly than might be found in
                    many large theaters.71 A colored dramatic club headed by a Major Gardner
                    functioned in 1884, and there was also a club known as the Aguilar Society.72 In
                    1882 a new dramatic club entitled the "Clio" was organized. Its first performance
                    was a play entitled Long Strike, given for the benefit of St. Vincent's
                    Hospital. A later presentation for their own benefit was Eileen Oge, produced at
                    the Grand in April, 1883. 
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., March 8, 1882; May 29, 1883; May 20, 1884.
                  
                     70
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, January 16, 25, 30, and February 13, 1887.
                  
                     71 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 471–472; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, June 16, 1880, and January 21, 1884.
                  
                     72
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 11, 1884; January 8, 1880.
               
                     Persons who had roles in the play were Anna Mortland, Stella
                    Rees, Maggie McGlenn, Dudie Maguire, and the Messrs. Keeough, Sullivan, Kelleher, and Quigley.73
            
            Since excellent stage performances could be witnessed regularly by the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , there was small incentive for much activity of the local amateur dramatic societies.
                    Much more interest in the professional stage was evident. Travelling theatrical managers reported
                    that they found more stage-struck girls in 
                        Indianapolis
                     than in any other city of similar size in the country. From one to a dozen applications
                    for positions were received by each company appearing there. The girls were attracted by the glamor
                    of the stage, unaware of its temptations and hard life.74
            
            What proportion of those who sought fame and fortune on the stage actually found it cannot be
                    determined. Yet several were reported to be under contract to various companies. Of this number some
                    came from families of good social background. This in itself is worthy of note in view of the early
                    attitude toward the theater. By the 1890's, one who had dramatic talent could become a
                    professional actress without losing social standing. An outstanding example was Kate Tousey, wife of
                    Austin W. Morris, who was reported under contract to the Willow Copse Company in 1885. Both husband
                    and wife were also active in local dramatics. Kate Fletcher, sister of Mrs. Thomas B. Glessing,
                    played in the supporting cast with such actors as Joseph Jefferson, Lawrence Barrett, and Margaret
                    Mather. Lida Hood Talbott had an important role in a new play, On the Yellowstone,
                    which was produced in 
                        New York
                     in 1884. Maude Stuart Grubbs played the juvenile lead to Frederick de Bellville in Paquita in 
                        San Francisco
                     in 1885. Dudie and Nellie Maguire were connected with the Grau Opera Company.75 George W. June was manager of The Black Crook when it
                    played for three nights at English's in 1883; he was later business manager of the Folly
                    Company, which failed.76
            
            
               
                  73
                        Ibid., December 7, 1882; January 1, 1883.
               
                  74
                        Ibid., March 19 and April 4, 1883; March 20, 1886.
               
                  75
                        Ibid., October 26, 1883; February 7, 1884; October 14, November 18, and
                        December 3, 1885. Programs of English's Opera House, 1881–1882, p. 6,
                        English Collection. Interview with Anna Hasselman.
               
                  76 Programs of English's Opera House, 1882–1883, p.
                        217, English Collection; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, October 14, 1885.
            
            
            From time to time the local papers printed items about other former residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     who achieved professional standing on the stage in the 1880's. F. L. Bixby and
                    Alvah S. Lipman were with the Willow Copse Company for a time, and Lipman also travelled with Robson
                    and Crane, as did Mattie Ferguson. Stella Reese, who acquired a reputation as Juliet, was associated
                    with the Matlock Company. Flora Mae Henry played in the Moral Crime cast, while
                    Anna Mortland, Carrie Gage, Prieman Johnson, and Mr. and Mrs. Al Bailey all joined Riley's
                    Dramatic Company. W. O. Wheeler was acting manager of Tony Pastor's Theater in 
                        New York
                    , where Hilda Thomas was employed, and Laura Burt appeared at Koster and Beal's
                    in that city. D. H. Wheeler was a member of the Capital Prize company; Will Todd
                    played for the Arne Walker Company; Mary and Lulu Nichols and Ida Howells appeared at the Moulton
                    Opera; and Marian Fleming (Mamie Huff) was associated with George Knight's Company. Frank
                    N. Scott organized the Hub Comedy Company in 
                        Boston
                     and went on the road with You and I.
               77 Clara
                    Hiatt of 
                        Irvington
                     made her debut in Josh Whitcomb, then appeared in Pleasure Party and All the Rage in 
                        Chicago
                    . F. G. White organized a company which he took on the road in 1880. May Henry, who
                    might be the same person as Flora Mae Henry, replaced Genevieve Morris of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the Robson and Crane Company.78 James E. Voorhees, son of Daniel
                    W. Voorhees, became somewhat deranged over the stage and was taken to a 
                        New York
                     hospital in 1883. He had upset his company during a performance of Hamlet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a few years earlier by acting his role in a completely unprecedented manner.79
            
            Two members of the old Metropolitan Stock Company still lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during this decade. Sarah More, who was known professionally as Mrs. H. More, once
                    played with Forrest and Barrett and had appeared with John Wilkes Booth in Money
                    shortly before Lincoln's assassination. Sometime after that she took up residence in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mrs. 
                  
                     77
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, October 14, November 4, 1885; Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 471.
                  
                     78
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, June 25 and August 11, 1880; September 20, 1882.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., October 13, 1883.
               
                     Charles Coleman Pope continued for many years to give programs
                    of dramatic readings. She was a sister of Daniel Macauley, former manager of the Academy of Music
                    and later of the Metropolitan or Park Theater, and of Barney McAuley, manager of the McAuley Theater
                    in 
                        Louisville
                    .80
            
            Although this list is not exhaustive, it does show to some extent the interest and degree of success
                    achieved on the stage by local persons. Variety theaters still encountered strong objection, but
                    opposition to the legitimate theater had largely disappeared by the close of the 1880's.
                    Such disapproval as was voiced by the clergy usually singled out a particular play or actress, such
                    as Sarah Bernhardt in Camille. By 1890 the theater as an institution had arrived,
                    socially and culturally, and dramatic art was well along the way toward designation as a fine art in 
                        Indianapolis
                     cultural circles.
            
               
                  80 Anna Nicholas, The Story of Crown Hill (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1928), 263; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, March 30, 1886.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Jacob W. Bartmess Civil War Letters
            
                    Contributed by Nova M. Mertens
                
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            Jacob W. Bartmess was one of approximately 200,000 Hoosiers who served in the Union forces during the
                    Civil War. When the war commenced he and his family were living at or near New Corydon, in
                    northeastern Jay County, near the 
                        Ohio
                     line. His letters indicate that prior to the war he had apparently combined farming
                    with blacksmithing, while there are sufficient references in them to debts, the destitute
                    circumstances of his family, and the disposition of his army pay to indicate that his family had
                    apparently found it difficult to make "ends meet" even before Bartmess volunteered
                    for the conflict. The absence of the husband and father during nearly three years of war naturally
                    added much to the hardships of the family at home, which included his wife Amanda, a son Elliott,
                    and a daughter Elista.
            The letters which Bartmess wrote home do not reflect any enthusiasm for military service. In fact,
                    some of them strongly reflect his lack thereof, as well as the difficulties and unhappiness which he
                    endured. Moreover, he did not enter the war until the fall of 1862—about a year and a
                    half after it had begun—and then as a volunteer to be ahead of the draft.1 But such was not unique, even in the Civil War.
            Bartmess regarded war as a horrible ordeal and the army as a corrupt place where religious men were
                    very little noticed. But love of country, devotion to his family, and faith in God sustained him
                    despite some wavering and many doubts. Perhaps these letters are principally significant for their
                    forthright comments from a common soldier regarding war, politics, religion, loneliness, and related
                    items. In addition, there is much in them concerning the problems which his family faced on the home
                    front and the impact of the war on family relations.
            
               
                  1 Jacob W. Bartmess to Amanda Bartmess, Camp Graham, 
                            Tennessee
                        , August 11,1864.
            
            
            The author of these letters became a member of Company C, Eighth Cavalry, Thirty Ninth Regiment, on
                    October 12, 1862, and was mustered out of service on July 20, 1865.2 When the
                    correspondence begins Bartmess was en route to Camp Carrington, near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Next he was at Camp Morton, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and thence to Camp Rosecrans, about seven miles south of 
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , arriving during the month of December. Within less than three months from his
                    induction he participated in the Battle of Murfreesboro or Stone River which occurred December 31,
                    1862-January 2, 1863. In this battle his regiment suffered heavy losses and Bartmess became a
                    Confederate captive.
            After being taken farther south he was sent to a parole camp near 
                        Annapolis
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , and then later exchanged. Following his exchange he was home for a brief visit and on
                    this trip he happened to be at 
                        Indianapolis
                     when Union soldiers broke up a meeting addressed by Thomas A. Hendricks and other
                    Democrats. Bartmess described this affair in his letter of May 21, 1863, in which he called
                    "Tom'. Hendrix a rank butternut."
            Returning to the front he spent most of the remainder of that year in southeastern 
                        Tennessee
                    . The June issue of the Indiana Magazine of History will conclude the
                    publication of his letters, covering the years 1864 and 1865. An attempt has been made to reproduce
                    the spelling, punctuation, and the like of the original correspondence, but at times the actual
                    intent of the author was uncertain. Only a few of the letters have not been used, while the
                    omissions for those published have been indicated. The omitted portions of the correspondence deal
                    principally with comments about religion, oft-repeated affirmations of love to his wife and
                    children, letters or items to the children, and routine or repetitious items. These letters were
                    made available for publication by Mrs. Nova M. Mertens, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to whom our appreciation is hereby expressed.3
            
            
               
                  2
                        Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1865–1869), V (1866), 229.
               
                  3 According to family tradition, Bartmess was a circuit rider before the
                        war and continued his work in the ministry after he returned from the army. Of his five
                        children, Elliott, Elista, Sherman, Zora, and Lawrence, only Sherman is still living. Now 89, he
                        resides in Shreveport, 
                            Louisiana
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [Camp Joe Reynolds, Ind.] 
                           
                                    Oct. 29th '62
                                
                         My dear Companion—
                        I am again in camp. I got here day before yesterday evening, and on the account of
                                    having a good orderly, there was nothing said about us going home. So all right. I
                                    have been bothered from sleeping considerably by the tooth ache. I Stood guard last
                                    night and did not get to sleep more than fifteen minutes, today is a beautiful warm
                                    day Well Amanda there is every thing going on here at the same time play cards,
                                    pitching horse Shoes, Swearing of the most blassphemous nature, there is a great
                                    many in the guard house two of them robed a man in the guard house, and they took a
                                    couple of flour barrels and cut holes in the bottom big enough to Stick their heads
                                    through and then put them on them bottom upwards and marched them, with a guard at
                                    their side, around the camp all day yesterday and till midnight last night, and
                                    commenced again this morning. The talk is that they will be turned over to the civil
                                    authorities and then the[y] will be about ceartain to go to the Pen.
                        they are moving our camp over the canal a Short distance. We will be apt to move from
                                    here before you could send me a letter, but I will keep on writing and let you know
                                    when and where to write Now more at present, but to remain yours forever.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                        to his dearest—Amanda
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Nov. 13th 62.
                                
                        Dearest—
                        We got to camp yesterday, they have said nothing yet and I suppose they will not. We
                                    met our Leut. Col. Jones in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     day before yesterday, he told us that he would get us ready and take us
                                    to the Reg. yesterday, but he afterwards got news that the railroad was out of
                                    repair and that it would not be fixed for a few days and so we did not go. but he he
                                    Said that we would go the last of this week or the first of next.
                        We are now in camp Carrington we have tollerable good barrix there, are flores and
                                    Stoves in them but Still it is not like being in a good house.
                        I have the tooth ache Some again.
                        As we came down on the cars three miles this side of 
                                        Muncie
                                    
                                     we saw where a train of cars had run over a cow
                                    and run off the track the night before, there lay the locomotive on its Side all
                                    twisted and torn and two or three of the other cars in the same fix. I expect it
                                    will be no use to write to me untill you get another letter from me.
                        I Saw Eli Houser yesterday he said he had sent a letter home a day or two ago. he is
                                    with Amos in the 63d reg. I think of nothing more to write
                        
                                    Yours Forever 
                                    J. W Bartmess
                                
                         to his Wife
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                    Nov 18th. '62
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        Here I am Pent up in this camp O. how Tired I get. Well I hope and Pray that this
                                    trouble may soon end. and all of us go home to our friends.
                        We were expecting to Start this morning to the Reg. but It turnes out to be next
                                    week. Well it is not strange for so it has been from the first. So we do not know
                                    when we will start.
                        I was detailed for guard for today.
                        I do not know whether I told you in my other letter or not that last Saturday I was
                                    over to camp Morton and Seen all of the boys, and now they are all exchanged, and
                                    will start to the war in a few days. Well Amanda I now begin to realize that we are
                                    husband and wife how Sorry I am for the many Short words I have given you and for
                                    them all I most hertily ask forgiveness of you. I want hereafter to use you as a
                                    Wife Well Amanda Write to me as often as you can I think of nothing more to write
                                    now but remain yours in the deepest affection forever.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his Wife
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Nov. 21 '62.
                           
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                
                        Well, my own dear Wife—
                        again I write to you. Not having much to write this time Still I thought it would be
                                    a pleasure to you to hear from me as often as possible I am well and  hearty. I stood guard last tuesday and tuesday night
                                    and it rained all night and made it verey disagreeable Yesterday I was over in camp
                                    Morton and seen the boys again. W. Shane had Started for home the night before.
                                    Capt. Winters had gone home to bring those boys to camp that had Stayed at home. D.
                                    Armantront and H. Landers is Sick but not in the hospitle. Dan is like he was when
                                    he was at home only a great deel worse, the Dr. says his lungs is effected D.
                                    Arnold, will be apt to get a discharge, being ruptured, the boys have received their
                                    money and will Start for Dixie in a few days. I seen our recruiting officer Capt
                                    Herring, day before yesterday, and he said that he was a going to take us to the Reg. the first of next week.
                        The mumps and measles are in this camp.
                        Well Amanda I think of nothing else to write. I remain yours as ever in the deepest
                                    affection. Write as often as you can
                        Untill I write to you to Direct differently, direct to J. W. Bartmess Camp Carrington
                                    Ind. A recruit for the 39th REG. IND. VOL.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to Amanda, his Wife.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        Nov. 26th. '62.
                                    
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                
                        Dearest—
                        I have just received your letter and read it with extreem delight. I am glad that you
                                    are as well as you are and hope and pray that the other may come out all right. I
                                    sent that with Harrisson that you wanted have you made use of it. I am glad that the
                                    children are so well, keep them from exposure as much as possible, tell Elliott that
                                    I will come home as soon as I can. We expect marching orders every hour. Well Amanda
                                    I most freely forgive and forget all that is past.
                        You asked about J. Butcher and A. Honser I have not heard from them for some time and
                                    do not know that either of them was hurt. It Snowed here last night and is pretty
                                    cold today. A couple of Groves boys is here in camp, there is from 30 to 40 in the
                                    guard house here all the time for breaking guard and other things I got a pass to go
                                    out of camp yesterday and Sold it for 25 cents I heard yesterday that Cora Willson
                                    died at home lately.
                        
                        We have plenty to eat here and a very good cook, last sunday I was out to town to
                                    meeting at the U B. Church and heard a very good Sermon then in the afte[r]noon
                                    there was a man preached in camp. While I am writing there is fiddling, card
                                    playing, Swearing and all kinds of wickedness going on all around me but it has no
                                    influence over me Why, I am perfectly disgusted at it.
                        Well Amanda I think of nothing else to write at present.
                        
                                    I am Well, and still remain as ever your husband
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                        to his own dear Wife.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            the following is a list of what we get and the prices. 
                  
                      
                     cts
                  
                  
                     Drees Coat.
                     $6.71.
                  
                  
                     Over "
                     7.20.
                  
                  
                     pants
                     3.03
                  
                  
                     Shirts
                     88
                  
                  
                     drawers
                     50
                  
                  
                     Socks
                     26
                  
                  
                     blanket
                     2.60
                  
                  
                     knap sacks
                     2.75
                  
                  
                     Canteen
                     48
                  
                  
                     havresack
                     48
                  
                  
                     Rubber blanket
                     1.25.
                  
                  
                     hat
                     1.55.
                  
                  
                     trimings on hat
                     30.
                  
                  
                     
                     ——
                  
                  
                     total
                     27.99
                  
                  
                     but we get no trimings you know
                  
               
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Nov. 29th. [?] '62.
                                
                        Well my dear little boy. papy is away far from home, here in this camp with a lot of
                                    houses in it made of boards and lots of people in them. Some has big guns to Shoot
                                    Secessionists with and some has great big knives that they call swords to cut
                                    secessionists heads off with, well Elliott you think that papy Stays So long this
                                    time, well papy thinks so too. Elliott, you must be a good boy and do as mother
                                    tells you and papy will come home as soon as he can.
                        Dear Amanda a word to you I am well and hearty and hope you may be enjoying the same
                                    Our recruiting officer  says that we are certain
                                    to Start to the Reg. next mondey if not before.
                        Say they are to Start to dixie today Old man Armantrott was in camp morton for two or
                                    three days they said that he tried to get into this camp to see me but could not.
                                    there is considerable Snow her now.
                        There are about 2500. Soldiers here over half cvalry.
                        
                                    I think of nothing more to write at present but remain yours forever
                                    J. W. Bartmess Amanda Bartmess
                                
                         forgive my Scribbling
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Rosencrans.
                           
                                    Sunday Dec. 7th. '62.
                                
                        Dear Amanda—.
                        I am at last at the Regiment which is about 7 miles south east from 
                                        Nashville
                                    .
                        We started from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     last thursday evening at nine O clock, and got to 
                                        Louisville
                                     next morning at 4 O clock, and stayed there till the next morning 8 O
                                    clock, at which time we started for 
                                        Nashville
                                     Tenn, and arrived the evening of the same day at about 8 o clock Stayed
                                    all night in the State house—we got here to camp about noon today the
                                    health of the troops is very good
                        Adam Meason is some what unwell,
                        we are in the 6 brigade in Sills division.
                        there is Skirmishing going on here every day. we are on the way to Murfreesborough
                                    there may be a general engagement Soon.
                        Amanda. I heard when I was at home about the kardnes of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     but I had no idea of it till I Saw for my self it is the hardest
                                    country I every saw nothing but hills and rocks and scrubby trees and what little
                                    ground there is, looks just like tan bark ground up Well Amanda—when you
                                    write to me Direct to J.W.B.—Co. C 39 Reg. Ind. Vol.
                        
                                    Remember that I am and ever will be your affectionate Husband
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his Wife
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        Dec. 23 ('62.
                                    
                                    Amanda Bartmess
                                    
                              Camp near 
                                        Nashville
                                 Tenn.
                           
                                
                        Amanda—my own dear wife.—.
                        I have been for the last few days and am at the present quite grunty. my Stomache is
                                    out of fix. I went to the doctor this morning and got a dose of oil; may be the oil
                                    will Settle it. The brigade went out on drill this morning but I did not go along.
                        I received your letter of the 11th. and 12th. yesterday evening, which gave me much
                                    Satisfaction. I received a letter from you about one week ago stating that you were
                                    sick., and O, how anxious every evening when the mail came, since that was I to get
                                    get a letter from you to hear how you was getting. I am sorry that you was sick but
                                    am glad of the change and hope you may get as well and stout as you ever have been.
                                    You Said that Elliott was very Mischevious. Tell him that papy says he must not be
                                    too bad and you may be sure that I would like to be there and take lista on my lap
                                    and talk to her and hear her talk Well my prayer is that the time may soon come.
                        You say you miss me when you go to bed Ah, dear Wife. When meal time comes, and I sit
                                    down on the ground, useing the ground for a table, and having on the table some hard
                                    crackers some old bacon, a coffee pot full of coffee, which pot is so black and hard
                                    looking that you would scarcely use it for a Slop pot at home, then pour my coffee
                                    into an old tin cup which would be a disgrace to the kitchen at home then I miss
                                    you. When I lie down on the ground at night with my overcoat for a pillow and my
                                    blanket for a cover heareing oath after oath till at last nature yealds and my eyes
                                    close in Sleep. O then I miss When I go about camp hearing the continual din of
                                    camp, there I miss you. where er'e I go in whatever company I am. I miss my
                                    dearest one—my wife.—
                        And my Children which I once thought troublesome, would now be a great delight to me
                                    even when they are most mischevious. I most earnestly pray that these stat of things
                                    will not last long.
                        As to what you can Send me. I can say I am out of money but I expect I can do without
                                    better here than you can there, and I do not expect you have it to spare, but if you
                                    should  have it to Spare you may send me a dollar
                                    or two. but do not send it unless you can spare it. If you can send me a couple
                                    pairs of socks it would be a help to me for these government socks are worth
                                    nothing. I would like if you would send me some yarn to darn socks with. S Hanly has
                                    a needle so that if I had the yarn I could darn my socks and make them last longer.
                        I would love to have yours and the childrens pictures taken in a double case and sent
                                    to me yours on one side and the childrens on the other, but it will cost too much,
                                    do just as you like about that. I am sorry to hear that the boys do not get along
                                    any better than they do. for I would like to have Harrison with me then I believe I
                                    would get along better. Tell the boys to write to me as often as they can. though I
                                    have not wrote to them, the letters that I send to you will do for the whole family.
                                    I believe I will close this letter. I think I have averaged two letters a week I
                                    wish you may do as well we have had nice dry wether here ever since I have been here
                                    Amanda I wish I could tell you how deep my affection is for you but I can not so
                                    nomore at this time.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his loving Wife.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Anapolis 
                                    Maryland
                                
                              
                           
                                    [no date]
                                
                        Dearest One—.
                        it has been a long time since I had a chance to write to you. And I expect you have
                                    been very uneasy about me expecting I was killed, and tis a wonder I was not. I
                                    commenced to write a Christmas but did not get the letter finised. the next day we
                                    started to attack Murfreesboro it was a continnal Skirmish all the way which was
                                    about 30 miles. On the next Tuesday evening we were put on picket within 200 yards
                                    of of the rebels the rebels lay in heavy line of battle all night, while we had no
                                    line of battle at all. next morning just as soon as it was light enough to see the
                                    rebels made a charge on us our brigade had all their guns Stacked and not loaded So
                                    the rebels had them all cut up befor they got they guns, here come the rebels on us
                                    pickets ten regiments Strong So the only thing that we could do was to surrender or
                                    run. So we started and done what shooting we could as we went, and the bulletts
                                    whizing around us all the way I got about three miles and was taken prisoner  by the cavalry, was taken back to Murfreesboro
                                    and paroled next morning Started on the cars for Vicksburge. and got very near to
                                    Mobile when we was ordered to 
                                        Richmond
                                     Va. Well we finaly got to 
                                        Richmond
                                    , and was kept there in prison ten days on half rations, then we started
                                    for city point and got there in about three hours which is on James river there we
                                    got on uncle Sams steam boat, we had been in the hands of the rebels just four
                                    weeks, we then came by Fortress monroe to this place, we are here in a parole camp
                                    near Anapolis 
                                        Maryland
                                    . I am well as common except a bad cold I do not know when we will get
                                    away from here I want you to write to me as soon as you get this Direct to Parole
                                    Camp Anapolis 
                                        Maryland
                                     15th Company 4th Battalion I do not know when I can write again for I
                                    have no paper and no money to get it with and all the boys are in about the same
                                    fix.
                        there is a great deal that I could writ but I have not room. I remain as ever without
                                    wavering your Afectionate Husband
                        
                                    J. W Bartmess
                                
                        to his (Wife)
                        I forgot to say that there was about 40 of Company C taken, we had scarcely any
                                    thing to eat while we were with the rebels. Since we left murfreesboro we have
                                    traveled 1824 miles, and that in old hog cars the flore covered with manure some
                                    cars with no cover and open sides we would ride in them all night and nearly freeze
                                    for the rebels took nearly all our blankets I had neither blanket or overcoate well
                                    I can write nomore I hope I will get to come home an tell you all about it
                                J.W.B.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 16th 1863.
                                
                        Dear Companion—
                        We have different kinds of news about being exchanged Some Say that we are exchanged
                                    now. and some Say that we will not be exchanged till the 10th of June, So I cannot
                                    tell any thing ceartain about it in this letter. I do not know whether we will be
                                    paid off here or not. Some say that all the 39 are to be here in camp tomorrow, what
                                    for we do not know. Some say that we are to go to camp camp chase in a few days and
                                    some say we are not, So we know nothing ceartain yet. only that we are here. There
                                    were Some cavalry went out to a little Secesh town, and had a little fight with
                                    three Secesh in a house—one of the secesh was Shot near the mouth which
                                         is likely to kill him all three of them were
                                    brought to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . …
                        the boys are all well and in god heart I bought a Package and got some Jewelry which
                                    I send to you for the Children. No more at present but remain as ever your
                        
                                    affectionate Husband 
                                    J W Bartmess
                                
                         J W. Bartmess Direct your letters to camp Carrington Indiana Company
                                H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 4th/'63.
                                
                        I received your letter this morning, and it filled me with sorrow mingled with
                                    surprise. I am sorrow because of your destitute condition For you to be destitute of
                                    the necisaries of life and nearly as bad off for friends and me to be bound by a law
                                    whose penalty is death to be where I cannot help you gives me untold sorrow.
                        The prospect is good to be paid off this week
                        Well Amanda do the best you can. for you and the Children, seeing they have scarcely
                                    any cloths keep them from exposeure as much as you can. and my hopes and prayers are
                                    that your circumstances will be better soon.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his Amanda.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May the 9th. '63.
                                
                        My own dear Wife—.
                        I write to you today because I feared that you would think hard of me for not
                                    writing. I would have written sooner but we have expected our money every day for a
                                    week past, and I did not want to write untill we were paid but as we have not got
                                    our money yet I thought I would write this morning. I have nothing of importance to
                                    write. I saw D. Skinner yesterday he says that there is no chance for a deal detail
                                    that he knows of. My health has been, since I left home last, with the exception of
                                    the last two days, nearly as good as it ever was. I do not feell quite as well now.
                                    I have the diarrhoea some. I received your letter yesterday I am sorry to hear that
                                    Elliott, was sick. Amanda  take good care of him.
                                    which of course you will. O Amanda I am so discontented here. I see nothing but
                                    foolishness and drunkenness, and hear nothing but swearing. If we are not exchanged
                                    soon I will spend the time untill I am exchangeg at home furlough or no furlough.
                        I Send you a couple of rings which I want you to weare as from your husband Captain
                                    Crowell is exchanged and was here to see us.
                        How glad I would be to have this war to end so that we as a little family could spend
                                    happier days hereafter than we have heretofore May the great God. grant us the
                                    blessing soon.
                        
                                    Your affectionate. Husband
                                     J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his Amanda.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 13th./'63. 
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        My health is reasonable at present. I have nothing new to write to you more than that
                                    we were paid today up to the first of March. I received $.58,90. and I
                                    Send you $.40,00. by old man Crowell. which he will leave at B.W.
                                    Hawkins, in 
                                        Portland
                                     you can go and get it whenever you wish. I owed $.2.00.
                                    dollar. So I keep $17.00. dollars If I find I can get along without that
                                    much I will send you more.
                        Now Amanda remember the wants of yourself and children first, and then the debts.
                        I do not know how long we will stay here, may be till next week only, and may be two
                                    weeks.
                        I have nothing more to write at this time but as ever remain
                        
                                    Your Affectionate One
                                     J. W. Bartmess
                                
                        to his Wife.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 21st. '63. 
                                
                        Dearest One—Amanda—.
                        I had intended to write yesterday, so that you would get this letter yesterday. But
                                    we were called out night before last, to the arsnel in town, to guard it.
                        The butternuts had a great convention in the state house yard yesterday. And the
                                    military authorities were affraid that they would make an attempt to get the arms
                                    out of the arsnel. So we stayed in the arsnel untill this morning. Yesterday while
                                         Tom'. Hendrix a rank butternut was
                                    making his great effort, in his speach. some one hurahed for Jef Davis Six or eight
                                    Soldiers made a charge to get him but failed, they then made a charge on the
                                    speaker, and he jumped off the stand and run for life, his friends kept between him
                                    and the soldiers so that they did not get him. they croweded so thick after him that
                                    they tore the board fence down, but that was the last of Tom Hendrix. then the
                                    Butternut meeting turned to a Union meeting. Since I commenced writing this letter I
                                    received a letter from you dated the 17th. inst and am sorry to hear that the
                                    smallpox is in the neighborhood. O. how anxious I will be to know how you get along
                                    now till it is over.
                        There is some talk that we will leave for the Reg. next monday but
                                    I do not know how it will be.
                        My health is still good, and I am not a little glad of it either. Hoping that you
                                    will write often.
                        
                                    I am still yours with the tenderest regard
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his dear wife.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 27th. '63.
                                
                        Dear wife—
                        I am glad to tell you that I got through to camp safe. We got to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     about six o'clock that evening. We came out to camp and the
                                    guards let us pass in without any trouble. We found all the boys well.
                        I am as well as ever.
                        There is stronger talk now than ever that we will stay here a while, but still it is
                                    not ceartain. I found all my things that I left in Earnest's care, all
                                    safe.
                        The report that Vixburge was taken turns out to be untrue. There is no special news
                                    this morning Valandingham. in sted of being sentenced to close confinement in fort
                                    waren has been sent through the lines into the rebels hands.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                        to his dear little family Amanda. Elliott. Elista.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near Murfreesboro
                           
                                    June 5th 1863.
                                
                        Dearest one—Amanda—.
                        We started from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     day before yesterday evening about sundown, and got to 
                                        Louisville
                                     about 1. O,clock at night. We started from there at eight O,clock next
                                    morning for 
                                        Nashville
                                    , and arrived about one houre by sun.
                        We came out to the reg't today.
                        We found the boys well, and enjoying soldiering with horses in high glee, they are
                                    just now starting out on drill. Our camp is not far from where the rebels made the
                                    charge on us the morning that we were taken prisoner.
                        Amanda—such a time as we had on leaving 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     you never saw. at least half were drunk, they had several fights. and
                                    quite a number came away with bruised faces and black eyes.
                        Well Amanda—one thing I must say for A. Mason that he is as good a union
                                    man now as there is in the reg't he says let the negros be freed if that
                                    will save the union anyhow he despises this thing of buying and selling human flesh,
                                    he sends his respects to Harrison. There is prospect of another fight. But our men
                                    are so fortified that the rebels have not men enough to take the place. Apples and
                                    peaches are going to be plenty down here, and I assure you that we will have our
                                    share. …
                        
                                    Yours in the deepest affection.
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                        to his Wife—. Amanda.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Drake 
                               Near Murfreesboro Ten.
                           
                                    Sunday—June 7th. 1863.
                                
                        My kind affectionate Wife—.
                        Amanda let me assure you that this place bears the marks of battle. Where once stood
                                    the nice dwelling of the rich planter and the negro huts, and the good fencing which
                                    enclosed the large rich farm and separated it into fields, now is a vast ruin, there
                                    are no houses, no negro huts, no fencing. One vast desolation exists for many miles
                                    around. The trees are wonderfly marked with minie-balls. Some of them from the  thickness of my body down are entirely cout down
                                    with canon balls. But what is more: the many little boards which stick in the ground
                                    in regular rotation, marking the spot where lies the boddies of of hundreds of our
                                    brave men. who fell a sacrifice on their countries, altar on stoneriver's
                                    boody field. My thoughts ask me where are the many little orphans calling and crying
                                    for pappy, while his body is mouldering in this vast grave yard. And where is that
                                    widowed, and heartbroken wife, who when the question is forced on her mind where is
                                    my husband? and the answer comes that he fell and was hurried by careless hands on
                                    stonerivers battle field. Writhes in desperate and indescribable anguish. O. who
                                    will answer for the sin of this most dreadful and calamitous war. but why should I
                                    continue thus. God bless the right.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess. 
                                
                        to his kind and loving Wife—Amanda.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Drake.
                              Near Murfreesboro Ten
                           
                                    June 14th/63
                                
                        Dearest one—
                        I am seated in my tent beside the table which Adam and I put up to serve us both as a
                                    writing desk and an eating table. It gives me pleasure to write to you and let you
                                    know that I still enjoy good health.
                        I have just drawn my horse this forenoon. I have just come from preaching, we have
                                    had preaching in the regiment both Sundays that I have been here. …
                        Monday morning 15th.
                        There were a couple spies hung at 
                                        Franklin
                                     about 30 miles north west of this place, they were going around with a
                                    forged pass from Gen. Rosecrans and in officers uniforms, but they were caught in
                                    their deception, and strung up.
                        There are to be one man and two women hung next friday at Murfreesboro. the women are
                                    spies, and the man a murderer he cut a man's tongue out and ears off. and
                                    killed him because he would not tell where his money was. …
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his kind Wife.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 11th. 63.
                           
                                    
                              Camp at Winchester Ten.
                              
                           
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        We are now in camp at Winchester, a little town about four miles in the rear of the
                                    camp that I wrote from the other time. It has been 17 days since we left
                                    Murfreesboro It has been quite a hard trip. Our supply train just came up to us
                                    yesterday evening the first that we have seen of it for nearly two weeks, nearly all
                                    that time we have had to live off the country We would go out foreageing as we call
                                    it. and where ever we could find any corn we would take it for our horses, and then
                                    go in the smokehouses and take hams and shoulders or side meat or any thing that
                                    could be found to eat. chickens, geese, turkeys, hogs, and cattle were taken very
                                    freely. We had to get corn meal werever we could for bread. I got three plugs of
                                    tobacco at Tullahoma each about one foot long, which did me very good service. I
                                    traided some of it to the 101st 
                                            Ohio
                                         reg't. for crackers and in this way kept in something
                                    to eat.
                        There are a great many black berrys here and the largest ones you ever seen. A lot of
                                    us went out yesterday and got all that we wanted to eat. and brought some to camp.
                                    Well Amanda you ought to see us go into oats fields and meadows with our horses. I
                                    tell you, you would see oats and grain suffer, and wheat fields that have the wheat
                                    cut and shocked we go into and carry out the wheat to feed, and make beds to sleep
                                    on. I tell you that the country is perfectly ransacked We have stirring news here
                                    now. but I expect you have heard it all. The boys are in good spirits, thinking that
                                    the war will close this sumer.
                        We have taken quite a number of prisoners, many of them came and gave themselves up
                                    and have taken the oath of allegiance and some of them have enlisted to fight for
                                    the union, they say that there are any amount that would desert the rebel army if
                                    they had a chance.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                        to his Wife Amanda.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Winchester. Tenn.
                           
                                    July 16th/63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        Your kind letter of the 29th of June came to hand two days ago. You spoke of the
                                    frost hurting our wheat some. Amanda that is not as bad as some of the wheat is hurt
                                    here, for we go into the fields that are cut and haul it all to camp and feed it to
                                    the horses. I hope that Morgan has served some of the butternuts so in Ind.
                                    … The news is very encouraging here now. it is to be hoped that the war
                                    will end this summer. The health of the Soldiers here is generaly good except the
                                    diarrhoea, which was caused by having to eat so much fresh meat. There is no end to
                                    blackbaries here, a part of our reg't goes out every day blackberrying. For
                                    the last week the weather has been very pleasant, but two weeks of the time since we
                                    left Murfreesboro. was as wet as I ever saw. I come very near loosing all my postage
                                    stamps.
                        My pens, which were in my pocket book, got so wet that they rusted so as nearly to
                                    spoil them, we have a very pleasant camp, and since we have been here, we have had
                                    very good times except a little short of rations, we have had no duty to do scarcly.
                                    but then we need a little rest. Some of the horses look awful hard, their backs have
                                    been sore so long that great holes are eat in them. …
                        Well Amanda paper is scarce here now and when we do get it we pay 5 cents for three
                                    sheets. Envellops is Still scarcer. I will close by Subscribing myself.
                        
                                    Your Affectionate and unworthy Husband
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                        Amanda Elliott Elista.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Winchester Tenn.
                              
                           
                                    Thursday July 23. '(63.
                                
                        Dear Companion—.
                        You wanted to know about my Socks, and eatables, With a little darning my socks will
                                    last a considerable while yet. We have piety to eat. Our eatables consists in
                                    crackers, bacon, beef, coffee, and sugar, beside this we get by foraging, fresh
                                    pork, chickens, potatoes, apples, and onions. I wish you  could have some of the coffee. I love coffee better
                                    than ever. I could almost drink it for a regular drink. Adam Mason is with me again,
                                    he was at the hospital nursing the wounded. He is one of the best fellows to bunck
                                    with, for if there is any thing to get to eat he will have it.
                        You ought to hear him talk about butternuts at home, no man can hate them worse than
                                    he does.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his Wife
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Winchester Tenn.
                              
                           
                                    July 27th. '63.
                                
                        Dearest one—. Amanda—
                        You spoke of several who wore butternuts at home. I hope that they may all be
                                    drafted. I wrot 
                                        Israel
                                     Macklin a letter, telling him my opinion of those who weare butternuts.
                                    … We were paid off today. I received $.52.00, I owed Capt
                                    Crowell $.3,00. and Wm. 
                                        Richmond
                                     $1.1.50, So that I will send you $.40,00. dollars
                                    which you will use as you you think best, and keep the rest for myself.
                        I wish you would get a dollars worth of postage stamps, and send me a few once in a
                                    while, do not put many in one letter for fear that I will not get the letter.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Tullahoma, 
                                    Tenn
                                
                              
                           
                                    July 31, '63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        You will see by the heading of this letter that we have moved to another place. We
                                    are now in camp some 15 miles from Winchester, toward Murfreesboro right on the 
                                        Nashville
                                     and Chattanooga rail road, in a little town called Tullahoma I expect
                                    that Harrison remembers the place.
                        We was in camp at Winchester, we had a fine time. There was a Soldiers prayre meeting
                                    in town every night, and on Sundays there were two church houses used for meeting.
                                    And there we had no duty to do, here there is a detail of 8. out of our company
                                    every day for vidette duty. Harrison will explain that to you.
                        
                        We turned over our Enfield rifles yesterday, and drew new 
                                        Spencer
                                     rifles, they shoot seven times without reloading.
                        Lest you did not get my last letter, I will say in this letter that we were paid off
                                    a few days ago, I received $52,00. and sent $.40,00 home with
                                    T Bosworth, to be left in the care of B. W. Hawkins at 
                                        Portland
                                    . I also sent you a lock of my hair for having received your's.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                        To his kind loving Wife Amanda.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Tullahoma, Tenn. 
                              
                           
                                    Tuesday August, 11th. ′63.
                                
                        Dear Companion—.
                        I wrote you a a letter yesterday, and after writing received one from you dated the
                                    2n inst, Which I thought best to answer this moring. It is strange how the report
                                    was started that Adam and me was killed, and I do expect that you felt bad when you
                                    heard it, but felt better when you found it was not so. You spoke of Abe writing
                                    home to pap as he did. I glory in Abe's spunk I hope that he will live up
                                    to it and let them know that he hates butternuts and their friends too. I tell you
                                    that there are few soldiers in the field who has not learned to hate butternuts.
                        You next spoke of sending me paper and envellopes in every letter. Amanda that is no
                                    use we have plenty of paper and envelops here, and then what you did send is so
                                    rinkled up that it could scarcely be written on at all. if you could send me a few
                                    stamps once in a while it would suit me verry well.
                        Concerning the blacksmith tools you may sell them the first chance you get. sell them
                                    if you cannot get more than twenty dollars for them, for I expect to follow
                                    something else after I get out of the service.
                        
                                    J. W. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Bellfont. 
                                    Alabama
                                . 
                           
                                    August. 22 1863.
                           
                                
                        Dear Companion—
                        It affords me great pleasure, to write to you again. I expect you have been made
                                    uneasy by not receiving a letter  from me for
                                    some time. I commenced to write you a letter last sunday but before I got it
                                    finished the orders came to march, so I had to lay by my writing, and get ready. We
                                    are now in camp at the above named place, which is about two miles from the Tenn.
                                    river, something near 30 miles below Bridgeport. I do not know how long we will stay
                                    in this camp, but likely a few weeks.
                        I received a letter from 
                                        Israel
                                     Macklin he says that the democrats just wear the butternuts because the
                                    Abolitionists call them butternuts, he says that he never wore any. but if any body
                                    dares to wear one, with a threat to take it off. he says he will wear it and show
                                    them that they cannot take it off.
                        The two dollar bill that I sent you. I brought with me from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , it would not pass here, but it was good there. The citizens, nearly
                                    all left this town before we come in and went across the river.
                        This is a nice camping ground, and Adam and P. S. Bodle. and I have a nice tent up to
                                    sleep in we have plenty to eat. It beats all for peaches here among these mountains
                                    that I ever saw or heard of. they are as large again as any I ever saw before.
                        
                                    Jacob W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his dear familly. Amanda Elliott. Ellista.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              On the March for 
                                    Chattanooga
                                . 
                           
                                    August 31st. '63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—
                        having an opportunity. I thought it best to write you a few lines. We left camp at
                                    Bellfont yesterday, and have just crossed the 
                                        Tennessee
                                     river not far from Stephenson, on a pontoon bridge. We are now in camp
                                    about % of a mile from the river. But I expect we will not stay longer than
                                    tomorrow. Our men crossed the river without any opposition. It is reported that
                                    Bragg has taken all the large guns from chattanooga to 
                                        Atlanta
                                     Geo. Three companys of us came in off of a three days scout day before
                                    yesterday We brought in 27 citizens and soldiers together, they all took the oath of
                                    allegiance, and went home, some of them had been in the  rebel service two years, they deserted, and say that
                                    they believe that the rebel army will go down by desertion if nothing else. We lived
                                    well while we was on the scout. I had several good meals from the citizens, which
                                    cost me nothing. …
                        We have strong hope that the war will soon close.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his— Amanda.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp in the woods
                           
                                    Sep't 7th. '63.
                                
                        Kind Companion—.
                        We are in camp 25 miles south of the 
                                        Tennessee
                                     river and about 30 or 40 miles west of 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . Our reg't was about 22 miles further south at a town called
                                    Trenton Thomas' corps is there. We are in the valey between sand mountain
                                    and lookout mountain in the State of 
                                        Alabama
                                    . We are likely to leave here soon. I think that Rosencrans is trying to
                                    surround Bragg, and if Bragg is yet at chattanooga, he has nearly done it.
                        Deserters continue to come to our lines, they give a sad statement of the condition
                                    of the rebel army. I heard a very intelligent one say that the rebellion must go
                                    down soon, that they positively have scarcely any thing to eat. that the soldiers
                                    are all discouraged and dead in spirits, he says that they will not fight much, he
                                    says that they are sitting around in camp in little groups ploting how to desert, he
                                    says that the officers watch around and arrests all that they think are talking
                                    about such things.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his kind Amanda.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 Tenn. 
                           
                                    Oct. 20th. '63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        It may seam strange that I should head my letter at 
                                        Nashville
                                    . There was a lot of the new recruits and some of the old soldiers,
                                    amounting to about two hundred in all. sent here after horses, and the prospect is
                                    fair to stay here a while, there being no horses here at this time. We arived here
                                         yesterday evening, and have taken up
                                    quarters in the old Zolicoffer house. The talk is that we will have to do guard duty
                                    while we are here. I know that you must have been uneasy for some time past, on
                                    account of not receiving more letters from me. but there has been but few times that
                                    I could send letters for a long time now. and just once in a while that any mail
                                    come to the reg't. Dear Wife I know that such things cause us trouble but
                                    they can not be helped, and it is to be hoped that they will not last long. I have
                                    nothing new to write to you, for nothing has occured since I wrote you last, My
                                    health is very good at this time Our trip down here was very uncomfortable on accout
                                    of it having rained for several days before before we started, and we had 35 miles
                                    to walk before we got to the rail road! it has been quite wet for some time.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his loving wife Amanda
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 Tenn. 
                           
                                    Oct. 25th. '63.
                                
                        Dearest one—.
                        It is sabbath, and we are in this large unfinished brick house, no glass in the
                                    windows, and it is very uncomfortably cold. To be sure we have a stove in the room
                                    but half the time no wood. The consequence is I have a severe cold and feel somewhat
                                    unwell. I have written you one letter allready since we are here, but for fear that
                                    you did not get it, I will again say that we are here for 300 horses and 160
                                    saddles. … the talk is that the reg't is coming here too, I do
                                    not know whether it is so or not. This is a dreadful place. Our cooking is done for
                                    us. at breakfast we get cold boilt beef bread, and coffee that is not fit to drink,
                                    for dinner we get beans bread and coffee for supper we get cold boilt side meat,
                                    bread and coffee, if we have money we can buy milk butter and a great many other
                                    good things.
                        I would like to know how you are getting along for eatables, for I will be satisfied
                                    on this kind of fair, so I know that my little family has plenty. We have to stand
                                    picket here which however we are glad to do in order to get out of this house into
                                    the open air.
                        
                        
                                     J. W. Bartmess
                                
                        to his family Amanda. Elliott. Elista.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 Tenn.
                           
                                    Oct. 28th. '63.
                                
                        Kind companion—.
                        Well here we are pent up in this dirty, lousy house. When we go to get. a meal we
                                    have to go down two pair of stairs, and then stand at the door a half hour or more
                                    before we can crowd in There are so many in here that it takes about all the time
                                    from 4 o'clock in the morning till 9 o.clock at night to get three meals.
                                    It is a hard place to stay. I would rather be with the reg't. then I would
                                    get letters once in a while from home, here I will get none unless they are directed
                                    to this place We are on duty here about every other day, picket guarding a wagon
                                    train into the country after wood or hay, or something of the kind, but still that
                                    is not hard work, we are glad to get out into fresh air. There are many things that
                                    I can tell you when the happy day comes to come home, which I do not wish to write.
                                    I tell you Amanda there are many things transpire here, which utterly confound me.
                                    things which will make any feeling man shudder.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his loving Wife.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at 
                                    Nashville
                                 Tenn. 
                           
                                    
                              Nov. 15th. '63.
                                
                        Kind Wife—.
                        I have taken a team to drive, of six mules, which exempts me from all other duty. We
                                    have drawn four new teams. I would like to know how your money is holding out. I do
                                    not expect that we will get paid this pay day, and if not, we will have to wait two
                                    months, and may be four, longer.
                        There is four months pay coming to us now. I would like to know whether you get all
                                    of my letters. I have averaged nearly two letters a week, since I have been here.
                        We are likely to leave here about next Wednesday, they say  that we are going to Tullahoma. I do not know how that
                                    is. …
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         Amanda.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Stevenson Alabama. 
                           
                                     Dec. 17th. '63.
                                
                        Dear Companion—.
                        I have not had the privilege to write to you for two weeks, and I expect that you are
                                    getting uneasy, but I am glad to tell you that I am well. We left Nasville, last
                                    monday one week ago. and arrived here at steveson yesterday a distance of 113.
                                    miles, a part of it the worst roads that I ever seen, especially crossing the
                                    Cumberland mountains was beyond all description How long we may stay here is more
                                    than I can tell.
                        We were paid off on the way here I received as I thought at the time
                                    $.59,00 but upon examination next morning I had but $.49,00. I
                                    owed $9.00. for a watch that I bought at Winchester last summer, besides
                                    that I owed $.11.00. of borrowed money that I borrowed at 
                                        Nashville
                                     to get something good to eat. and I owed the sutler $.6.00
                                    for tobacco and paper and envellops and ink, &c I am sorry to have to tell
                                    you such a tale, but almost any person that has been fed on crackers and fat bacon a
                                    long time will try to get something better when they can. If you think I done wrong
                                    I want you to forgive me. for I do not intend to owe any more while I am in the
                                    army.
                        after paying my debts I have but twenty dollars left, and no safe way to send any
                                    home, but Oh should you or any of my little ones need any thing before I can send
                                    you any money, how will I feel after spending so much of my money here. Dear Amanda
                                    do not think hard of me, and let me know whether you can get along till next pay day
                                    which will be as soon as the first of March. We have wet and cold weather which
                                    makes it very disagreeable I am bunking now with Calvin Burdy a teamster we have
                                    four blankets to sleep under and our overcoats and oil blankets to sleep on which a
                                    very good bed for a soldier.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess
                                
                         to his family Amanda Elliott. & Elista.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Dallas Tenn. 
                           
                                     Dec. 25th. '63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        This is Christmas and I am seated in one room of an old vacated house, writing you a
                                    letter, it is the quarters of some of the company, this place is on the river 14
                                    miles above 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . The company is here on guard, there is another company further up the
                                    river, and most of the ballance of the reg't is on courier duty along the
                                    river, from here to Bridgeport I got here day before yesterday but had not time to
                                    write till this morning. … You spoke of my folks getting mad at you for
                                    writing to me that Pap tooke the Enquirer. Well let them get mad and let them get
                                    pleased again. It semes as though they wanted to keep it a secret from me. Well that
                                    shows at once that they know it is not the right kind of a paper. I want you to
                                    write to me any, and every thing that you wish to write, and be assured that I will
                                    stand to you till the last. …
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                         to his wife Amanda.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Harrisons Landing 
                           
                                    Dec'. 31. '63.
                                
                        Dear Wife—.
                        This morning is full of the memories of the past, not memories of the bright and
                                    pleasant, but of whistleing bullets, and the wild maniac yell of the rebel hords as
                                    they came down upon us at stoneriver, just one year ago. At about this very hour
                                    (9.'o'c.) one year ago I was surrounded and taken a prisoner by
                                    the rebel cavalry.
                        This morning I am sitting in a very comfortable shanty built by the soldiers at the
                                    above named place, which is about two miles below Dallas I do not know how long I
                                    will stay here, the team is to go to Chatanooga. today for rations, but I have got
                                    another fellow to make the trip for me.
                        I must tell you of one mean trick that a fellow by the name of John Nidy played on me
                                    When I went to 
                                        Nashville
                                     I left my port folio with one dollars worth of paper and envelops in
                                    it. in the Cap't box. This Nidy is the Cap'ts cook, so he went to
                                    George Clark and told him that I told him  (nidy)
                                    that he sould take care of my port folio and use some of the paper if he wanted to.
                                    wich was all a lie and when I came back he had used up all of the paper and
                                    envelopes. I do think that he is the bigest liar that I ever knew. Yet he is the
                                    Captains pet. and such men are more apt to be called good soldiers than men of truth
                                    and honesty. It seams that all a man has to do in the army to be promoted and
                                    considered something is to use a heap of profane language and whiskey and be expert
                                    in playing cards. The army is a corrupt place, a place where religious men are very
                                    little noticed.
                        
                                    J. W. Bartmess.
                                
                        to his family Amanda Elliott. Elista. (To be continued in June
                                    issue)
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Dorothy Riker, of the staff of the Indiana Historical Bureau; Irene Strieby, librarian of the Lilly
                    Research Laboratories; and Margaret Waters, of the English faculty of the Arsenal Technical High
                    School—all of 
                        Indianapolis
                    —have generously agreed to serve as editorial assistants for the genealogical
                    pages of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            Miss Riker will serve as chairman of this informal committee which will act in a review and advisory
                    capacity concerning genealogical materials. Some items concerning genealogy will normally appear in
                    each issue of the Indiana Magazine of History in accordance with the practice of
                    previous editors. Correspondence concerning genealogical items should be addressed to the Editor,
                        Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            In general, material concerning genealogy will be selected in terms of the following considerations:
                    (1) It must in one way or another be related to Indiana topics or families. (2) Contributors must
                    accept responsibility for its accuracy and be willing and able to give adequate evidence that
                    accurate copy has been supplied. (3) Genealogical accounts about particular families will normally
                    not be published unless they have historical value because of the achievements of members thereof or
                    because they illustrate population movements, origins, and the like. (4) An effort will be made to
                    publish articles and records of general interest and value to both genealogists and historians. (5)
                    Queries about particular families or individuals will, unless the requests become too numerous, be
                    published once without charge, but their maximum length should normally not exceed 25–50
                    words.
            D.F.C.
         
         
            
               
                        Fayette
                     County, Indiana, Marriages, 1819–1822
            The Genealogy Committee of the Indiana Historical Society has chosen to publish early marriages of 
                        Fayette
                     County because many residents of central Indiana (especially of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area) had to obtain their licenses at 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana. On January 20, 1820, 
                        Delaware
                     County  (not the present county) was formed from the
                    New Purchase. Embracing the central and northeast central regions of the state, this unorganized
                    area had no county seat. Jurisdiction in civil cases from January 20, 1820, until January 9, 1821,
                    was in the neighboring counties of Jackson, Jennings, 
                        Ripley
                    , 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Fayette
                    , and 
                        Wayne
                    . From January 9, 1821, until January 2, 1822, the region was under the jurisdiction of 
                        Bartholomew
                     County.
            
               
                        Marion
                     County was organized December 31, 1821, effective April 1, 1822. Prior to the latter
                    date, marriage licenses had to be obtained in 
                        Fayette
                     County (and possibly in other bordering counties). The first license issued in 
                        Marion
                     County itself was on April 30, 1822.
            The title page of the first marriage book of 
                        Fayette
                     County reads: "A Marriage Licens Record for Recording Marriages In the County
                    of 
                        Fayette
                     State of Indiana February 9 1819. Jonathan McCarty." The book is unpaged;
                    marriages are entered chronologically by the date of the license. The earliest marriage is February
                    11, 1819; the last, October 16, 1822.
            For the convenience of researchers, the male names have been alphabetically arranged and a female
                    cross-reference index made. Where no date of marriage was entered, "lie." stands
                    for the date the license was issued.
            
               Alexander, William & Rebecca Lions, 1–7–1822
               Alison, Timothy & Nancy Walker, 7–4–1819
               Applegate, 
                            Bartholomew
                         & Elizabeth Drake, 8–10–1821
               Arnold, Ephraim & Ellen McLaughlin, 5–4–1820
               Asher, Isaac & Martha Greer, 4–26–1822
               Askew—see Eskum
               Baird, James & Mary Youse, 1–6–1820
               Ball, Stephen R. & Rachel Stebbins, 5–31–1821
               Banster, James & Nancy Hallett, 9–5–1821
               Barfell, James & Letty Warnock, 1–27–1820
               Barner, John & Judith Ladd, 9–23–1820
               Bates, John & Elizabeth Noble, 4–18–1822
               Beach, Thomas & Nancy Moore, 2–4–1821
               Beard, William & Rebecca Burtin, lic. 11–1–1821
               Beck, Asa & Ann Percel, 5–2–1822
               Bell, Joseph & Jane Endsley, 5–3–1821
               Bishop, Austin & Ann Berry, June 1819 (lic. June 16)
               Blair, Alexander & Sarah Huffman, 9–13–1821
               Booe, Jacob & Nancy Hardenon, 9–19–1822
               Booe, Phillip & Jemimah Clinton, 9–23–1821
               Bradburn, John & Elizabeth Hamilton, 5–30–1822
               Brown, James Washington & Margaret Vanmeter, 12–7–1820
               Buckhannon, John & Mariah Smith, lic. 10–9–1820
               Caldwell, Train & Sarah Dehaven, lic. 8–17–1819
               Caldwell, William & Elizabeth Alexander, 4–12–1821
               Carpenter, Lyman & Dortha Perrin, 12–27–1821
               Casady, Francis & Sally McCray, 7–26–1821
               
               Catterlin, William & Rachel Harlan, 1–3–1822
               Chinn, Chichester & Sally Jackson, 10–21–1821
               Conn, William & Elizabeth Thomas, 2–22–1821
               Conner, William & Eliza Chapman, 11–30–1820
               Copsey, George Alexander & Sally Gran (?), 8–5–1821
               Cornwall, Levy, & Polly Miller, 12–14–1820
               Craft, Abraham & Margaret Allhounce, 9–25–1821
               Craft, Francis & Polly Hougham, 2–14–1822
               Crawford, Thomas & Margaret Sheepler, 11–6–1821
               Crouch, John C. & Patience Worley, 7–13–1821
               Crume, Marks & Cinthia Harlon, 3–24–1819
               Dallas, Jesse & Mary Chambers, lic. 3–30–1819
               Danner, Joseph & Mary Greeor, 1–10–1822
               Davis, Jesse & Elizabeth Chase, 8–28–1822
               Davis, Robert & Susan Manly, 7–27–1820
               Davis, Wilbern & Nancy Dale, 2–22–1821
               Dawson, Thomas & Rebecca Michel, 2–18–1820
               Dawson, William & Cynthia Wandle (?), 2–19–1821
               Dehaven, Samuel & Malinda Tyner, 12–6–1820
               Denison, John W. & Margaret Swafford, 11–21–1820
               Dickerson, Amos & Arilla Perkins, lic. 11–17–1820
               Dickey, William & Jane Miller, 4–11–1821
               Douthit, John & Nancy Conaway, 11–16–1820
               Dungan, Benjamin & Betsey Delabar, 1–31–1822
               Dungan, Joseph R. & Martha Anderson, 12–21–1820
               Dungan, William & Elizabeth Dawson, 12–2–1819
               Dunham, Nathaniel & Mary McCray, 10–23–1821
               Elstpn, Josiah & Emelia Mayberry, 6–4–1821
               Ennis, John & Catherine Messersmith, 6–18–1821
               Eskum (Askew in return), Amos & Margaret Boston, 10–16–1822
               Ewing, Henry & Margaret Phillis, 8–15–1820
               Ferree, David & Tirzah Bell, 12–5–1820
               Filpoat, Stephen & Rebecca Hawkins, 2–11–1819
               Finch, Hiram & Abigail Miller, 4–6–1820
               Fouch, Abraham & Elizabeth Vansicken, 11–19–1820
               Fouch, Thomas & Sarah Wherett, 12–21–1820
               Freeman, Elam S. & Sarah Grewell, 4–26–1821
               Fryberger, George & Mary O'Neal, 12–16–1821
               Fuel, Bennoni & Hannah Fisher, 10–21–1821
               Fuller, Charles & Sally Lamson, 10–19–1819
               Gard, William & Jane Fuel, 5–17–1819
               Garwood, John L. & Mary Wilson, 9–23–1821
               Gates, Uriah & Patsey Chinn, 1–22–1822
               Gentry, Joseph & Mary Vanmeter, 5–18–1820
               Goff, John & Lucy Johnson, 11–4–1819
               Gorman, Daniel & Hannah Corbin (?), 9–30–1821
               Grace, William & Mary Swift, 9–18–1820
               Gray, John & Mary Ronald, 9–19–1821
               Green, Samuel & Elizabeth Hittle, 12–27–1821
               Grimel (?), Adam & Sally Littrel, 10–12–1820
               Hager, John & Mary Ward, 1–6–1822
               Hale, John & Nancy Kennel, 2–4–1822
               Hamilton, Nathaniel & Lucinda Tyner, 11–7–1821
               Hamilton, Robert & Rebecca Horrell, 9–12–1822
               Hammond, Nathaniel & Hannah Vanmeter, 8–29–1822
               Harding, Nel & Rebecca Wilson, 4–2–1820
               Harlan, Jacob & Polly Simmonds, 2–8–1821
               Harlan, Stephen & Dolly Sparks, 12–20–1821
               Harter, William & Sally Williams, lic. 1–21–1822
               Hays, John & Nancy Perkins, 6–2–1820
               Heizer, Edward & Elizabeth Buckhannan, 11–4–1819
               Helm, Samuel & Patience Wherrell (Wherrett?), 9–10–1820
               
               Henderson, Eli & Sally Hamilton, lic. 9–5–1822
               Henderson, Jonathan & Anna Loudenback, 9–11–1821
               Hendricks, David & Elizabeth McCormack, 12–25–1821
               Hendrix, Jesse & Polly Knott, 10–12–1820
               Houghham, Aaron & Mary Parkhurst, lic. 11–30–1820
               Houghton, John & Rachel Logan, 1–10–1822
               Hubbell, Samuel & Mary Ann Rumley, 12–21–1820
               Hulbert, Herry & Margaret Walker, 1–8–1822
               Jacobs, Joseph & Cassander Rench, 4–23–1822
               Jones, George & Sarah Williams, 2–10–1820
               Jones, Martial & Elizabeth Miller, lic. 6–16–1821
               Julian, George & Sarah Stafford, lic. 3–28–1820
               Julin (Jacin?), Nathan & Rachel Baker, 4–7–1819
               Kippers, James & Sally Thompson, 9–28–1819
               Knight, David & Nancy Gillam, 8–8–1820
               Larimore, Miles & Susannah Eskew, 3–23–1820
               Lewis, Nathaniel & Elizabeth Peirson (?), 9–11–1820
               Lyons, Abraham & Permelia Veatch, 2–24–1820
               Lyons, Reuben & Fanny Sailor, 2–11–1821
               McCarty, Thomas & Margaret Hale, 6–19–1821
               McClary, 
                            Bartholomew
                         & Susan Miller, 1–20–1820
               McCrane, Jacob & Martha Dille, lic. 7–10–1822
               McKinney, Mathew & Rhoda Parkhurst, 12–7–1820
               McLaughlin, William & Elizabeth Taylor, 9–4–1820
               McManus, George & Elizabeth Tedford, 6–10–1820
               Martin, Isaac & Elizabeth Orr, 5–18–1820
               Mason, Horatio & Amelice (Amelia?) Perin, 7–25–1819
               Meeker, Minor & Rachael Thomas, 1–9–1820
               Melone, Charles & Keziah Abbott, 9–1–1820
               Miller, Abel & Anne Morris, 3–24–1822
               Miller, Solomon & Susannah Corder, lic. 4–19–1821
               Mills, Benjamin & Sally Thompson, 3–3–1822
               Mills, Ephraim & Mary Wooster, lic. 10–24–1821
               Mires, Henry & Nancy Albers (?), 10–12–1820
               Morris, Perry & Edah Palmer, 12–31–1820
               Muston (?), Smith & Mary Burton, lic. 2–16–1820
               Myers, Joseph & Jane Kirckman, 4–7–1822
               Nash, John & Dorcas Pearson, 8–9–1821
               Newhouse, Isaac & Winiferd Sandefer, 9–12–1820
               Newhouse, Samuel & Polly Kitchen, 12–20–1821
               Newland, Harrod L. & Lucindy Rise Carlin (Caslin?), 2–26–1819
               Norris, Robert S. & Martha Nicholas, 11–11–1819
               Norton, David & Elizabeth Benefiel, 2–10–1820
               Orwin, Martin B. & Nancy Julian, lic. 7–24–1820
               Oscom (?), Jonathan & Nancy Bragg, 1–20–1820
               Parkhurst, Isaac & Elizabeth Hornsted, 8–15–1820
               Patten, John & Jane Elliott, lic. 11–15–1820
               Penwell, John N. & Hetty H. Stockdale, 5–1–1821
               Philpott—see Filpoat
               Pogue, William & Anna Sailors, 12–23–1821
               Pool, William & Margaret Kelso, 8–5–1819
               Powel, Exsom & Elizabeth Loudenback, 8–22–1822
               Redding, John & Dyantha Halbert, 7–1–1819
               Reed, Eliphalet & Sarah Crouch, 6–29–1820
               Reed, Enos & Patsey McCarty, 10–23–1821
               Reed, John & Elizabeth Callan, 6–23–1820
               Rementon, Martillow & Ann Lyons, 4–22–1821
               Rench, Levi & Rebeckah Mills, 1–10–1822
               Reu (?), Benjamin & Betsey Blood, 9–17–1820
               Reynolds, David & Sarah Pernund (Penwell?), 3–16–1820
               Rhoads, Palsor & Lenna Chambers, 6–3–1819
               Richards, John & Nancy Brock, 3–25–1821
               
               Right, Joseph & Patsey Grisham Barnes, 1–13–1822
               Rumbley, James & Ginsey Lakey (Dakey?), lic. 11–1–1819
               Rutter, Thomas G. & Hester Lefforce, 12–25–1821
               Sandeford, Noah & Polly Withams, 9–13–1821
               Sands, Daniel & Martha Turner, 3–30–1820
               Selsur (?), Henry & Nancy Scott, 7–27–1820
               Selvey, Travis & Elizabeth Powers, lic. 5–7–1822
               Selvey, William & Nancy Mosely, 5–30–1822
               Sheplor, Phillip & Elizabeth Thirston, 6–4–1819
               Shirley, Analease & Philice Perrin, 6–24–1819
               Shirts, George & Rebecca Finch, 11–8–1822
               Smith, Isaac & Phebe Klinack (?), 5–25–1820
               Smith, Jacob & Eliza Elliott, 10–4–1821
               Smith, Jacob & Margaret Ronald, 12–13–1821
               Smith, Jesse & Eadey Harper, 3–2–1820
               Smith, Moses & Sally Harris, 10–16–1821
               Smith, Samuel & Bethena Rainland, 9–12–1822
               Smith, Tobias & Margarette Foster, 5–20–1819
               Sutton, David & Elizabeth Shields, 11–14–1821
               Sutton, Jonathan & Hannah Hubble, 9–5–1822
               Swayze, John & Rachael Morgan, lic. 8–7–1822
               Taylor, William & Elizabeth Scott, 1–30–1820
               Thomas, Joseph & Elizabeth Picksley, 7–24–1822
               Thomas, Richard & Marian Risk, 8–8–1822
               Thomas, William F. & Naomi McCay, 10–5–1820
               Thompson, John & Sarah Vansickle, 9–23–1822
               Tiffany, William & Amy Magby, 10–12–1820
               Tyler, John B. & Anna Jinks, lic. 4–5–1820
               Tyner, Drewry & Isabella Dickey, 11–23–1820
               Tyner, William & Prudence Caldwell, 11–4–1819
               Vance, John & Nancy Martin, 8–24–1819
               Vance, Samuel & Hannah White, lic. 7–21–1821
               Vance, Samuel & Nancy H. Sutton, 10–27–1822
               Vandegrift, Abraham & Patty Stevenson, 12–16–1821
               Vangilder, Samuel & Nancy Stephenson, 5–21–1821
               Vanmatre, Joseph B. & Nancy Love, 10–27–1821
               Vanmeter, Joseph & Nancy Dils, 6–28–1821
               Vanmeter, William & Elizabeth Bell, 6–1–1820
               Walker, George B. & Margaret Gorman, 5–1–1821
               Ward, Thompson & Nancy Sutton, 10–3–1822
               Wardeman, George & Mary Elliott, 8–22–1821
               Warren, William & Cortney Ellison, 11–9–1820
               Webb, James & Tansy Hayes, 8–15–1820
               Webster, Henry & Rebecca Reed, 5–13–1819
               Welsh (?), John & Frances Conner, 11–18–1819
               Westover, Hirum & Minerva Campbell, 2–17–1822
               White, James & Nancy Morris, 5–30–1822
               White, John & Ellenor Greer, 6–20–1820
               White, William & Analiza Farel, 1–27–1820
               Wick, William W. & Laura Finch, 8–20–1820
               Williams, John & Eliz. McCormack, 10–14–1819
               Williams, Mulbern & Nancy Newkin, 8–10–1819
               Williams, Thomas & Rachel Hardy (Hardesty in return) 10–10–1822
               Willis, Robert & Bethena B. Barnes, 11–28–1821
               Wilson, Gideon & Catherine Wilson, 10–3–1819
               Wilson, John & Dorcas Jones Orr, 12–21–1820
               Wilson, John & Elizabeth Wilson, 2–8–1821
               Witham, John & Nancy Bridges, 1–25–1821
               Woodyard, Alexander & Deborah Ougham (Hougham?), 1–13–1822
               Worster, Thomas & Elizabeth Howell, 7–2–1822
               Wright—see Right
            
            
            FEMALE INDEX
            
               Abbott, Keziah—Melone
               Albers (?), Nancy—Mires
               Alexander, Elizabeth—Caldwell
               Allhounce, Margaret—Craft
               Anderson, Martha—Dungan
               Baker, Rachel—Julin
               Barnes, Bethena B.—Willis
               Barnes, Patsey—Right
               Bell, Elizabeth—Vanmeter
               Bell, Tirzah—Ferree
               Benefiel, Elizabeth—Norton
               Berry, Ann—Bishop
               Blood, Betsey—Reu
               Boston, Margaret—Eskum
               Bragg, Nancy—Oscom
               Bridges, Nancy—Witham
               Brock, Nancy—Richards
               Buckhannan, Elizabeth—Heizer
               Burtin, Rebecca—Beard
               Burton, Mary—Muston
               Caldwell, Prudence—Tyner
               Callan, Elizabeth—Reed
               Caldwell, Minerva—Westover
               Carlin, Lucindy Rise—Newland
               Chambers, Lenna—Rhoads
               Chambers, Mary—Dallas
               Chapman, Eliza—Conner
               Chase, Elizabeth—Davis
               Chinn, Patsey—Gates
               Clinton, Jemimah—Booe
               Conaway, Nancy—Douthit
               Conner, Frances—Welsh (?)
               Corbin (?), Hannah—Gorman
               Corder, Susannah—Miller
               Crouch, Sarah—Reed
               Dakey, see Lakey
               Dale, Nancy—Davis
               Dawson, Elizabeth—Dungan
               Dehaven, Sarah—Caldwell
               Delabar, Betsy—Dungan
               Dickey, Isabella—Tyner
               Dille, Martha—McCrane
               Dils, Nancy—Vanmeter
               Drake, Elizabeth—Applegate
               Elliott, Eliza—Smith
               Elliott, Jane—Patten
               Elliott, Mary—Wardeman
               Ellison, Cortney—Warren
               Endsley, Jane—Bell
               Eskew, Susannah—Larimore
               Farel, Analiza—White
               Finch, Laura—Wick
               Finch, Rebecca—Shirts
               Fisher, Hannah—Fuel
               Foster, Margarette—Smith
               Fuel, Jane—Gard
               Gillam, Nancy—Knight
               Gorman, Margaret—Walker
               Gran (Grau?), Sally—Copsey
               Greer, Ellenor—White
               Greer, Martha—Asher
               Greeor, Mary—Danner
               Grewell, Sarah—Freeman
               Halbert, Dyantha—Redding
               Hale, Margaret—MeCarty
               Hallett, Nancy—Banster
               Hamilton, Elizabeth—Bradburn
               Hamilton, Sally—Henderson
               Hardenon, Nancy—Booe
               Hardesty, see Hardy
               Hardy, Rachel—Williams
               Harlan, Rachel—Catterlin
               Harlon, Cinthia—Crume
               Harper, Eadey—Smith
               Harris, Sally—Smith
               Hawkins, Rebecca—Filpoat
               Hayes, Tansy—Webb
               Kittle, Elizabeth—Green
               Hornsted, Elizabeth—Parkhurst
               Horrell, Rebecca—Hamilton
               Hougham, see Ougham
               Hougham, Polly—Craft
               Howell, Elizabeth—Worster
               Hubble, Hannah—Sutton
               Huffman, Sarah—Blair
               Jackson, Sally—Chinn
               Jinks, Anna—Tyler
               Johnson, Lucy—Goff
               Julian, Nancy—Orwin
               Kelso, Margaret—Pool
               Kennell, Nancy—Hale
               Kirckman, Jane—Myers
               Kitchen, Polly—Newhouse
               Klinack, Phebe—Smith
               Knott, Polly—Hendrix
               Ladd, Judith—Barner
               Lakey (?), Ginsey—Rumbley
               Lamson, Sally—Fuller
               Lefforce, Hester—Rutter
               Littrel, Sally—Grimel (?)
               Logan, Rachel—Houghton
               Loudenback, Anna—Henderson
               Loudenback, Elizabeth—Powel
               Love, Nancy—Vanmatre
               Lyons (Lions), Rebecca—Alexander
               MeCarty, Patsey—Reed
               McCay, Naomi—Thomas
               McCormack, Eliz.—Williams
               McCormack, Elizabeth—Hendricks
               McCray, Mary—Dunham
               McCray, Sally—Casady
               McLaughlin, Ellen—Arnold
               Magby, Amy—Tiffany
               Manly, Susan—Davis
               Martin, Nancy—Vance
               Mayberry, Emelia—Elston
               Messersmith, Catherine—Ennis
               Michel, Rebecca—Dawson
               Miller, Abigail—Finch
               Miller, Elizabeth—Jones
               
               Miller, Jane—Dickey
               Miller, Polly—Cornwall
               Miller, Susan—McClary
               Mills, Rebecca—Rench
               Moore, Nancy—Beach
               Morgan, Rachel—Swayze
               Morris, Anne—Miller
               Morris, Nancy—White
               Mosely, Nancy—Selvey
               Newkin, Nancy—Williams
               Nicholas, Martha—Norris
               Noble, Elizabeth—Bates
               O'Neal, Mary—Fryberger
               Orr, Dorcas Jones—Wilson
               Orr, Elizabeth—Martin
               Ougham, Deborah—Woodyard
               Palmer, Edah—Morris
               Parkhurst, Mary—Hougham
               Parkhurst, Rhoda—McKinney
               Pearson, Dorcas—Nash
               Peirson (?), Elizabeth—Lewis
               Penwell, see Pernund
               Percel, Ann—Beck
               Perkins, Arilla—Dickerson
               Perkins, Nancy—Hays
               Pernund (?), Sarah—Reynolds
               Perrin, Amelice (?)—Mason
               Perrin, Dortha—Carpenter
               Perrin, Philice—Shirley
               Phillis, Margaret—Ewing
               Picksley, Elizabeth—Thomas
               Powers, Elizabeth—Selvey
               Purcell, see Percel
               Rainland, Bethena—Smith
               Reed, Rebecca—Webster
               Rench, Cassander—Jacobs
               Risk, Marian—Thomas
               Ronald, Margaret—Smith
               Ronald, Mary—Gray
               Rumbley, Mary Ann—Hubbell
               Sailor, Fanny—Lyons
               Sailors, Anna—Pogue
               Sandefer, Winiferd—Newhouse
               Scott, Elizabeth—Taylor
               Scott, Nancy—Selsur
               Sheepler, Margaret—Crawford
               Shields, Elizabeth—Sutton
               Simmonds, Polly—Harlan
               Smith, Mariah—Buckhannan
               Sparks, Dolly—Harlan
               Stafford, Sarah—Julian
               Stebbins, Rachel—Ball
               Stephenson, Nancy—Vangilder
               Stevenson, Patty—Vandegrift
               Stockdale, Hetty H.—Penwell
               Sutton, Nancy—Ward
               Sutton, Nancy H.—Vance
               Swafford, Margaret—Denison
               Swift, Mary—Grace
               Taylor, Elizabeth—McLaughlin
               Tedford, Elizabeth—McManus
               Thirston, Elizabeth—Sheplor
               Thomas, Elizabeth—Conn
               Thomas, Rachel—Meeker
               Thompson, Sally—Kippers
               Thompson, Sally—Mills
               Turner, Martha—Sands
               Tyner, Lucinda—Hamilton
               Tyner, Malinda—Dehaven
               Vanmeter, Hannah—Hammond
               Vanmeter, Margaret—Brown
               Vanmeter, Mary—Gentry
               Vansicken, Elizabeth—Fouch
               Vansickle, Sarah—Thompson
               Veatch, Permelia—Lyons
               Walker, Margaret—Hulbert
               Walker, Nancy—Alison
               Wandle, Cynthia—Dawson
               Ward, Mary—Hager
               Warnock, Letty—Barfell
               Wherrell (?), Patience—Helm
               Wherrett (?), Patience—Helm
               Wherrett, Sarah—Fouch
               White, Hannah—Vance
               Williams, Sally—Harter
               Williams, Sarah—Jones
               Wilson, Catherine—Wilson
               Wilson, Elizabeth—Wilson
               Wilson, Mary—Garwood
               Wilson, Rebecca—Harding
               Withams, Polly—Sandeford
               Wooster, Mary—Mills
               Worley, Patience—Crouch
               Youse, Mary—Baird
            
         
         
            QUERIES
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to 50 words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence.
            
                    Marriage 12–21–1845, William Clark Holmes & Mary Patten. Have
                        checked Cos. of: 
                            Daviess
                        , 
                            Knox
                        , Dubois, Gibson, Posey, 
                            Warrick
                        , 
                            Greene
                        , Johnson, Pike, 
                            Vanderburgh
                        , Lawrence, 
                            Monroe
                        , Owen, Martin, 
                            Orange
                        , Crawford, 
                            Spencer
                        , Perry, Morgan, 
                            Putnam
                        .—Mr. Clark Holmes, P.O. Box 6310, Metro Sta., 
                            Los Angeles
                         55, Calif.
                    
                    Parents of Elizabeth Toliver, b. 6–22–1813, Ala.; d.
                        2–8–1862, Coles Co., Ill.; m. 12–18–1828, Lawrence
                        Co., Ind., John Calvin Davis.—Mrs. Frank J. Sherman, 518 Hamilton, Apt. B-2, Peoria,
                        Ill.
                    Marriage by 1834, between 
                            Butler
                         or Preble Co., O., & 
                            Hancock
                         Co., Ind., Barnabas B. Gray (b. 1813, N.C.) & Martha Thompson(?); parents
                        of both. Revolutionary father of: Stephen, John, Thomas, & Henry Pierson (b.
                        1–1–1770, Cape May Co., N. H., m. Elizabeth Whittacre; son Alfred b.
                        5–19–1800, m. Rebecca Thompson). Alfred's dau. Sarah (Pierson)
                        Allhands to Preble Co. and 
                            Indianapolis
                        .—Mark W. Gray, 1135 N. Butler, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Parents of James Vandeveer, b. 3–10–1810, Ky.; m. 1834 
                            Orange
                         Co., Ind., Caroline 
                            Brown
                        . In 1850, Hart Twp., 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind.—Mrs. Frank L. Baer, 4513 Brandywine St., 
                            Washington
                         16, D.C.
                    Parents of Elias M. Roberts, b. ca. 1829, Ind., & wife, Susannah Cannady, b. ca. 1829,
                        Ind.; m. 1849, 
                            Wayne
                         Co., Ind. 1860 Green Twp. Chn.: Emily, Permelia, Linus. Was Hanon Roberts, b. 1800, 
                            Ohio
                        , father of Elias?—Miss Nanon L. Carr, 6102 the Paseo, 
                            Kansas
                         City, Mo.
                    Parents of Lawson William Johnson, b. Fairfax Co., Va.; lived Christian Co., Ky., 1823, when son
                        Thornton Aurelius born. To Johnson Co., Ind., early. Parents of Margaret Ann Stubblefield (wife
                        of L.W.J.), b. Frederick Co., Va.; date & place of marriage.—Mrs. William E.
                        Gavin, 5879 Central Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Parents of George William Bailey, b. Ky. 1834 
                            Madison
                         Co., Ind. Mar. first (when & where) Sarah; had Lewis Ivan, maybe John,
                        & 2 daus. Mar. (2) 1852, Rush Co., Ind., Thurza Sills & had Angeline &
                        Amanda. Date & place of death of George & Sarah Bailey?—Mrs. A. E.
                        Coffin, 2801 State St., Santa Barbara, Calif.
                    Parents of Bathsheba Hogan, b. Va.; m. John Nelson. Lived 
                            Monroe
                         Co., Ky., where John d. Bathsheba followed sons William, John Hogan, and Whitson
                        (lived 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind.) Nelson to Ind. Want Ind. residence of William Nelson; date &
                        place of Bathsheba's death.—Mrs. A. Edgar Kucera, 4317 Westway Place,
                        Dallas, Tex.
                    
                  
                            Maryland
                         residence ca. 1765–1785 of Samuel Payne who married Mary Stillwell, dau.
                        of Elias & Marien Stillwell of 
                            Bedford
                         Co., Pa. Samuel Payne to Nelson Co., Ky. His sons Jeremiah & Elias Payne to
                        Clark Co., Ind., by 1810. Want parents of Samuel Payne.—Mrs. Sumner Hayward, 224
                        Richards Rd., Ridgewood, N.J.
                    Marriage ca. 1839–1840 of Catharine Smith (dau. of George & Barbara Bash Smith
                        of 
                            Coshocton
                         Co., O.) & Nacy Waters. He from 
                            Montgomery
                         Co., Md., to 
                            Coshocton
                         Co. ca. 1838; after marriage, to 
                            Montgomery
                         Co., O.; ca. 1860 to 
                            Hancock
                         Co., Ind., where both died.—Miss Helen Thornton, 1500 E. Michigan, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Parents of Julia Ann Nugent, b. 4–14–1814, Ind.; m.(1)
                        11–24–1831, Lawrence Co., Ind., Albert G. Pitt; she m.(2)
                        8–2–1835, Lawrence Co., Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         Connelly (want parents), b. 8–6–1812, N.C., Ashe Co. (?); was
                        David Nugent of 1820 Floyd Co., Ind., or Edward Nugent the father?—Mrs. John Zink,
                        3111 S. Madison, Tulsa 5, Okla.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Stature of Theodore Dreiser: A Critical Survey of the Man and his Work.
                    Edited by Alfred Kazin and Charles Shapiro, with an introduction by Alfred Kazin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1955, pp. 303. Bibliography. $5.00.)
            This volume is not a formal biography of Theodore Dreiser. It is rather a compilation of articles of
                    criticism, comment, and personal reminiscence, selected from various books and periodicals and early
                    newspaper reviews, covering a period of more than fifty years—from 1900 to the present
                    day. Among the twenty-five contributors are some of the leading authors and literary critics of the
                    first half of the twentieth century, including Stuart Sherman, Sherwood Anderson, Henry L. Mencken,
                    Sinclair Lewis, Francis O. Matthiessen, Malcolm Cowley, and Lionel Trilling.
            There is considerable biographical data scattered through the selections. Theodore Dreiser was born
                    in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, in 1871, and spent the first seven or eight years of his life in that city.
                    It seems to have been a rather drab existence. He knew poverty and degradation at first hand. The
                    family was a large one of German-American extraction, Roman Catholic in religion. He came to hate
                    his improvident father and to pity his mother. His education was obtained first in parochial
                    schools, then in the public schools of 
                        Warsaw
                    , Indiana, where the Dreisers lived for a number of years, and at Indiana University for
                    a period of one year. This was in the late eighties when David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     was president, Joseph Swain professor of mathematics, and Amzi Atwater professor of
                    Greek and Latin. He said that he derived much physical benefit from his year at the university but
                    through his own fault little mental stimulation. There followed several years as a newspaper
                    reporter and magazine writer in 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        New York
                    , and other cities. In 1896, in 
                        New York
                    , he assisted his older brother, Paul, a popular song writer, in composing On the Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                        
               , which was later to become the Indiana state song.
            Dreiser's first novel, Sister Carrie, appeared in 1900. It immediately
                    encountered difficulties because of an attempt  upon the part of
                    the publishers to suppress its sale. The way had been prepared for such a realistic work by the
                    fight for realism led by William Dean Howells, but this novel went far beyond anything undertaken
                    before, into the realm of naturalism, with which Howells would have no part. In short, Dreiser broke
                    completely with the English tradition of gentility. It is rather significant, in view of this fact,
                    that he secured his first recognition as a writer in 
                        England
                     where Sister Carrie was published in 1901, and highly praised in the
                        Daily Mail and in such a critical publication as the Athenaeum. The book was the forerunner of a veritable deluge of novels in the
                    1920's—a literature of disillusionment, frustration, defeat, despair, and
                    tragedy. It had its place in perhaps arousing people from their complacency. The worst that can be
                    said about this literature is that it held out no hope. There was little that was really
                    constructive about it. Man was but a helpless pawn in an all-determining environment. He was reduced
                    to the law of the jungle. Life had little purpose or meaning. Dreiser published no more novels until
                    1911, when they began to appear in rapid succession. An American Tragedy, termed
                    by Herbert G. Wells one of the great novels of the century, was published in 1925.
            Impressed by what he saw in Russia on a visit to that country in 1927, Dreiser later became a
                    Communist. Meanwhile, he turned against his father's orthodox religion and became an
                    atheist. It was in part a reaction from rigid dogmas he had come to associate with Christianity in
                    his boyhood. He was also greatly influenced in his early twenties by the reading of Herbert 
                        Spencer
                    , Thomas Huxley, and John Tyndall, as were many other young men of that day.
            Dreiser died in 1945. His writings soon became extremely unpopular. His Communist beliefs certainly
                    did not contribute to his popularity. Moreover, a new genteel tradition was ushered in. The
                    literature of protest with which he was so closely identified was no longer the fashion. He remains
                    to this day a controversial figure, and in many ways not an admirable one, yet a writer who must be
                    reckoned with in any history of modern American literature. The articles in the volume under review
                    reflect the varying opinions concerning the man and his work. They are on the whole favorable but
                    not all of them. Stuart Sherman, for  example, refers to the
                    "barbaric naturalism" of Dreiser. Sherwood Anderson, on the other hand, defends
                    him in his portrayal of the rough, ugly side of modern industrial society. After all, this was a
                    part of America. If his writing is unpleasant, there is much in American life which is unpleasant.
                    Sinclair Lewis went all out in his Nobel Prize acceptance in 1930, in defending him against attacks
                    by Henry Van Dyke and other representatives of the genteel tradition who were trying in the words of
                    the speaker "to guide America into becoming a pale edition of an English cathedral
                    town." "Dreiser," continued Lewis, "more than any other man, is
                    marching alone. Usually unappreciated, often hounded, he has cleared the trail from Victorian
                    Howellsian timidity and gentility in American fiction to honesty, boldness, and passion of life.
                    Without his pioneering I doubt if any of us could, unless we like to be sent to jail, seek to
                    express life, beauty and terror" (pp. 111–112).
            Americans who especially prize our English heritage and who cling to the older American tradition of
                    literature, which is in reality the English tradition, have little patience for Dreiser and his
                    like. Other Americans, thinking more in terms of a new chaotic America with its mixed population,
                    applaud him, painful as much of his writing is, because they believe he expresses this new America.
                    They look upon him as the outstanding leader in what has been called "the great
                    liberation"—"the new freedom" in American literature. Not many
                    readers will be changed in their point of view by this volume. None the less, the editors have
                    rendered a valuable service by bringing together in convenient form in a single volume the divergent
                    views of many writers and critics relative to a very prominent name in American literature of the
                    early decades of the twentieth century.
            One of the most valuable portions of the book, for those who might desire to pursue the subject
                    further, consists of a selected bibliography of Dreiser biography and criticism, thirty-three pages
                    in length, classified under the heading of "General" and "Book Reviews
                    and Notices" of the author's more important works.
            The volume has no index, something which was missed by the reviewer when he wished to look up certain
                    points. This, however, is a minor criticism in view of the general excellence of the book.
            
                    
                  
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana.
                
            Charles Roll
         
         
         
            
               Ma-Ka-Tai-Me-She-Kia-Kiak, Black Hawk: An Autobiography. Edited by Donald
                    Jackson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1955, pp. 206. Maps, illustrations, appendices, bibliography, and index.
                    $3.75.)
            In August of 1833, the Black Sparrow Hawk, a Sauk warrior more commonly known simply as Black Hawk,
                    informed Antoine Le Claire that he wished to dictate his autobiography to him. Le Claire, who was an
                    interpreter for the Sauk and Fox Indians, accordingly wrote down Black Hawk's oral account,
                    and John B. Patterson, a Galena newspaper editor, polished the narrative which was published at 
                        Cincinnati
                     that same year. Several other editions followed, but Donald Jackson, an editor with the
                    rank of associate professor at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, has chosen the 
                        Cincinnati
                     edition as being the most accurate and reliable. From time to time aspersions have been
                    cast upon the authenticity of the autobiography, but Jackson concludes that the account is genuine
                    although much of Black Hawk's language was changed or polished by Patterson.
            In editing Black Hawk's narrative, Jackson has not only carefully footnoted the original
                    text but has also contributed a thirty-eight-page introduction which traces Black Hawk's
                    life after his capture and gives a brief history of the Black Hawk War. Although this summary
                    contains few new facts about the war, it is written from original source material, as are the
                    footnotes. Throughout the volume there is much evidence of painstaking research and insight into the
                    problems which faced Black Hawk and his band.
            Black Hawk, the leader of the so-called British Band of Sauk and Fox, related that he was born at
                    Saukenuk near the mouth of the Rock River in the year 1767. His birth occurred just a few years
                    after the Sauk and Fox had settled at this site, which is now occupied by 
                        Rock Island
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . When the French first came into contact with the Sauk and Fox Indians, they were
                    living in the vicinity of Green Bay, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , but gradually they migrated to the Fox River, then to the 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and proceeded down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the Rock River. This was their largest settlement, although there were other
                    villages on both sides of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . As the Illini Indians were gradually pushed into southern 
                        Illinois
                    , the Sauk and Fox appropriated their lands. These eighteenth-century invaders were a
                    warlike people and one of the few tribes who never had cordial relations with the French.
            
            At about the age of fifteen Black Hawk became a brave by wounding an enemy. Soon after this both
                    Black Hawk and his father, Pyesa, joined a war party that marched against the Osage, a Siouan tribe
                    then living on the 
                        Missouri
                     River and a competitor for the 
                        Missouri
                     hunting grounds. Black Hawk killed his first enemy on this occasion and upon his return
                    to Saukenuk was permitted to join in the scalp dance. Fired with both a hatred for the Osage and a
                    desire to become a great warrior, Black Hawk later raised several successful war parties. While on
                    an expedition against the Cherokee, however, Pyesa was killed and Black Hawk assumed the role of
                    leader and "now fell heir to the great medicine bag of my
                    forefathers" (p. 55). Although Pyesa claimed descent from a chief, he did not hold that
                    office; rather he seems to have been one of the medicine men of the Sauk. Nor was Black Hawk
                    formally recognized as a chief, but as a hereditary medicine man he exerted much influence in his
                    tribe.
            As long as the Spanish were in possession of 
                        St. Louis
                    , the Sauk maintained friendly relations with them, but when the Americans took
                    possession of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase in 1804, the Sauk became skeptical of their new "fathers."
                    However, that same year they ceded their lands to the 
                        United States
                     in return for an annual payment of $1,000. But as the settlers pushed into
                    their territory, the Sauk and Fox turned their allegiance to the British in 
                        Canada
                    . And when the War of 1812 began, Black Hawk's group fought with the English
                    and thereafter were called the British Band. At the conclusion of the war, the British Band refused
                    to sign a treaty of peace, and gradually relations with the 
                        United States
                     became more strained as white settlers bought lands which were farmed by the Sauk near 
                        Rock Island
                    . In 1831 Black Hawk led his band back across the 
                        Mississippi
                     to their old village on Rock River, but they were removed. In the spring of 1832 Black
                    Hawk again returned and was determined to stay at the old village or die defending it.
            Governor John Reynolds quickly called out the militia and implored the 
                        United States
                     government for federal aid. The Winnebago Prophet had promised Black Hawk support, but
                    few of the Winnebago joined him. It soon became apparent to Black Hawk that there was no retreat
                    since the 
                        United States
                    , tired of frontier incidents, was bent on destroying his  band. The Indians moved up the Rock River into 
                        Wisconsin
                     and attempted to cross the 
                        Mississippi
                     at a point near the Bad Axe River. They were surrounded by troops and slaughtered while
                    swimming or attempting to gain the water. A few of the Indians succeeded in crossing the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and Black Hawk escaped only to be captured by a party of Winnebago and delivered to
                    Col. Zachary Taylor at 
                        Prairie
                     du Chien. The so-called war had lasted just fifteen weeks. Black Hawk and the other
                    leaders were held in prison for a while and then released. After a tour of the East, Black Hawk took
                    up his residence near the 
                        Iowa
                     River and later moved to the Des Moines, where he died on October 3, 1838.
            Jackson's work is certainly the definitive edition of Black Hawk's autobiography.
                    The format, designed by Ralph Eckerstrom, and the printing, done at the Print Shop of the University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    , are both excellent examples of fine bookmaking. If there is a criticism of the book,
                    it is that Jackson did not use the large collection of William Clark Papers at the 
                        Kansas
                     State Historical Society. These letter-books answer many questions about the British
                    Band. For example, they help to explain why Black Hawk, ranking only as a medicine man and brave,
                    was able to exert so much influence over this band in the spring of 1832. The recognized chiefs,
                    Black Thunder, Na-Moctt, and Ioway, had all died in 1831. (Felix St. Vrain to William Clark, 
                        St. Louis
                    , May 28, 1831; 
                        Rock Island
                    , April 6, 1832.)
            
                    
                  
                            Illinois
                         State Museum
                
            Wayne C. Temple
         
         
            
               Culture on the Moving Frontier. By Louis B. Wright. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1955, pp. 273. Index. $3.50.)
            One of the perennial problems of American history is to explain the differences between the European
                    and the American. The major difference is in culture, although that word can have many shades of
                    meaning. To use the word "culture" to describe conditions on the American frontier
                    is perhaps a misuse of the word, yet there was definitely no cultural vacuum, once the European
                    immigrants reached that outer rim of civilization which is usually meant by the word frontier.
                    Frederick Jackson Turner tried to explain the  great distinctions
                    of the Americans by the influence of the frontier, but the frontier in his original use implied that
                    the vacuum did exist and that the European had to go as it were through this vacuum to emerge from
                    it an American. Everett Dick seems to be the only one who really tried to prove this extreme thesis
                    of a decline to savagery in his Vanguard of the Frontier (1941). Louis Wright is
                    really using the word "culture" in the better sense as that which flowers in
                    civilization; and he tries in these lectures to show that there were always elements of this old
                    civilization on the English American frontier and that the pioneers were engaged in a constant
                    struggle to increase and to intensify this culture.
            The culture on the frontier which he makes the subject of his study is that of the eastern seaboard,
                    especially that of New 
                        England
                    . He correctly assumes that any culture or civilization worthy of the name would be the
                    English culture in a country that is definitely English-speaking. He takes it for granted that the
                    necessary agents of that culture were the towns and the libraries of the pioneers. In the south
                    where towns were few the aristocracy had to have a personal or family library. There were books in
                    surprising numbers on all English frontiers. In nearly every part of the frontier the desire to
                    perpetuate among the children of the pioneers their religious and political faiths was the chief
                    incentive to maintain as much as possible of older cultural patterns which the settlers had learned
                    in the lands from which they came.
            Wright has given a simple straightforward account in which his purpose is very evident.
                    Unfortunately, he seems to have printed his spoken discourse without reorganization; the spoken
                    lecture adaptable to an audience is rather shallow on the printed page. Some of his illustrative
                    material, useful to relieve the strain of a long lecture, might have been eliminated. He has made an
                    excellent use of the printed materials on the history of the frontier, although he has made these
                    printed witnesses carry more proof than they should. In his desire to mark the progress of this
                    British Protestant culture he has brushed aside the many exceptions, and even understated the wide
                    divergencies of religion that developed on the frontier among the sects. Nevertheless, he has stated
                    in clear fashion the most important facts about the frontier and about the developments immediately
                    after the advance  of the frontier. This dominant American
                    culture is essentially the culture of 
                        England
                     modified by frontier conditions. To develop this theme over the whole history of the
                    American frontier was too great a task for four lectures, however pleasant they were to hear; the
                    book suffers from this and from the fact that he has derived many of his ideas from secondary
                    sources. (This disappointment is realized only by reading the footnotes hidden in the back of the
                    book.) But he has spoken well on a theme that needs a more rigorous and more extended study by
                    American historians.
            
                    University of Notre Dame
                
            Thomas T. McAvoy
         
         
            
               Machines of Plenty: Pioneering in American Agriculture. By Stewart H. Holbrook. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1955, pp. 246. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $4.00.)
            Reversing the slogan of the famous wagon-makers, this attractively designed and illustrated volume
                    provides much less in scope and content than its title promises. Instead of the naturally expected
                    history of farm mechanization, the reader is presented with a smattering sketch of the career and
                    times of Jerome Increase Case and the industry which he founded. The book thus belongs to the genre
                    of promotive business histories, whether presented directly as such or under more general guise.
            Inevitably this sort of history does not lend itself to critical objectivity. J. I. C. seldom made
                    mistakes and when he did he invariably profited by them. Competitors were unfair in selling
                    practices, but, apparently, not the Cases. The prevailing tone is wholly in accord with the
                    conservative revisionist appreciative reappraisal of capitalists and capitalism.
            However, Holbrook's conservatism in matter is in sharp contrast to his aberrational manner
                    of presentation. In organization and expression he flouts elementary standards of composition to say
                    nothing of the accepted usages of historical writing. After the fashion of writers of popular
                    fiction, he separates the divisions of his narration merely by number, with no organizational
                    titles. This noncommittal arrangement, no doubt, has the advantage, in the author's design,
                         of keeping the reader guessing as to what is coming next and
                    of giving the narrator free range to digress as far and wide as his fancies dictate, with the
                    apparent conviction that anything in the period could be related to the enterprise of the Cases.
            Thus the setting is made with a highly impressionistic survey of the westward movement and the
                    conclusion with a panoramic survey of the changes in American agriculture that suggests the old-time
                    farmers' institute "then and now" addresses. The extended account of the
                    family's horse-racing ventures—including the illogical observation that it was
                    preferable to gain fame as an owner of race horses rather than from the impatient remark attributed
                    to William H. Vanderbilt—was deemed pertinent for its advertising value. The apparent
                    purpose of retelling, less accurately and adequately than it had been related elsewhere, the story
                    of bonanza farming was apparently as a background for the extended use of agricultural machinery.
                    The section given to swindling salesmen was generously extended to include Bibles, sewing-machines,
                    and seeds, as well as farm machinery.
            These gratuitous ventures into general historical matters have involved inaccurate or erroneous
                    statements of which the following examples are typical. The Agricultural Society of the 
                        United States
                     is confused with the 
                        United States
                     Agricultural Society of a decade later. In spite of conclusive available evidence to
                    the contrary, the local legend of Jonathan B. Turner's "notable help" to
                    Justin Morrill is affirmed. Whatever its temporary utility, the Osage orange hedge was far from
                    being an "incomparable success." To characterize the Patrons of Husbandry as
                    "a sort of rural Masonic order" (pp. 12–13) is to do an injustice to
                    both organizations. Following an outmoded vogue of certain economic historians,
                    "revolutions" appear at every turn, including the gradual adoption of horse power
                    and the coming of dairying to 
                        Wisconsin
                    !
            Form and phraseology exhibit journalese in the extreme. Vocations or avocations are used throughout
                    as titles. Thus on a single page, Solon Robinson is successively "Husbandman,"
                    "Prophet," "Agriculturalist" (reduced to the simpler
                    "Agriculturist" in a later chapter), and a little later,
                    "Agitator." Other leading characters are introduced as
                    "Industrialist,"  "Farmer,"
                    "Inventor," "Horseman," and "Agronomist."
                    Emphasis is sought by such arbitrary capitalization as "Rush of Forty-nine."
                    Outside of a frontier joke book there is no place for such a descriptive effort as
                    "settlers in some Godforsaken place near the moon called the 
                        Oregon
                     Country" (p. 4). The limit of metaphorical confusion would seem to be
                    approached in the boast that "Case's Agitator ran away with the cream of the
                    threshing-machine business" (p. 68).
            The so-called bibliography, in form and selection, is wholly indifferent to elemental standards of
                    research. Apparently the main source was the records of the company, but they are not described or
                    specifically cited. Other entries show a lack of familiarity and discrimination in sources and
                    special studies. Reynold M. Wik's key study of steam power, published in 1953, is listed
                    and quoted only in the unrevised manuscript. Leading studies, such as that of Leo Rogin, are not
                    included. Agricultural and trade journals are listed merely by title with no indication of the years
                    which were covered.
            In spite of the rambling organization and uncritical presentation, the book has much of interest in
                    its flickering sidelights on the organization and policies of a great industrial enterprise. The
                    founder and his company merited a serious and balanced study that would have been a distinct
                    contribution both to agricultural and business history. Unfortunately the main contribution of the
                    present exhibit is in showing how such a history should not be written.
            
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         State College
                
            Earle D. Ross
         
         
            
               The Memoirs of Will H. Hays. (
                        New York
                    : Doubleday & Company, 1955, pp. viii, 600. Portrait and index.
                    $7.50.)
            In these Memoirs, the late Will H. Hays gives a generally detailed and a frequently
                    repetitious account of his lengthy career first as a Republican leader and then as
                    "czar" of the film producers. Born in the coal-mining community of Sullivan,
                    Indiana, in 1879, the son of a prominent citizen who was a reasonably prosperous lawyer, his youth
                    was much unlike that normally experienced by local boys.
            Hays apparently became a lawyer, a Mason, a Presbyterian, and a Republican without the necessity for
                    much reflection or deep soul-searching. His boyhood atmosphere engendered respect for and an
                    appreciation of the "eternal  verities,"
                    supplying a firm and enduring conservative bent to his religious, economic, and political views. He
                    also acquired a strong flavor of Hoosier provincialism and a vigorous spirit of nationalism or
                    Americanism. In the main, Hays was a joiner, an organizer, a propagandist, an administrator, a
                    politician, a harmonizer, and the like. His Memoirs indicate his faith in the
                    necessity for persons who play such varied roles in a democracy.
            In 1900, Hays was graduated from 
                        Wabash
                     College, admitted to the bar, made a precinct committeeman, and cast his first vote. To
                    quote him: "The pattern was definitely set" (p. 48). From then until near the end
                    of World War I, he was principally engaged in practicing law with his father and in ascending the
                    Republican political ladder within Indiana. In 1904, he became county chairman; in 1906, head of the
                    state speakers bureau, a position he held until 1910; in the latter year, he became district
                    chairman, a post to which he was re-elected in 1912; in 1914, he became state chairman and served
                    until 1918 when he was elected national chairman.
            Hays deprecated the split in the Republican party in 1912, but he gave his wholehearted support to
                    Taft despite his personal fondness for T.R. He recounts with evident satisfaction his aid in helping
                    to reunite the Hoosier GOP, but useful as his version is, it is not by any means the whole story.
                    During part of World War I, he doubled as state chairman and as head of the state civilian defense
                    committee.
            Generally in these Memoirs, Hays assumes that political rivals, both factional and
                    partisan, are as sincere, honest, and patriotic as those who agree with him, but this assumption is
                    not inclusive enough to encompass President Wilson. According to Hays, this fellow Presbyterian
                    doomed the League of Nations and multiplied partisan conflicts because of his stubbornness,
                    inability or unwillingness to compromise, rank partisanship, and lack of political acumen, as well
                    as by his unwise and unnecessary participation in the 
                        Paris
                     Peace Conference. His heavy assaults against Wilson, even though they at times hit at
                    vulnerable points, bear evidence of strong bias and an international mindedness perhaps more like
                    Hays of the 1940's than of Hays, the Republican national chairman. On the other hand,
                    though he was postmaster general under President Harding from 1919 until 1922, he  has relatively little to say of Harding as a man and almost nothing by
                    way of evaluating Harding's administration. Such neglect is disturbing since Hays was the
                    national chairman, and as a cabinet member doubtless could have added significant information and
                    relevant evaluations concerning Harding and his record. The Memoirs, however, do
                    recount with much satisfaction the reorganization of the postal department under Hays.
            Among the comprehensive and revealing portions of this volume are the chapters regarding
                    Hays' long service with the film producers which resulted in his being dubbed the
                    "czar" of the movies for the years from 1922 until 1945. He admits that conditions
                    in the industry were bad when he entered this field, but he often seems to be unduly optimistic
                    about the amount of progress attained. The frustrating and continuing problems arising from efforts
                    at industrial self-regulation are described in much detail, while the ease with which codes already
                    formulated were easily adapted to the NRA in the early days of the New Deal has its ironic twist.
                    His lobbying for free trade in films—even through conferences with F.D.R. and important
                    British officials—is recounted with the not surprising comment that such efforts brought
                    kidding from some of his Republican colleagues. The chapters about the film industry are replete
                    with items regarding its business operations, struggles for self-regulation, efforts to avoid both
                    private and governmental censorship, its personalities, its varied services and contributions during
                    World War II as well as its roles with regard to both entertainment and education.
            According to the publisher, this volume was completed shortly before Hays died in 1954. It bears
                    evidence of composite authorship, a process suggested by the acknowledgements in the foreword.
                    Unfortunately, sources, even those for the numerous quotations, are seldom indicated in such a
                    manner as to make verification possible in the usual manner. Nevertheless, there is abundant
                    evidence that Hays drew much from his diary and from an apparently voluminous collection of letters,
                    addresses, and miscellaneous records. These Memoirs will certainly be useful in
                    the writing of both state and national history, but perhaps the basic sources used in their
                    composition would be even more useful to historians than are these recollections.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               William Blount. By William H. Masterson. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1954, pp. xii, 378. Map, illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $5.00.)
            William Blount was a large land speculator in the early Southwest, the governor of the Territory
                    South of the River 
                        Ohio
                    , and a member of the United State Senate. From the latter position he was expelled
                    because of involvement in foreign negotiations which seemed disloyal. The present volume, which is
                    the first thorough and critical biography of the man, replaces an earlier work by Marcus J. Wright
                    entitled The Life and Services of William Blount (1884).
            Although Blount is frequently thought of as a land speculator, his political career was by no means
                    insignificant. He was a member of the 
                        North Carolina
                     House of Commons in 1781, 1783, and 1784; of the state senate in 1788 and 1789; and of
                    the Confederation Congress in 1788 and 1789. He was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention of
                    1787 which drafted the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     and a member of the convention in 
                        North Carolina
                     which ratified the Constitution. President George Washington appointed him Governor of
                    the Territory South of the River 
                        Ohio
                     and Superintendent of Indian Affairs in the Southern Department in 1790, positions
                    which he held until 1796. He was president of the convention which formed the first constitution of
                    the state of 
                        Tennessee
                    . He then became one of the first members of the 
                        United States
                     Senate from the new state. After expulsion from this body he was elected to the senate
                    of 
                        Tennessee
                     and was chosen speaker. Such achievements have led Thomas P. Abernethy to comment in
                    his volume, From Frontier to Plantation in 
                            Tennessee
                        
               , "As long as [Blount] lived, he dominated directly or indirectly the
                    politics of the section in which he made his home" (p. 168).
            Masterson on the other hand presents a more minute picture of Blount, details of which are exceptions
                    to Abernethy's generalization. For instance Blount was defeated for re-election to the
                    Confederation Congress late in 1786 and on February 2, 1787, was defeated for the presidency of
                    Congress by Arthur St. Clair. Two years later he was defeated in his efforts to be elected 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        North Carolina
                    . After his expulsion from the Senate, July 7, 1797, 
                    he was able to effect his election to the 
                        Tennessee
                     senate and to its speakership, but he was not able to control Governor John Sevier or
                    make himself governor. He and his brother, John Gray Blount, were able narrowly at various times to
                    avoid prosecution for financial irregularities.
            Masterson presents Blount as the big business man or speculator who ruthlessly swept aside political
                    principles as well as smaller men in his campaign for riches. Yet he relates many details of his
                    career which form exceptions to this generalization. Blount excelled chiefly in taking private
                    advantage of official position. His profits must have exceeded his losses, but he was generally
                    short of cash. He lost heavily from the failure of a partner, his firm was near bankruptcy in his
                    last days, his brother John Gray was indicted for "high crimes," and another
                    accomplice escaped prosecution after arrest in Natchez. No attempt was made by the author to
                    estimate the value of his estate after final settlement.
            On the whole Blount was a very successful territorial governor. He identified himself with the
                    territory. He sought to protect the people from Indian attack and to persuade the federal government
                    to obtain more land from the Indians in order that it might be available for settlement. It did not
                    disturb the people of the territory that he stood to profit as a result of his actions, for they too
                    would profit. During this period, he was also very astute in overcoming opposition by means of
                    concessions, a policy which tended to preserve unity in trying times.
            The author's style is suited to the subject, somewhat rugged in some of the early chapters,
                    but flowing and smooth in the period of Blount's greater prominence. Throughout the volume
                    the author is frank with his readers, presenting Blount as he was, not glossing over his offences.
                    Only at the very end does he succumb to the vice of biographers and picture his subject as a
                    statesman. The volume is a very successful piece of work. It fills a gap in the knowledge of the
                    early Southwest and adds a worthy volume to the already successful Southern Biography
                        Series.
            
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               Land of Their Choice: The Immigrants Write Home. Edited by Theodore C. Blegen. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1955, pp. xix, 463. Index. $5.75.)
            This remarkable book presents a first-hand account of a neglected phase of American history. It is a
                    collection of letters which Norwegian immigrants wrote to relatives and friends at home about the
                    land of their choice. All the letters selected were written originally in Norwegian during the
                    period from the 1820's to the 1870's. While they represent a geographic spread
                    from coast to coast, most of them were written from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Middle West, 
                        Texas
                    , and 
                        California
                    . In the Scandinavian countries such letters were called "America
                    letters" and the impulse they generated among others to emigrate was diagnosed as
                    "America fever." These letters form a diary on a grand scale and are significant
                    for the image of America that they transmitted to the people of Norway. They are important, too, for
                    their revelation of immigrants as human beings with names, personalities, and all the attributes of
                    men and women living their lives amid change and struggle. These Norwegian "America
                    letters" will remind historians of the existence of similar source material in other
                    European countries, the study of which may well provide a fresh approach to our history. To
                    illustrate—Professor Blegen states that, as not one of the 
                        California
                     letters translated from early Norwegian newspapers has so much as been cited in any
                    general work on the forty-niners, the story of the gold rush has not yet been fully told.
            The editor, dean of the Graduate School of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , travelled to Norway, where he collected the letters from Norwegian families and
                    newspapers which frequently published "America letters." He made typewritten and
                    photostatic copies, which were ultimately deposited in their complete form either in the archives of
                    the Norwegian-American Historical Association at Northfield, 
                        Minnesota
                    , or in the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society in 
                        St. Paul
                    . Arrangements were made to have the originals preserved in Norwegian collections.
                    Professor Blegen did more than edit this work. His chapter, "The Immigrant Image of
                    America," and his introductions to the various other chapters interpret and supplement the
                    stories told by the immigrants in a manner that will be welcomed by those concerned with this phase
                    of history.
            
            The "America letters" were not confined to the rank and file of the immigrants. Ole
                    Munch Raeder, a distinguished jurist, visited the 
                        United States
                     in the 1840's to study the American jury system. His letters took the form of
                    a searching commentary on American life. Frithjof Meidell lived in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , in the 1850's and saw the comic aspects of the American
                    West in an amusing manner. Cleng Peerson, the "Daniel 
                        Boone
                    " of the Norwegian migration, scouted the West for suitable places for his
                    countrymen to settle and later blazed their trail to 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , and even to 
                        Texas
                    . No single early letter writer, the editor reports, had more influence than Gjert G.
                    Hovland, whose hundreds of letters were published in Norway's newspapers.
                    Hovland's bright picture of America was essentially the one accepted by thousands who
                    sought ships to carry them to the New World. The immigrant letters also tell the story of Oleana,
                    which Ole Bull, the colorful Norwegian violinist, sought to establish in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1852.
            For the most part the immigrants were people of little education, and land, work, and hardships bulk
                    large in their reports. While most of them were content in their new home, they soon discovered that
                    in America the hedges did not "consist of sides of bacon and tobacco" nor was it a
                    land filled with "little roasted piggies" that politely asked one to have some
                    ham. Many did not survive the ordeal of the Atlantic crossing of from six to fourteen weeks. Others
                    who travelled westward on the Erie Canal complained that they were crowded in the boats like pigs
                    and in general were treated like swine. They suffered from disease and from hard work done at a pace
                    to which they were unaccustomed. Those ignorant of the English language were frequently cheated by
                    unscrupulous "Yankees" and in some instances by their own countrymen. Land was
                    often more expensive and less fertile than they had been led to believe. On the other hand, reverses
                    did not destroy the immigrant's faith in the freedom of the new land. A 
                        Chicago
                     group reported to the people back home that "here it is not asked, what or who
                    was your father, but the question is, what are you? … Freedom … seems as
                    essential to every citizen of the 
                        United States
                     as the air he breathes" (p. 203).
            The letters are filled with advice and warnings of pitfalls to be avoided by those contemplating
                    migration to the  New World. The old, the well-to-do, and those
                    with large families were advised to stay at home. America was a place for the young, particularly
                    young farmers. The emigrants were warned that American and English shipowners overcrowded their
                    boats and in general served poor food and an inadequate supply of water to their passengers.
                    Norwegian boats were better but even these should be carefully inspected before departure to make
                    certain that the owners were prepared to comply with the terms of the contract. Everywhere there was
                    emphasis on work and those reluctant to engage in hard manual labor were advised to remain behind.
                    The discovery of gold in 
                        California
                     fired the imaginations of Norwegians and was in part responsible for the increase of
                    emigration from 1,400 in 1848 to 4,000 in 1849. Ships were chartered by groups of gold-seekers. Only
                    a few who ultimately reached the promised land met with any success in the gold fields. Some found
                    employment at good wages as carpenters, mechanics, and as common laborers. Others moved on to better
                    opportunities in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Oregon
                    .
            This work is a fine example of scholarly editing and historical interpretation. The footnotes are
                    where they should be, at the bottom of the pages, and there is an adequate index.
            
                    Indiana, University
                
            Powell Moore
         
         
            
               The Federalism of James A. Bayard. By Morton Borden. 
                  
                            Columbia
                         Studies in the Social Sciences, No. 584. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1955, pp. 256. Bibliography, index. $4.00.)
            It is a curious fact that no serious, full-length biography has ever been written of James A. Bayard,
                    an American statesman deserving of such attention not only for his own accomplishments but also
                    because he was the progenitor of a succession of Bayards prominent in national politics. The subject
                    has been literally crying for attention since 1913 when Bayard's papers were published in
                    the annual report of the American Historical Association, but Borden's book is the first
                    one to face the challenge.
            This worthy addition to the 
                  
                            Columbia
                         Studies in the Social Sciences does not pretend to be much more than an
                    investigation  of Bayard's role in Congress, where he
                    was a forceful figure from 1797 to 1813, first as a brilliant spokesman for the majority party in
                    the House of Representatives, then as the virtual minority leader after the Republican revolution of
                    1800, and finally as a member of the futile handful of Federalists in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. When he was the single representative from 
                        Delaware
                     in the lower house, Bayard exerted much more influence than he later commanded as one
                    of the state's two senators, and it was therefore during the earlier period of his
                    political career that he really had a hand in molding American history. For this reason, if for no
                    other, Professor Borden's chapters on Bayard's championship of the Alien and the
                    Sedition Acts, his prosecution of the Blount impeachment, his dubious relations with John Adams and
                    Alexander Hamilton, and his vital agency in swinging the disputed election of 1801 to Jefferson are
                    the best in his book. The latter (Chapter VII, pp. 73–95) is, indeed, a model of careful
                    research and perspicacious analysis, suitable for special study in historiography courses. Professor
                    Borden rightly concludes that three charges sometimes made by historians—(1) that Aaron
                    Burr intrigued with the Federalists for their votes in the House of Representatives, (2) that Bayard
                    attempted to corrupt Republican congressmen while working for Burr's election, (3) that
                    Thomas Jefferson accepted Bayard's "terms" in order to become
                    President—rest upon evidence too flimsy to be accepted.
            Although this is primarily a portrait of the politician rather than of the man, the final estimate of
                    Bayard's Federalism rests upon his character, and character analysis is the weakest part of
                    Borden's book. Bayard remained a lifelong Federalist, but the kind of Federalist who could
                    bring himself reluctantly to make Thomas Jefferson President in 1801 and accept appointment to a
                    peace mission by James 
                        Madison
                     in 1813. Unlike the Essex Junto fanatics, Bayard tempered the tory side of his
                    Federalism enough to co-operate with a Republican administration for the good of his country, but
                    conversely, unlike John Quincy Adams, yielded enough of the nationalist in his Federalism to refrain
                    from changing parties altogether. Borden does not see this flexibility as a chink in the
                    Chevalier's armor. In his chapter on the rivalry between Bayard and Adams (Chapter XIII,
                    pp. 157–168), it is the latter who is placed on the defensive for going over to  the Republican camp while the 
                        Delaware
                     senator is applauded, at least inferentially, for maintaining his allegiance to a
                    moribund and self-betrayed political organization. Yet the principles of the two men remained
                    theoretically the same. Borden is ingenious in explaining away the remarkable contradiction between
                    Bayard's admission in 1810 that sufficient cause for war with 
                        England
                     existed and his insistence that no augmentation of the nation's minuscule
                    military forces was necessary. Equally requisite of logistical agility is the explanation of
                    Bayard's agreement to serve on the peace mission of 1813 with instructions that convinced
                    him it would fail while at the same time assuring his party associates that a practicable peace
                    might be expected. The Chevalier indubitably was sans peur but it might well be
                    questioned whether he was always and entirely sans reproche. Consistency, of
                    course, is not necessarily a virtue among public office-holders, but it might be, perhaps, among
                    authors. On one page Borden speaks of Bayard's political skill and discretion in balancing
                    himself between the Adams and Hamilton factions of his party (by writing denunciatory letters to
                    Hamilton while remaining ostensibly on friendly terms with Adams): on another (p. 7) he praises
                    Bayard's honesty in rejecting "the Machiavellian plan of Alexander Hamilton to
                    rebuild the Federalist party" (which was actually a typical failure to recognize one of the
                    few occasions when a Federalist leader ever grasped the realities of practical politics.) Nothing,
                    however, is so difficult as the justification of political maneuvering in the absence of any fixed
                    standards of conduct, and it must be admitted that Borden does not attempt to hide the
                    facts—the basis upon which each reader can form his own opinion is faithfully presented.
            In spite of a few annoying literary mannerisms (Bayard is referred to as "the
                    Delawarean" three times on p. 101) and several typographical errors, this is a well-written
                    and competently published book. Professor Borden manages to hold the reader's interest even
                    through the long synopses of Bayard's speeches. His work is founded upon an exhaustive
                    study of the sources, including some items, such as the Plumer papers and the local 
                        Delaware
                     collections, which have been generally neglected by historians. The only reference
                    which he seems to have overlooked is an unpublished master's thesis on "The
                    Political Career of James A, Bayard" by an Indiana 
                    University history major. Professor Borden has written a useful book but Bayard as a man does not
                    emerge from his pages, nor is Bayard as a Federalist clearly revealed. Other biographies, and more
                    studies like the recent book by John A. Munroe, Federalist 
                            Delaware
                        , 1775–1815 (1954), are necessary to illuminate this fascinating
                    period in the imperfectly understood politics of such states as 
                        Delaware
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , and 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               The Southern Claims Commission. By Frank W. Klingberg. University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History, Vol. L. (Berkeley and 
                        Los Angeles
                    : University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1955, pp. ix, 261. Map, appendices, bibliography, and index. Paperbound.
                    $3.50.)
            This volume is the result of prolonged and prodigious research in varied and almost limitless
                    documents that would deter all but the most determined from undertaking such a project. The results
                    are good; the materials are utilized effectively; and seventy-five years after the Southern Claims
                    Commission went out of existence we have a study of its operations.
            Klingberg's first chapter, "The Persistence of Unionism," should be read
                    by all who pretend to know anything about the Civil War, and it will be especially rewarding to
                    those who continue to be amazed each time a biography of a southern unionist appears and they
                    discover that they still have two fingers on which to count their little band of faithfuls. After
                    considering the closeness of the popular vote in the South in the elections of 1840, 1844, and 1848
                    and reminding his readers of the fact that a large number of the important planters were born in the
                    North, the author emphasizes the point that the unionist was often a man of property and influence
                    in his community. This meant that the pressures were great on him and that his convictions were
                    sorely tested by bond issues, impressment practices, and tax measures, as well as by numerous social
                    forces. Active resistance to the Confederacy, or neutrality, was more difficult than for the man of
                    little property living in the more remote areas. Even so, a large number remained loyal and
                    willingly  turned over to Federal authorities their
                    quartermaster and commissary supplies, which were accepted in the good faith that ready compensation
                    could be expected at the end of the war. However, by that time payment had been so restricted that
                    it had virtually reached the point of repudiation.
            Klingberg treats rather succinctly and with adequate skill the wartime handling of the claims
                    problem. Admittedly, it was a knotty one, and the practices seem to bear no particular relation to
                    logic or to equity. For example, under the law of July 4, 1864, a 
                        Kentucky
                     unionist could file a claim as a matter of course, while a 
                        Tennessee
                     unionist could not file even though he had been a member of the Union army! Nor was
                    guilt by association and guilt by residence set aside—nor the position of the southern
                    unionist clarified—by the decision in the Prize Cases. This decision seemed to say that
                    in civil war the power of the government over its rebellious citizens was greater than over alien
                    enemies, since in the former instance the government also possessed the power to confiscate property
                    and to punish for treason. The activity of the Court of Claims is reviewed briefly. The jurisdiction
                    of this tribunal was so limited, however, that for almost six years after the war there was no means
                    of redress for most of those in the seceded states who had risked life and property for the Union
                    cause.
            The question of compensation for those southern unionists was caught up in the Liberal Republican
                    movement with the major discussion centering around the responsibility and ability of the government
                    to pay, the proper agency for judging claims, the problems of evaluation, and the definition of
                    loyalty. The measure for the commission was passed on March 3, 1871; one week later the three-man
                    commission had been appointed and approved. No claim could be received after March 3, 1873; on that
                    day 1,282 were filed. In the two-year period 22,298 petitions requested more than sixty million
                    dollars for quartermaster and commissary supplies—"stores or supplies"
                    which had been "taken or furnished … for the use of the
                    army." (Italics added.) Klingberg believes that, in view of the various restrictions and
                    extenuating circumstances, for every one who filed there were at least four with "equal qualifications for unionism and property" who
                    did not file (p. 164).
            
            The commission spent nine years examining and evaluating these claims: those for $10,000
                    or more in 
                        Washington
                    , the lesser ones in the field. In this process the commissioners were assisted by some
                    special agents and commissioners, and altogether they probably examined as many as 220,000
                    witnesses. Written papers (including receipts and vouchers), oral examinations of the petitioner and
                    of witnesses, and a study of the home community were involved. Acceptable answers to eighty detailed
                    questions—many of which were multiple (appendix)—was one means of separating
                    the true loyalists from those who hopefully thought they might be able to qualify. The tests of
                    loyalty and of property were severe, but in their application the agency seems to have been
                    "careful, prudent, and just." The commission was generally immune from attack, and
                    whatever errors it might have made appear to have favored economy rather than generosity.
            In his analyses, and in determining the application of the procedures, the author has given detailed
                    study to the cases of the 701 men and women who filed for $10,000 or more—50
                    of them sought $100,000 or more, with one claim running to $450,000. Their
                    claims amounted to more than twenty-two and a half million dollars, or about 2 per cent of the
                    public debt of 1864. 
                        Louisiana
                    , 
                        Mississippi
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                     accounted for 436 of these large claims; 125 were allowed for about
                    $950,000. Of the 16,991 claims prosecuted to a conclusion (some were disallowed as not
                    falling strictly under the provisions of the creating act), 41 per cent met the tests, and the
                    awards totalled $4,636,920.69.
            The history of claims under the Bowman (1883) and Tucker (1887) acts is briefly reviewed. The latter
                    act permitted the receiving of the claims of churches and schools for judicial
                    appraisal—only individuals could seek compensation from the Claims Commission. In March,
                    1915, all jurisdiction over southern claims was withdrawn from the Court of Claims.
            There are a few slips in construction and an occasional confusion over names, but in the main the
                    proofreading and editorial work is good. The monograph was greatly needed; it is thorough and
                    scholarly; it is a welcome addition to the all-too-small body of information on the southern
                    unionists.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Chase C. Mooney
         
         
         
            
               A Goodly Heritage. Earliest Wills on an American Frontier. By Ella Chalfant. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1955, pp. xiii, 239. Illustrations, appendices, and index. $3.00.)
            This volume will be of interest to the historian as well as to the genealogist for through these
                    wills the social background of the frontier comes to life. The wills represent a selection from the
                    Register of Wills Office in Allegheny County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , with 
                        Pittsburgh
                     as the county seat; the earliest will presented was probated in 1789, the most recent
                    in 1884; the majority are from the early period. The arrangement is according to subject matter or
                    type of will. Examples of intestate proceedings are also given with itemized inventories and
                    valuation of property of persons who died without making a will. There are wills made by men of
                    affluence and some made by persons of little or no wealth, e.g., Jane Watson left her
                    "spectackles" and "staff" to her brothers, and to her daughter,
                    "a quarter of a dollar, in the hope that she will think of Heaven, and amend her ways
                    before it is too late" (pp. 42–43).
            The wills illustrate such topics as slavery and the indenture system (slaves were handed down along
                    with pots and pans and cows); the legal status of women (wives could not dispose of property without
                    the consent of their husbands); the currency in use; dress; Indian trade; and the tools and
                    equipment of the different professions. The largest portion of an estate went to the oldest son
                    because he was to support the mother and care for the younger children. Opportunities offered on the
                    frontier for gathering material wealth are vividly portrayed, also the risks involved. Back of the
                    cold and formal phrasing of these legal documents one glimpses the character of these pioneer men
                    and women, their hopes and their fears, their successes and their failures.
            The author groups the wills and weaves them together in a manner that makes the volume very readable.
                    There is a complete index and in addition there is an index of the names in the first three will
                    books of 
                        Allegheny County
                    .
            
                    Indiana Historical Bureau
                
            Dorothy Riker
         
         
         
            
               Manuscripts Collections of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society. Guide Number 2. Compiled by Lucile M. Kane and Kathryn A.
                    Johnson. (Saint Paul: 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1955, pp. xiii, 212. Index. $3.60.)
            Twenty years ago the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society issued the first guide to its manuscript collections. This was
                    entitled Guide to the Personal Papers in the Manuscript Collections of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society, and was edited by Grace Lee Nute and Gertrude W.
                    Ackermann. It included descriptions of 455 groups of papers. The present Guide
                    includes the personal papers that have been catalogued since 1935 and other items and collections
                    not included in the first one. That the second Guide is regarded as a continuation
                    of the first is evidenced in the fact that the first item is numbered 456, a continuation of the
                    numbering of the first. A total of 1,645 items is reached in this volume.
            As one leafs through the 173 pages of entries, he is impressed by the scope and variety of the
                    subject matter. Not only are there personal letters, diaries, reminiscences, and family papers, but
                    also business and industrial records of all sorts from domestic soap-making to large corporations,
                    records of various churches, organizations, clubs, legal papers, household accounts, and an
                    autograph collection. Here are materials out of which can be constructed a comprehensive story of 
                        Minnesota
                     life in all its phases.
            The collection also includes photostats and microfilms of pertinent papers and documents from other
                    collections.
            Obviously much labor and care is going into assembling, arranging, and cataloguing the collections,
                    and an equal care was taken in the preparation of this Guide. The excellent name
                    and subject index (pp. 175–212) will be invaluable to researchers. It might be of value
                    to note here that Lucile Kane, one of the compilers, has prepared for the History
                    News of the American Association for State and Local History (December, 1955) "A Guide
                    for Collectors of Manuscripts," which should be of great assistance to curators of local
                    manuscript collections.
            
                    Indiana Historical Society
                
            Gayle Thornbrough
         
         
         
            
               The Great Experiment. By Frank Thistlethwaite. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1955, pp. xiv, 335. Maps and index. $5.00.)
            This book, written by an English historian, is designed to serve the British undergraduate as
                    "an introduction to the history of the American people." According to the author,
                    the various textbooks in use in 
                        England
                     today do not provide the British student with an adequate point of departure for
                    further study of American history. This is something which he hopes to accomplish with The Great Experiment.
            
            No effort has been made to present a strictly factual account of the development of the 
                        United States
                    . Rather, certain aspects or movements, mainly economic and social in nature, have been
                    selected as being of outstanding importance in the growth of American society since the time of
                    George III. Several chapters deal with "the democratic idea" and its relationship
                    to such things as "the problem of caste," "the immigrant,
                    1880–1921" and "the hegemony of big business,
                    1890–1917." Throughout the book emphasis is placed on the close relationship
                    between American and European (particularly English) history as a result of the "pull of
                    the Atlantic." After the American Revolution, on the other hand, the "pull of the
                    continent" became ever stronger, and as the westward movement continued a new
                    "mobile society" developed in America.
            Thistlethwaite discusses the growth of this new society, and attempts to explain to his British
                    readers just how and why it is so different from the European society which, in a sense, gave birth
                    to it. Perhaps the American concept of democracy and liberty, as actually practiced and advocated in
                    the 
                        United States
                    , may be described as "the great experiment" of which the author
                    speaks. Seeking to define this experiment, Thistlethwaite uses a sentence over 200 words in length
                    (pp. 319–320).
            
               The Great Experiment is a very interesting and scholarly book, although it may
                    overshoot the audience for which it was intended. Those students who have little or no background in
                    American history perhaps will find it difficult to understand because of the many references to
                    specific events which only could be mentioned, but not explained. The material is presented in a
                    forthright, unbiased manner. It seems to this reviewer that what errors may appear are  mainly unavoidable sins of omission rather than sins of commission. It
                    is unfortunate that the author did not see fit to include a bibliography. While it is unlikely that
                    this book will have a large audience in this country, American readers would be interested in what
                    British students are being told about us as a nation.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert A. Lindemann
         
         
         
            NOTES AND COMMENTS
            The opening number of The 
                            Hanover
                         Forum under date of December, 1954, has been received. Professor Richard F.
                    Grabau is the editor of this "semi-annual journal published by the Faculty of 
                        Hanover
                     College" under the sponsorship of the 
                        Hanover
                     chapter of the American Association of University Professors. The Forum is one of the first-fruits of a fund for " 'Grants for Research and
                    Creative Activity at 
                        Hanover
                     College' " which was established in 1954. The initial issue includes
                    an interesting article by Professor Howard L. Binkley entitled: "Water Route From the
                    Midwest to the World: The St. Lawrence Seaway." Subscriptions $1.50 per annum.
            During April, 1954, there appeared the first number of a new quarterly known as Ethnohistory, edited by Professor Erminie W. Voegelin, Indiana University. According to
                    the issue for Summer, 1955: "ETHNOHISTORY is a quarterly journal devoted to original
                    research in the documentary history of the culture and movements of primitive peoples, and related
                    problems of broader scope." Professor Dwight Smith, of Miami University, is the book review
                    editor. Subscriptions $2.00 per annum or $2.50 for those wishing to receive a
                    related Newsletter.
            A copy of the Summer, 1955, issue of Midwest Folklore has also been received,
                    numbered Volume V, Number 2, and edited by Professor W. Edson Richmond, Indiana University.
                    Subscriptions $3.00 per annum or $2.50 if made through treasurers of
                    co-operating folklore societies.
            D.F.C.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
