
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 73, Issue 4, pages 251-354. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:73+issue:4+year:1977&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Capehart Cornfield Conference and the Election of 1938: Homer E. Capehart's Entry
                    into Politics
            
                    William B. Pickett
                    ∗
                
            The Cornfield Conference of 1938, held on Homer E. Capehart's farm in southern Indiana,
                    demonstrated a new unity and purpose in the national Republican party and marked the beginning of a
                    more conservative era in American politics.1 It was also a turning point for
                    Capehart. From that moment on he devoted much of his time to selling both the Republican party and
                    himself as the embodiment of its ideals. These activities culminated in his election in 1944 to the 
                        United States
                     Senate where he remained for three terms, longer than any Hoosier Republican before
                    him.
            Capehart personified the success story of the American dream. As the son of a frugal Indiana farmer
                    he experienced strong doses of family affection, Christian teaching, and back-breaking work on a
                    small farm in 
                        Pike County
                     and in 
                        Daviess County
                     where his family moved to a tenant farm when Capehart was thirteen years old. His
                    childhood instilled in him a restless drive to succeed. Although his formal education stopped with
                    his graduation from high school in 1916, Capehart continued to learn. As a young 
                  
                     ∗ William B. Pickett is associate professor of history at
                            Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, 
                                Terre Haute
                            . All photographs are courtesy of the author.
                  
                     1 For the Cornfield Conference as symbol of the conservative
                            Republican resurgence see Joseph W. Martin, My First Fifty Years in
                            Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 82; "G.O.P. Picnic," Newsweek,
                            XXXVIII (September 5, 1938), 8–9; 
                                Milton
                             Plesur, "The Republican Congressional Comeback of 1938," Review of Politics, XXIV (October, 1962), 525, 542, 554–55;
                            "The Republican Party: Up from the Grave," Fortune, XX
                            (August, 1939), 33–34. Ultimately, this resurgence led to the development of a
                            bipartisan congressional coalition of conservative Democrats and Republicans that gained
                            control of Congress in 1947. Historian James MacGregor Burns labeled the coalition the
                            Congressional party. James MacGregor Burns, The Deadlock of Democracy:
                                Four-Party Politics in America (Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1967), 241. See also Samuel
                            Lubell, The Future of American Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 195, 219.
               
                    
                    
                  HOMER E. CAPEHART, CA. 1940
               
                     baking powder huckster and later as an army supply sergeant
                    during World War I, he gained self confidence. Following the war he sold farm implements and
                    commercial popcorn and peanut toasting machines, and in 1927 he founded the Cape-hart Automatic
                    Phonograph Corporation in 
                  Huntington, Indiana
               . The company manufactured coin operated phonographs
                    for use in commercial locations such as sweet shops, drug stores, and dance halls—the
                    first such devices with the capacity to play twenty-eight records continuously, automatically
                    turning each one over to play the other side. Renamed the Capehart Corporation, the company moved to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     where it produced an expensive record player for use in fashionable homes, yachts, and
                        hotels.2
            
            The world wide business collapse which followed the Wall Street crash of 1929 temporarily shelved
                    Capehart's career as an entrepreneur. The Capehart Corporation had been expanding
                    production in 1932 when a drop in sales, a decision to stop dividend payments, and subsequent
                    disagreement with his board of directors—a group which held the controlling preferred
                    stock—resulted in Capehart's removal as president and loss of all equity in his
                    own company. Drawing upon his experience as a successful salesman and business promoter, Capehart
                    decided that the Depression had occurred because Americans, like his board of directors at the
                    Capehart Corporation, had become needlessly pessimistic. What the country needed, he thought, was an
                    attitude of optimism, individual self discipline, and willingness to produce and to sell goods.3
            
            It was this simple, even naive, set of beliefs and his enormous determination that Capehart took to
                    Farny Wurlitzer, chief executive of the Rudolph Wurlitzer Company in North 
                  Tonawanda, New
                    York
               , in the summer of 1934. Capehart convinced Wurlitzer that he could lift
                    the 
                        New York
                     company out of its desperate financial difficulties. Wurlitzer hired Capehart, and in
                    four years Capehart fulfilled his promise. He supervised the manufacture and sale of the colorful
                    and popular Wurlitzer juke boxes of the 1930s— activities which made Wurlitzer prosperous
                    and made Capehart a millionaire. With some of his new wealth Capehart in 1936 had the satisfaction
                    of purchasing several acres of 
                  
                     2 For Capehart's childhood and business experience see
                            William B. Pickett, "Homer E. Capehart: The Making of a Hoosier Senator"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1974), 1–107.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 3, 1930.
               
                     farm land in 
                        Daviess County
                     next to the Graham Farms where at age fourteen he had helped his father plow.
            The Great Depression and President Franklin D. Roosevelt's faltering response to it turned
                    Capehart to politics.4 There is no available evidence that he was ambitious for
                    political office in 1938. A restless, energetic man who believed in himself, he enjoyed trying new
                    things, making new opportunities for himself. He was happily married, the father of three children,
                    comfortably rich from his earnings as vice-president and general sales manager of the Wurlitzer
                    factory in North 
                        Tonawanda
                    , and pleased with his accomplishments. By 1938 he had begun considering the reasons for
                    his success and how to use his new wealth. Convinced that he had demonstrated the value of optimism,
                    individualism, and aggressive self interest in his own business activities, he concluded that if he
                    could apply these qualities to the nation's business the Depression might soon be over. The
                    political opposition to the New Deal closely reflected his views: he became active in the Republican
                        party.5
            
            Capehart's entry into politics coincided with the declining popularity of Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt and the New Deal. This drop in public esteem began as early as February, 1937, when the
                    president's plan to reorganize the Supreme Court rallied opposition.6
                    Another blow came in the late summer of 1937 with a drop in stock prices and a dramatic increase in
                    unemployment. Businessmen across the nation flooded the White House with telegrams demanding that
                    the president do something about the situation. In response the administration opened an attack
                    against monopolists and profiteers, blaming them for the slump.7 Ignoring the
                    advice of John Maynard Keynes that if the president antagonized businessmen "the
                    nation's burden will not get carried to market; and in the end, public opinion will veer
                    their way," Roosevelt turned for support to the impending congressional election.
                    Committing one of the major political blunders of his career, 
                  
                     4 For Capehart's few early contacts with politics see Homer
                            E. Capehart, Manuscript Memoir, 1943, Capehart Papers (Board of Trade Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Homer E. Capehart, tapes 4, 6, Oral History Project (Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); 
                                Washington
                             (Indiana) Herald, August 30, 1938; 
                                Buffalo
                            
                            Evening News, August 12, 19, 1937; Interviews with Capehart, December 16,
                            1971, and April 25, 1972, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     5 Capehart, Manuscript Memoir, 188. For Capehart's criticisms
                            of the New Deal see Christian Science Monitor, August 27, 1938.
                  
                     6 James MacGregor Burns, Roosevelt: The Lion and the
                            Fox (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 307; Plesur, "Republican Comeback," 539.
                  
                     7 Burns, Roosevelt, 320, 326–27.
               
                     he embarked on an attempt to prevent reelection of a number of
                    senators of his own party who had opposed his moves.8
            
            Capehart, who may have sensed the Democratic weakness, was ready to join the fight. But it was a
                    pragmatic businessman's opposition to the New Deal rather than partisan Republicanism which
                    moved him. He had decided that the economy was going back into a slump and that people
                    "were losing confidence in their government." He contended that neither party was
                    offering the correct solution—the New Deal providing security without opportunity, the
                    opposition party, as he phrased it later, proposing "opportunity without
                        security."9
            
            Capehart's decision to associate himself with the GOP was fortunate for the party:
                    Republicans needed all the support they could find if they were to exploit the difficulties of the
                    New Deal. In the 1936 election Democrats won the biggest presidential plurality in history, their
                    largest Senate majority since 1869, and their largest House majority since 1855. So badly were
                    Republicans shaken by the election that the editors of Fortune suggested that the
                    party go out of existence. Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, a leading Republican conservative, made the
                    astonishing remark in September, 1937, that he felt partly labels were not particularly important.
                    Newly elected national Republican chairman John D. M. Hamilton warned that Republicans had to
                    realize "that they have lost the pulse of the people, the confidence of the great masses of
                        Americans."10 To develop new issues upon which to base the 1938
                    campaign, party leaders set up a Republican program committee, chaired by Glenn Frank, former editor
                    of Century Magazine, recently ousted president of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and possible dark horse presidential candidate.11
            
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., 332. See also ibid., 360.
               
                  9 Capehart, Manuscript Memoir, 188.
               
                  10
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, January 17, 1937, p. 9, quoted in Donald Bruce Johnson, The Republican Party and Wendell Willkie (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1960), 12–13. See also ibid., 15; Plesur,
                        "Republican Comeback," 527–28, 532; James T. Patterson, Congressional Conservatism and the New Deal (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1967), 80–81; "The Republican Party: Up from the
                        Grave," 97.
               
                  11 Johnson, Republican Party, 15, 20–21;
                        Patterson, Congressional Conservatism, 82, 202. Besides economy, sound
                        finance, isolationism, and opposition to the New Deal, Republicans looked for possible campaign
                        issues in Senator Arthur Vandenberg's "cash and carry" neutrality
                        bill, his "pay-as-you-go" amendment to the Social Security Act, rejection of
                        Reciprocal Trade Agreements, policing the "maladministration of relief
                        appropriations," "protection of the employer as well as the employee in labor
                        relations," and "revision of the Wagner Act" in response to the
                        sit-down strikes. Johnson, Republican Party, 19. So also Plesur,
                        "Republican Comeback," 533; Time (December 27, 1937),
                    12.
            
            
            In the summer of 1938 Capehart became one of 215 members of the Frank committee.12 The committee set out to make an "honest and objective audit of the New
                    Deal," to "rethink, restate, and reinterpret to the nation the political and
                    economic philosophy" of the Republican party, and to "create a comprehensive
                    report of policy."13 In a progress report made in August, 1938, the
                    committee warned of a possible breakdown in the nation's economy and the
                    "disintegration of responsible and effective government." The party, it said
                    rather ambiguously, needed both to recognize its obligation to "youth and age"
                    through voluntary social and government action and to determine the "stimulations,
                    regulations, and freedoms" that will allow for sustained productivity.14 Capehart, an excellent listener and a fast learner, was alert to the possibility that such
                    new formulations might provide an important new ingredient for the platform of the nearly moribund
                        GOP.15
            
            The Frank committee's work stirred such controversy in the party that the committee decided
                    not to publish a final report and changed its purpose from preparing a statement of Republican
                    policy to making a more general study of the needs and desires of the American people.16 The confusion within Republican councils was thoroughly evident in the failure of the
                    Frank committee. The party clearly had an opportunity because of the troubles of the Democrats but
                    did not know how to use the moment to advantage. Capehart, a member of the subcommittee on finance,
                    had little say in committee decisions and was not pleased with the indecisive outcome.17
            
            
               
                  12 Membership List of the Republican Program Committee, OF 856, File:
                        "Republican Party, 1935–1945," Franklin D. Roosevelt Papers
                        (Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                            New York
                        ).
               
                  13 Malcolm Moos, The Republicans: A History of Their
                        Party (
                            New York
                        , 1956), 405.
               
                  14 Quoted in Ronald Bridges, "The Republican Program
                        Committee," Public Opinion Quarterly, III (April, 1939),
                        302–303.
               
                  15 The ideas which Capehart borrowed from Frank (and probably from 
                            Hamilton
                        ) appeared in his Cornfield Conference address "Dealing with the Relief
                        Problem," August 27, 1938, Box 72, Capehart Manuscripts (Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  16 Moos, The Republicans, 405; Saturday
                            Evening Post, CCXI (December 10, 1938), 22.
               
                  17 Johnson, Republican Party, 24; Capehart, Manuscript
                        Memoir, 189; Interview with Capehart, April 25, 1972. Capehart and Indiana Republican Chairman
                        Arch N. Bobbitt may have attended the 
                            Evanston
                         meeting together. Arch N. Bobbitt, tape 1, Oral History Project (Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ).
            
            
            
               CAPEHART SUPERVISING CONSTRUCTION OF THE SPEAKERS PLATFORM
            
            
            The Hoosier Republican party, as Capehart had already discovered, was in no less disarray than its
                    national organization. Indiana had a history of strong two-party competition, but Paul V.
                    McNutt's entry into the governor's office in 1933 marked a new dominance for the
                    Democratic party. McNutt pushed through the Reorganization Act of 1933 which centralized the
                    administration of state government and placed almost complete control of expenditures and patronage
                    in his hands.18 Indiana Democrats added to their power through administration of
                    such relief programs as the Works Progress Administration, the Public Works Administration, and farm
                    subsidy payments. By the mid-1930s the party had become relatively prosperous from McNutt's
                    famous "two per cent club," which collected that amount annually from the salaries
                    of state patronage job holders.19 During these years Hoosier Republicans had
                    disintegrated into factions occupied with squabbles for control of the state organization and
                    appointments to the national committee. The rank-and-file was apathetic. Older members wanted a
                    return of the golden years of Coolidge and continued their support for former Senator James E.
                    Watson —pro-business spokesman for Indiana Republicans for over sixteen years and Senate
                    majority leader during the Hoover administration.20 By early 1938 a dispute over
                    who would be the next state chairman had caused 
                        Muncie
                     manufacturer George A. Ball to resign as national committeeman, and it was uncertain
                    where the state committee would find money for the upcoming congressional campaign.21
            
            Fortunately for the Indiana GOP, Hoosier Democrats began experiencing even greater difficulties in
                    1937. Roosevelt's plan to increase the number of justices on the Supreme Court (which had
                    become a major obstacle to New Deal reforms) and the apparent failure of his economic program in
                    mid-1937 caused serious cracks in the Hoosier Democratic 
                  
                     18 Frank J. Hunger, "Two Party Politics in the State of
                            Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Political Science, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 1955), 7, 10–12; James T. Patterson, The
                                New Deal and the States: Federalism in Transition (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1969), 134.
                  
                     19 Patterson, The New Deal, 135; 
                                Peru
                             (Indiana) Daily Tribune, September 23, 1938.
                  
                     20 James Eli Watson, As I Knew Them: Memoirs of James E.
                                Watson, Former 
                                    United States
                                 Senator from Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), 254–56; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonweath (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 484; Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                1774-1971 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1971), 1889.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Peru
                            
                            Daily Tribune, September 23, 1938.
               
                     machine, by that time under the leadership of McNutt's
                    protégé, Governor Clifford M. Townsend. The first break occurred when the
                    independent minded Democratic Senator Frederick 
                        Van
                     Nuys of Indiana became one of ten senators who signed the majority report against
                    Roosevelt's Supreme Court measure. Governor Townsend went to 
                        Washington
                    , and after conferring with Roosevelt told the press from the White House steps that he
                    did not know who would be the 1938 Democratic nominee for the 
                        United States
                     Senate from Indiana. "There is nothing certain," Townsend remarked,
                    "except that it will not be Senator 
                        Van
                     Nuys."22 From that moment the Democrats were in a turmoil.
                    Indiana leaders pressed for party harmony, but they could not find a suitable alternative to 
                        Van
                     Nuys, who had decided to run for reelection to the Senate against the wishes of the
                    party if necessary.23 The Republicans had their first good chance for a comeback
                    since the onset of the New Deal.
            Acting on his desire to help revitalize the Republican party and the nation's economy,
                    Capehart in February, 1938, suggested a mid-term Republican conference to be held on his 
                        Daviess County
                     farm in the following August.24 Recalling a successful company
                    picnic which he had organized the previous year at North 
                        Tonawanda
                    —a festive celebration for Wurlitzer juke box salesmen and their
                    wives—Capehart presented the plan for a cornfield rally to State Republican Chairman Arch
                        Bobbitt.25 Bobbitt told Capehart that the party was down, that workers were
                    discouraged, and that he had been hoping for a statewide meeting of precinct committeemen and women.
                    Capehart replied, "Why not have a clambake on my farm?"26 And
                    he gave Bobbitt a contribution check for the state GOP—a check Bobbitt remembers as
                    "Much larger than I had received from anybody for a long 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 17, 1937, quoted in Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 483. See also Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                            274.
                  
                     23 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 485.
                  
                     24 George E. Gill, "Brief History of the Packard
                            Manufacturing Corporation," p. 60 (unpublished manuscript, 1944), Capehart Papers;
                            Capehart, tape 10, Oral History Project. That the conference was not a new idea was shown by
                            the newspaper article which called it "one of the largest political gatherings
                            since the famous farm barbeque given by Dr. Arthur Nelson at Bundston, Mo., in the 1924
                            presidential campaign." 
                                Kansas City
                            
                            Star, October 4, 1938.
                  
                     25 Capehart, tape 4, Oral History Project; Capehart, Manuscript
                            Memoir, 189; Interview with William F. Merchant, December 11, 1970, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                  
                     26 Bobbitt, tape 1, Oral History Project.
               
                    
                    
                  SOME TWENTY THOUSAND REPUBLICAN FUNCTIONARIES …
               
                    
                  … MINGLED AND MET IN A CIRCUS ATMOSPHERE …
               
                    
                  … AND ATE AT TABLES SPREAD WITH BARBECUED CHICKEN, STEAMED CLAMS, AND CORN ON THE
                            COB.
               
                     time."27 The motives were
                    uncomplicated, the approach spontaneous and direct. Before it was over Capehart had personally paid
                    out some $25,000.28
            
            In the months following the meeting with Bobbitt Capehart's interest in the party and
                    participation on the Frank committee attracted the attention of the Republican leadership. In July
                    National Chairman 
                        Hamilton
                     announced that a Hoosier Republican rally to be held on August 27 at the Capehart farm
                    in 
                        Daviess County
                     would open the GOP national congressional election campaign.29 To
                    give party leaders an opportunity to meet and discuss problems, 
                        Hamilton
                     arranged for attendance of Representative Joseph W. Martin, chairman of the Republican
                    congressional campaign committee; Capehart's recent acquaintance, Glenn Frank; and Marion
                    E. Martin, assistant chairman of the national committee in charge of women's activities.
                    Former Senator James W. Wadsworth of 
                        New York
                     agreed to give the keynote address, and invitations went to national committee members,
                    state chairmen, senatorial, congressional, and gubernatorial candidates in twelve midwestern and
                    plains states.30 Capehart was to be general chairman.31
            
            When asked later how his suggestion had become so important, Capehart responded in his typical
                    salesman's hyperbole: "I handled it exactly like I'd have handled the
                    introduction of a new musical instrument or an automobile or any new product …. Keep
                    writing your name in the sky and if you've got a good product it will be successful, it
                        
                  
                     27
                            Ibid. See also Interview with Bobbitt, August 1, 1972,
                                    
                        Indianapolis; Washington
                     
                            Herald, August 5, 1938. The GOP state treasurer at the time remembers the
                            check to have been between two and three hundred dollars. Felix McWhirter, tape 1, Oral
                            History Project (Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). For the sad financial condition of the Hoosier GOP as it affected senatorial
                            candidate Raymond E. Willis see Willis to Hilton P. Hornaday, June 13, 1938, Box 78, Willis
                            Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Willis to John G. Town-send, Jr., July 29, 1938, ibid.
                  
                  
                     28 After personally underwriting the finances for the affair to a
                            total cost of at least $25,000, Capehart, as general sales manager for Wurlitzer,
                            appealed to his regional managers for donations. Their loyal response brought an additional
                            ten or fifteen thousand dollars. McWhirter, tape 1, Oral History Project; Merchant, tape 1,
                            Oral History Project (Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Interview with Capehart, December 16, 1971; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1938.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 2, 1938.
                  
                     30 Arthur H. Vandenberg to A. K. Remmel, August 1, 1938, Willis to
                            Robert A. Taft, August 8, 1938, Willis Papers; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Times-Star, August 9, 1938.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 25, 1938.
               
                     will draw people to it and they'll buy
                        it."32 There were, of course, other reasons; the opportunities
                    offered by the Democrats' problems, the need of the Republican party for an attractive
                    program and new money, plus the facts that Cape-hart made good news copy and had experience staging
                    successful sales conventions. Early in July the state Republican committee began publishing advances
                    about the Cornfield Conference and its host, who personified the farmboy to riches aspect of the
                    American dream. "A country that permits a poor boy to work his way up is good enough for
                    me," Capehart would say. "If they [presumably the New Deal administrators] keep on
                    monkeying with it, they're going to make it impossible for a kid to do what I have
                        done."33 Reporters enjoyed pointing out the unity in
                    Cape-hart's progress from boyhood on a neighboring farm to the realization of his dream to
                    own an "agricultural showplace."34 The amusement industry
                    periodical, Billboard magazine, reported: "Capehart plans to
                    ‘put up the biggest circus tent ever and show the boys some good entertainment in the way
                    of circus acts’ …. His able showmanship in presenting this type of affair is
                    well-known and is attested to by thousands of coin-machine operators and distributors."35
            
            Early on the morning of August 26 the site of the conference on Capehart's farm was ready.
                    Twenty-eight blue and white striped tents were arranged according to Capehart's blueprint
                    on a 120 acre freshly mowed alfalfa field bordered on the east by the Big Four Railroad tracks and
                    on the south by a county road. Corn had grown in the field in other years, and, for those who would
                    insist on accuracy, an adjacent field was filled with green eared stalks in full tassle. The large
                    tent would accommodate ten thousand people seated at tables. There were tents for each of the twelve
                    Indiana district Republican delegations, four for kitchens, one for headquarters, and one each for
                    radio broadcasters, the press, and Republican literature. Small tents sheltered the first aid 
                  
                     32 Capehart, tape 10, Oral History Project.
                  
                     33
                            Christian Science Monitor, August 27, 1938.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 7, 1938.
                  
                     35
                            Billboard, August 20, 1938, p. 66; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star columnist Maurice Early called the proposed rally a Republican
                            "CCC," a pointedly inappropriate comparison with the Civilian Conservation
                            Corps, a well known New Deal work project. He meant, of course, the "Capehart
                            Cornfield Conference." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 25, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  GOP NATIONAL CHAIRMAN JOHN D. M. HAMILTON AT THE CORNFIELD CONFERENCE
                station and soft drink concessions. The parking area could hold thousands of cars.36
            
            GOP festivities began that morning in 
                        Gary
                    , where the pied piper of the affair, the Wurlitzer Military Band—a hundred
                    piece ensemble which had won the "best band in the 
                        United States
                     award" at the national band contest in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1937—left their headquarters on a zigzag southward route. Riding in three
                    sign covered buses, the band traveled from 
                        Gary
                     to the Capehart farm, stopping for brief concerts in 
                  South Bend, Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, Bloomington
               , and eight other communities. At 
                        Indianapolis
                     a crowd of placard carrying Republicans and a huge live elephant rented from a circus
                    met the band on Monument Circle and held a pep rally. Arriving that evening at the Capehart farm,
                    band members barely had time to eat before they were again playing a two and a half hour concert for
                    a crowd of fifteen thousand. After the concert thousands of citizens from miles 
                  
                     36 Capehart, "Details of the Cornfield Conference,"
                            Indiana State Central Committee Handout, July 2, 1938, Capehart Manuscripts; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1938; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 2, August 25, 1938. The Cornfield Conference loudspeaker and
                            amplification system were from Wurlitzer. 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  CAPEHART WELCOMES HAMILTON TO THE CORNFIELD CONFERENCE
                around listened as Frank and 
                        United States
                     Senate candidate Raymond E. Willis gave the opening addresses of the Cornfield
                        Conference.37 Meanwhile in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , politicos from the thirteen "breadbasket states" gathered at the 
                        Columbia
                     Club to meet national leaders and plan strategy for the election. The busy senatorial
                    candidate from 
                        Ohio
                    , Robert A. Taft, found time to hurry to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to meet the other Republican candidates and get "what advice I could from John
                    Hamilton, Joe Martin and Senator [John G.] Townsend, [Jr.]."38
            
            The next morning, August 27, 1938, a summer haze veiled the sun's first rays, and a gentle
                    cooling breeze caused the blue and white canvas tents on the Capehart farm to sway gently. Cooks and
                    waiters were at work steaming clams and barbecuing chickens over huge charcoal pits in the four
                    kitchen tents. Out on the road Capehart's 
                        Daviess
                    
                    
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 25, 1938; Interview with Capehart, July 22, 1972, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     38 Taft to Willis, August 28, 1938, Willis Papers. See also John
                            Hamilton to Taft, August 25, 1938, Box 50, File: "Political 1938, Republican
                            National Committee," Robert A. Taft Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); Carrolton (
                                Ohio
                            ) Standard, September 8, 1938.
               
                     County neighbors gave parking directions to the first of the
                    thousands of cars they would handle that day.39 A short time later special
                    trains began to arrive, including one from 
                        New York
                    , carrying Capehart's associates from North 
                        Tonawanda
                     and 
                        Buffalo
                    .40
            
            By midmorning lines of automobiles were stirring clouds of dust as they converged on the parking
                    area. More visitors arrived by special train.41 When Capehart rang the noon
                    dinner bell, his guests—twenty thousand precinct committeemen and county chairmen and
                    their families and dignitaries from out of state—ate at tables filled with barbecued
                    chicken, relishes, mashed potatoes and country gravy, corn on the cob, watermelon, rolls and butter,
                    iced tea, and coffee. The main tent resounded with clinking silver and the din of midwestern
                    politicians devouring more than five thousand chickens, seventy thousand steamed clams, and three
                    tons of corn on the cob. Outside, shuttle trains from 
                        Petersburg
                     and Evans- ville to the south and 
                        Terre Haute
                     to the north arrived with more party faithful and the curious who wanted to see a real
                    Indian chief, watch stuntmen, and listen to yodelers, guitar players, a German band, the Wurlitzer
                    Military Band, and thirty-two individual drum and bugle corps from the surrounding area.42 Overseeing this "Homeric feast" (as Time
                    magazine called it) was the tireless Capehart in floppy canvas sun hat, white long sleeved shirt,
                    long checked tie, tan cotton trousers, and cigar in the corner of his mouth. Reporters observed him
                    in perpetual motion, shaking hands with 
                        Hamilton
                    , standing with arms around Willis and Frank, talking with his assistants. No detail was
                    to minor for his concern, no county committeeman too unimportant for his warm greeting and
                    handshake. He even supervised the decoration of the speakers' rostrum.43
            
            When the delegates had finished lunch, Republican State Chairman Bobbitt opened the public meeting
                    from the platform 
                  
                     39 Capehart, "Details of the Cornfield Conference"; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 28, 1938.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Buffalo
                            
                            Courier-Express, August 27, 1938.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 25, 1938.
                  
                     42
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1938; Spokane (
                                Washington
                            ) Spokesman Review, August 28, 1938; "G.O.P.
                            Picnic," 8–9; "Homeric Feast," Time,
                            XXXII (September 5, 1938), 12; Interview with Capehart, July 22, 1972; Plesur,
                            "Republican Comeback," 542.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            Record, August 29, 1938; Christian Science Monitor,
                            August 29, 1938; 
                                New York
                            
                            Herald Tribune, September 4, 1938; Scrap-books of the Capehart Cornfield
                            Conference (Capehart Farms, 
                        Washington,
                                    Indiana
                     ); 
                                Dayton
                             (
                                Ohio
                            ) News, August 27, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. GLENN FRANK ADDRESSES THE CORNFIELD CONFERENCE
                at the middle of the main tent where, among others, former Senator Watson sat. As late as
                    1936 Watson still believed Coolidge instead of Hoover should have been the party candidate in 1928.
                    He watched quietly now as more youthful and energetic GOP members sought to adapt the party to the
                    new circumstances of American life.44 Representative Charles A. Halleck,
                    Indiana's only Republican member of the House of Representatives, introduced each speaker
                    until 
                        Hamilton
                    , Wadsworth, Willis, Capehart, and five other party officials had spoken. The only hitch
                    was when Wadsworth went over his allotted time, and Halleck had to ask him to hurry up and
                        finish.45
            
            Attacks on the New Deal by Hamilton and Wadsworth dominated the headlines the next day. 
                        Hamilton
                    's increasingly familiar Republican accusations charged that President
                    Roosevelt was "resorting to the ‘Russian technique’ of staging a
                    purge in order to ‘divert our attention from the failures 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 27, 1938; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 28, 1938; Watson, As I Knew Them,
                            254–56, 259–61.
                  
                     45 Charles A. Halleck to Willis, September 2, 1938, Willis Papers; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 28, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  CAPEHART AND SENATOR RAYMOND WILLIS
                of the New Deal’ "and that a president who attempted to alter the
                    structure of the Supreme Court and who used extravagant federal spending to regiment the citizens
                    and render them dependent upon the executive branch—"trying to substitute
                    personal government for the ‘American Way’ " —was to blame
                    for the loss of business confidence which had brought on the current recession.46 The words "purge" and "bribery," the themes of the day,
                    received a momentous response from the crowd. The conservative Willis decried the enormous increase
                    in farm imports and the resulting lowering of demand and prices to a low of fifty-one cents a bushel
                    for corn.47 Playing on popular isolationist sentiment, especially among voters
                    of German ancestry, he stated his opposition "to intervention in old world affairs in any
                        form."48
            
            While many Hoosier Republicans still looked to Watson and the Old Guard for leadership on national
                    issues, the pragmatic Capehart proposed a new Republican response to 
                  
                     46 For quote about "Russian technique" see 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 4, 1938; for quote about "personal
                            government" see ibid., August 28, 1938. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 28, 1938.
                  
                     47 For rural protectionism see Plesur, "Republican
                            Comeback," 548–49.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 28, 1938.
               
                     the nation's altered, in some ways desperate,
                    circumstances. Unlike the other speakers, Capehart wisely addressed the concerns of a minority party
                    seeking a return to power when over twelve million Americans were unemployed and twenty million were
                    receiving public relief money.49 As early as 1930 President Hoover had called
                    for helping people in honest difficulties.50 Six years later Landon had promised
                    to continue government relief, if elected, and the Frank committee had called for Republican
                    responsibility to "youth and age."51 Capehart now charged that
                    "Roosevelt has spellbound his believers into feeling that the Republican Party is
                    interested in only … the reduction of taxes; the piling up of profit for private
                    enterprise and the protection and ownership of property … that when Republicans get into
                    power again they will permit untold suffering and starvation and will NOT take care of the
                    unemployed and will champion NO social legislation." He rejected this reasoning and called
                    for a program to rally Americans dissatisfied with "the Roosevelt New Deal"
                    because it had deprived them of "the chance to live as their fathers, grandfathers and
                    great-grandfathers had lived."52 Then, speaking from his own
                    experience, he asserted that every American boy and girl desired to own a home, a business, or at
                    least to have a position of responsibility in private industry. But Capehart had also decided that
                    Republicans must compromise with the New Deal, accepting its proposition that every person has a
                    right to the minimum necessities of life. "The Republican Party," he affirmed,
                    "must have the courage to say to the people of America who continue unemployed through no
                    fault of their own, that it will guarantee to them adequate and intelligent relief in whatever form
                    is most appropriate."53 In these few words he indicated his pragmatic
                    willingness to support those facets of the New Deal which had won overwhelming public acceptance.
                    And he exposed the backwardness of the 1936 national Republican platform which had condemned
                    unemployment insurance and old age annuities provided by the Social 
                  
                     49 For the views of the national Republican leaders and the wisdom of
                            Capehart's position see Moos, The Republicans, 400; Plesur,
                            "Republican Comeback," 528–29; Johnson, Republican
                                Party, 19.
                  
                     50 Herbert C. Hoover, Addresses Upon the American Road,
                                1933–1938 (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 186.
                  
                     51 Moos, The Republicans, 399.
                  
                     52 Capehart, "Dealing with the Relief Problem,"
                            Capehart Manuscripts.
                  
                            53
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     Security Act.54 He also acted to alleviate
                    Landon's greatest failure of political imagination: the inability to project a Republican
                    vision of a society with equal opportunity for men of ability and desire.55
            
            Capehart answered the objections of those who would accuse him of simply borrowing the New Deal
                    program by saying that his Republican program would eliminate the notorious Rooseveltian
                    bureaucratic inefficiency—the jungle of "red tape, politics, waste and stupid
                    bungling, … favoritism and graft." And he hit the New Deal's most
                    serious economic failure by emphasizing that the Republican party would "dedicate its every
                    act and its very life to the end that these millions of people who have been able to obtain only
                    government relief employment will be given an opportunity for real employment in private
                    industry—and soon !"56 Looking toward a new American
                    industrial society which recognized the place of the workers—the importance of their
                    morale and their position as consumers—he announced a view rare indeed among Republican
                    businessmen: "Business interests in this country realize that their first responsibility is
                    to labor, and their second responsibility is to their stockholders. If they take care of their
                    responsibility to labor, then labor will take care of their responsibility to the stockholders. It
                    is labor which consumes the largest part of that which the business interests create."57
            
            Capehart's statements, although generally well received by the crowd, went considerably
                    beyond his original businessman's emphasis on optimism, individualism, and aggressive self
                    interest. They reflected new concerns derived from his conversations with people such as Frank and 
                        Hamilton
                    . Courageous and useful in their appeal to voters who worried that the GOP was a
                    "do-nothing" party, Capehart's remarks were sure to cause party dissent.
                    One reporter commented upon Capehart's "apparent heresy to Old Guard
                    doctrine" which "obviously disconcerted leaders seated on the speakers'
                    platform, including chairman 
                        Hamilton
                     and Representative Martin."58 His concluding remarks
                    reassured the assembled 
                  
                     54 Moos, The Republicans, 398; Interview with
                            Capehart, April 25, 1972.
                  
                     55 Moos, The Republicans, 400.
                  
                     56 Capehart, "Dealing with Relief Problem," Capehart
                            Manuscripts.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid. See also Plesur, "Republican Comeback," 547;
                            Johnson, Republican Party, 19; Thomas C. Cochran, The Inner
                                Revolution: Essays on the Social Sciences in History (
                                New York
                            , 1964), 160.
                  
                     58 Newspaper clipping dated August 28, 1938, Capehart
                        Manuscripts.
               
                     partisans of his loyalty by blending with the themes of the
                    previous speakers. He identified Republicanism with Americanism. Asserting that only employment in
                    private industry was truly "American," that "we are not yet a Communistic
                    country, nor a Socialistic country, nor a Nazi country, nor a Fascist country," he drew his
                    final distinction. "We cannot live under two systems of government," he said,
                    "the American system and the New Deal experiment."59
            
            Capehart's maiden political address, perhaps the most thoughtful of the day and an
                    oratorical success, revealed certain weaknesses. Like the unpublished Frank committee report it
                    confronted the perennial problem of modern industrial societies—how to provide both
                    economic security and incentives to work and produce. But Capehart's speech contained no
                    proposals about how relief could be better administered and no specific program for obtaining the
                    expansion of private enterprise necessary to eliminate unemployment and the need for public relief.
                    Taking a position which he would in later years label "political realism," he
                    endorsed the best features both of the experiment he condemned and of the pre-Depression Republican
                    policies under which the 
                        United States
                     had achieved industrial leadership of the world. No more than had Landon did Capehart
                    tell how a Republican political leadership would bring the economic recovery necessary to American
                    capitalism, but like Landon and Hoover he expressed his eternal optimism that it could.60 Finally, his resort to partisan name calling, while perhaps politically
                    useful, revealed an unfortunate willingness to join the party in its appeal to the blind emotions of
                    the fearful rather than to the constructive proposals of the thoughtful.
            The immediate response was less to Capehart's address, however, than to the fact that the
                    Republican rally had taken place. No one could deny the national impact of the Capehart Cornfield
                    Conference. It made front page news in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, and local newspapers from Pawhuska, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , to Walla Walla, 
                        Washington
                    , to Concord, 
                        North Carolina
                    . Most papers reflected the sentiments of a 
                        New York
                    
                    Times editorial which suggested "a real elephant under the main tent
                    after all, instead of the skeleton of a prehistorical animal that lost his hide with his shirt in
                        
                  
                     59 Capehart, "Dealing with the Relief Problem," ibid.
                  
                  
                     60 Moos, The Republicans, 416; Interview with
                            Capehart, April 25, 1972.
               
                     1932."61 The 
                        Newark
                    
                    Star Eagle believed that the Republican protest "shows signs of cohesion.
                    A militant minority has spoken with a voice of confidence in its destiny."62 Newspaper coverage was so intense that Charles Michelson, director of publicity for the
                    Democratic National Committee, wrote a special article to play down the affair. Published in
                    newspapers across the country, Michelson's response asked if the five thousand chickens
                    which Republicans consumed at the Capehart picnic had any relation to the two chickens in every pot
                    promised by Hoover. He predicted that the Democrats could stop campaigning and still have a majority
                    of eighty or ninety votes in the House of Representatives after the November election. The
                    "utmost variation" in the Senate, he said, could not involve more than "a
                    seat or two."63
            
            It is impossible to know the effect of the Cornfield Conference upon the national election of 1938,
                    but to Michelson's probable dismay the opponents of the New Deal made important gains in
                    November. The election increased GOP representatives by eighty, from eighty-nine to 169, and the
                    number of Republican senators by eight, from fifteen to twenty-three. Most of the defeated Democrats
                    were liberal New Dealers from industrial sections of the East and Midwest. Some eighty other House
                    Democrats were at best unenthusiastic about the New Deal. Of the sixty-nine Democrats remaining in
                    the Senate as many as thirty were now hostile to Roosevelt's programs.64 Forty-five of the eighty new Republican representatives were from the Midwest. Democratic
                    National Chairman James A. Farley called it "the great turnover."65
            
            In Indiana Capehart's financial support and skills as an impressario gave an energetic boost
                    to the Republican party. After the Cornfield Conference, he campaigned hard for the party. Hoosier
                    Democrats recognized clearly the danger of a resurgent GOP. Meeting at French Lick the day of the
                    Capehart Cornfield Conference, they announced the end of 
                  
                     61
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 29, 1938. See also scrapbooks of the Capehart Cornfield
                            Conference.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Newark
                             (
                                New Jersey
                            ) Star Eagle, September 7, 1938.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Westehester County
                             (
                                New York
                            ) Weekly Press, September 8, 1938.
                  
                     64 Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                            288–90.
                  
                     65 Plesur, "Republican Comeback," 543. See also ibid., 546; Patterson, Congressional Conservatism, 290;
                            Martin, My First Fifty Years, 81–82; Lubell, Future of American Politics, 195; Edward H. Ziegner, "Indiana in National
                            Politics," in Donald F. Carmony, ed., Indiana: A Self-Appraisal (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1966), 41.
               
                     their factional struggle and united behind the candidacy of
                    Senator 
                        Van
                     Nuys.66 In a campaign speaking tour for Willis and other Republican
                    candidates, Capehart continued the drum beat sounded by his Cornfield Conference speech. He attacked
                    government spending, cutting of production in time of scarcity, appeals to class hatred, relief
                    without restored opportunity, and failure to increase farm prices.67 As the
                    election neared, he and Willis repeated their message to almost four thousand Indiana Republican
                    precinct meetings simultaneously in a radio broadcast originating from the Capehart farm.68
            
            Despite Capehart's efforts Willis narrowly lost to 
                        Van
                     Nuys in the November election.69 But Indiana Republicans won seven
                    of twelve congressional races and elected their candidate for secretary of state. The state senate
                    remained Democratic but house Republicans gained a slight majority. The total vote was second
                    largest in Indiana history. Republicans carried every rural congressional district except one and 85
                    percent of the rural counties. In their report to the national chairman state Democratic officials
                    spoke of conservative farmers disillusioned with the crop control program, of the WPA make work
                    programs which helped make farm labor scarce, and of the wages and hour law which hurt businessmen
                    running small factories. The Democrats complained that government leniency toward sit down strikes,
                    government spending programs which antagonized independent voters, and the so called Democratic
                    purge gave the Republicans "effective ammunition" with conservative elements.
                    While they did not mention the Capehart Cornfield Conference, the Democrats prophetically concluded
                    that "if the momentum gained by the Republicans … which the election more or
                    less set in motion is not checked through co-operation by our party, Indiana indeed will be a
                    doubtful state in 1940."70
            
            Perhaps the most tangible result of the Cornfield Conference was to identify Capehart with
                    Republicanism in Indiana 
                  
                     66
                            Christian Science Monitor, August 27, 1938.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 5, 1938; Interview with Capehart, April 25, 1972. For
                            Capehart's assistance to Willis in 1938 see Hornaday to Willis, July 8, 1938,
                            Willis Papers; 
                                Washington
                            
                            Herald, October 28, 1938.
                  
                     68
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 30, 1938.
                  
                     69 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 485.
                  
                     70 Indiana Democratic State Committee, "Result of Indiana
                            Election, 1938," OF 300, Box 86, File: "Farley, 1938, Ind,"
                            Roosevelt Papers.
               
                     and bring him to the national political arena. Democrat
                    Michelson prophesied that the name of Homer Capehart would live "whenever politicians seek
                    a rural refuge."71 Michelson might have been referring to
                    Capehart's talk when he went on to say that Republicans would either adopt some of the New
                    Deal program or continue in the uncomfortable position of backward looking naysayers.72
            
            Almost immediately people began that most fascinating of political games—guessing about
                    Capehart's ambitions. They would not believe he was simply "sick and tired of
                    hearing people complain about the New Deal and do nothing about it." Billboard reported that should Capehart "run as a candidate thousands of admiring
                    coin machine men will be plugging for him to win."73 The 
                        Kansas City
                    
                    Star concluded that Capehart wanted 
                        Hamilton
                    's position as Republican national chairman. The 
                        Columbia City
                     (Indiana) City Post guessed that he coveted the posts of either
                    national committeeman, candidate for the Senate, or candidate for governor in 1940.74 Capehart may well have had political ambitions by this time, but if he did he left no trace
                    of them in the record. He was flattered by the speculation about his personal involvement in party
                    activities. He was always happy when people noticed him and expressed their gratitude for his
                    efforts. It meant that he had made progress toward his goal of strengthening the Republican
                    opposition to the New Deal. But he probably knew that few political parties welcome a new member
                    into their midst and immediately offer him a nomination for political office. This is particularly
                    true when the new member, as had Capehart in his Cornfield Conference address, alarmed some of the
                    party leaders by proposing a new approach, one which adopted important parts of the opposition
                    party's liberal platform.75
            
            Capehart, nevertheless, continued to attract listeners with his candor, his speaking ability, and
                    even his wit. When critical journalists pointed out that the coin machine nickels which had made him
                    wealthy came from New Deal relief checks, he retorted jovially, "For a nickel in one of my
                        
                  
                     71
                            
                                Westchester County
                             (
                                New York
                            ) Weekly Press, September 8, 1938. See also Billboard, September 3, 1938, p. 73.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Westchester County
                             (
                                New York
                            ) Weekly Press, September 8, 1938.
                  
                     73
                            Billboard, August 20, 1938, p. 66.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Kansas City
                            
                            Star, October 4, 1938; 
                                Columbia City
                             (Indiana) City Post, August 29, 1938. See also 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, October 2, 1938.
                  
                     75 For the customary difficulty of breaking into Hoosier politics see
                            Munger, "Two Party," 278, 151, 163, 340, 363.
               
                     machines you hear a fine place of music. Put a billion in the
                    New Deal machine and all you get is a note, maybe."76 Just a month
                    after the Cornfield Conference, he made another major political speech at the 1938 Constitution Day
                    program in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —a program which featured Colonel Robert R. McCormick as main speaker.77 Capehart elaborated the unorthodox, pragmatic, somewhat opportunistic mixture
                    of business experience and midwestern patriotism that he had voiced in his Cornfield Conference
                    speech. The 
                        United States
                    , he said, is "the land of individual personal opportunity, where any man or
                    woman, regardless of religion, color, nationality or environment at birth, may according to his or
                    her abilities reach the top in any chosen field of endeavor." The New Deal "would
                    substitute for honest, private employment, government ‘made’ work at a
                    woefully small wage." Government should be more "generous with the needy
                    … guarantee relief to them … take them by the hand, both the old and the
                    young, and pull them up," but the truly American way was to give them private employment
                    and a chance to use their initiative. "To kill private industry in America,"
                    Capehart said, "is to kill us as a nation."78 It was the
                    strength of this simple conviction which made him decide to become active in Republican politics.
            Shortly afterward, 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers began to speak of Capehart as "a man with money, a flare for
                    politics" and an outstanding orator, a good Republican opponent for Senator Minton, or even
                    a presidential possibility.79 Cape-hart certainly had endeared himself to the
                    party's rank and file.80 Newswriters began to identify him as
                    "Homer E. Capehart, host of the Republican Cornfield Conference." He had observed
                    a principle which political scientist James MacGregor Burns has shown Franklin D. Roosevelt
                    occasionally 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, October 2, 1938.
                  
                     77 One scholar has noted of Robert R. McCormick, owner of the 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, that he used the newspaper "as his personal organ to run
                            the city of 
                                Chicago
                             and the state of 
                                Illinois
                             and even to influence Republican politicians in Indiana and 
                                Wisconsin
                            , where the Tribune also circulated. He would have liked to run the Republican
                            party in the nation." 
                                Warren
                             Moscow, Roosevelt and Wilkie (Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1968),
                            26. See also McCormick to Willis, November 22, 1938, Willis Papers; and, for the detailed
                            and favorable treatment of Capehart and his Cornfield Conference, 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, August 27, 29, 1938.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 18, 1938.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, September 19, 1938; Capehart, tape 9, Oral History Project.
                  
                     80 Ralph P. Gates, tape 1, Oral History Project (Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Irving Leibowitz, My Indiana (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
                            1964), 108; Capehart, tape 9, Oral History Project.
               
                     ignored (often to his own chagrin): Capehart had put his party
                        first.81 He had thrown a luncheon for the precinct committeemen, the too
                    frequently unseen or ignored grassroots spokesmen of American political parties. Capehart had
                    entertained them, served them a free lunch, and told them how they could profit by exploiting the
                    issue of nationwide unemployment. In a remarkably short time the phonograph maker from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and North 
                        Tonawanda
                     had become an important name in Indiana politics.
            
               
                  81 Interview with William E. Jenner, September 20, 1971, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . James M. Tucker, tape 1, Oral History Project (Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ); Burns, Roosevelt, 380.
            
         
         
         
            Visions of a Western 
                        Lowell
                    : 
                  Cannelton, Indiana
               , 1847-1851
            
                    Kate Douglas Torrey
                    ∗
                
            During the early nineteenth century, settlers were drawn to the Ohio River
                    Valley and beyond mainly by the agricultural promise of the West. "On our
                    seaboard," an easterner named 
                        Hamilton
                     Smith explained, "land … is dear and unproductive; the hills of New 
                        England
                    , the sandy plains of the Carolinas, and the worn out soil of 
                        Virginia
                    , offer few inducements to the generations rising upon them. The eyes of all are turned
                        westward…."1 Yet the western future that excited Smith
                    was not agricultural but industrial. His vision was shared in the middle 1840s by other wealthy,
                    transplanted New Englanders. "Is the manufacture of cotton to be confined chiefly to the
                    rugged hills of New 
                        England
                    ?" one asked and proceeded to answer his own question: "The day is
                    coming when the valley of the 
                        Ohio
                     will … bear the same [manufacturing] relation to New 
                        England
                     that New 
                        England
                     now does to Great Britain."2 These men visualized a
                    planned industrial city on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    : 
                  Cannelton, Indiana
               , a fledgling coaling stop for river steamers, would soon be
                    larger and more impressive than bustling 
                  Lowell,
                            Massachusetts
               .
            
               
                        Lowell
                     and New 
                        England
                    's other textile cities drew power from rushing water—a power the
                    Middle West lacked. In 1840, however, Scottish manufacturer James 
                        Montgomery
                     published a notable and influential study of cotton manufacturing in the 
                        United States
                     in which he judged waterpower inadequate, subject as it was to interruption by winter
                    freezes 
                  
                     ∗ Kate Douglas Torrey is an editor at the Regents Press of 
                                Kansas
                            .
                  
                     1
                            
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, "Indiana—Her Resources and Prospects," DeBow's Review, VII (September, 1849), 247.
                  
                     2 Elisha M. Hunting-ton, "Manufacturing Advantages of the
                            Lower 
                                Ohio
                            ," ibid., V (January, 1848), 13.
               
                    
                    
                  AN EARLY VIEW OF THE CANNELTON COTTON MILL
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                             Smith Mss., Manuscript Department.
                  Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington, Indiana
                     
                  
               
                     and summer droughts. When coal became available at a reasonable
                    price, 
                        Montgomery
                     concluded, steam-powered mills would quickly take over the cotton industry.3
            
            Smith, one of 
                        Cannelton
                    's planners, amplified 
                        Montgomery
                    's assessment: "Water power must be taken as it is and where it
                    is," while steam was "infinite in its capacity for expansion."
                    Furthermore, steam allowed flexibility in manufacture: "You can select your spot where all
                    you require is either at hand or can be had at the smallest expense."4
                    Smith and his associates predicted that their chosen spot, 
                        Cannelton
                    , would soon be bursting with cotton mills powered by steam and fueled by coal from
                    nearby beds "of inexhaustible abundance."5 Although overlooked
                    "when the last maps and geographies were published,"6
                    
                        Cannelton
                     would lead the way in industrial development for the South and the West and would
                    provide a model of steam manufacturing so that "the lower 
                        Ohio
                     in a few years will have the most flourishing cotton manufactures in the
                        world."7
                    
                        Cannelton
                    's mills would provide disenchanted New Englanders with opportunities no longer
                    attainable in the crowded East: here "the employed of today" would become
                    "the employer of tomorrow."8
                    
                        Cannelton
                     would become a "school in which thousands will be taught to manage and direct
                    … a cotton mill," Smith predicted.9
            
            The hopes of 
                        Cannelton
                    's promoters were never fulfilled. They did succeed in building the largest
                    textile factory west of the Alleghenies, an imposing four-story structure some 280 feet long.10 But the efforts to create a model mill town 
                  
                     3 James 
                                Montgomery
                            , A Practical Detail of the Cotton Manufacture of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                Glasgow
                            , 1840), 195. Though steam power was not a new idea, its use in cotton
                            manufacturing was still experimental. Caroline F. Ware, The Early New 
                                    England
                                 Cotton Manufacture: A Study in Industrial Beginnings (
                                Boston
                            , 1931), 82.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, "Southern and Western Manufactures," DeBow's Review, VII (August, 1849), 132.
                  
                     5 Charles T. James, "The Production and Manufacture of
                            Cotton," Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial
                                Review, XXI (November, 1849), 501.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, April 28, 1849, p. 6. Copies of the Economist
                            may be found in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     7
                            
                                Hamilton
                             Smith to Alfred Jenks, February 14, 1848, 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith Collection (Lilly Library, Indiana University).
                  
                     8
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, August 25, 1849, p. 133.
                  
                     9
                            
                        
                           Cannelton, Perry County, Indiana
                        , … its Natural Advantages as a Site for
                                Manufacturing (
                                Louisville
                            , 1850), 84.
                  
                     10 Harold S. Wilson, "The Indiana Cotton Mills: An Experiment
                            in North-South Cooperation," Indiana History Bulletin, 42, no. 5
                            (May, 1965), 77-78.
               
                     collapsed in 1851, four years after the initial plans had been
                    drawn. Suffering from severe financial pressures, a strike, and technical problems with steam power,
                    the original mill company abandoned its plans.
            The "
                        Lowell
                     of the West," as the enterprise was touted by its promoters, fell to forces
                    which crushed many other mills. In the most general terms, the four years from 1847 to 1851 were an
                    unfortunate time to begin a manufacturing enterprise. By 1851 advocates of both water and steam
                    power concurred that cotton mills were in a serious economic slump. A recent study of the New 
                        England
                     textile industry demonstrates the economic realities behind the failure to attract
                    investment capital to 
                        Cannelton
                    . 11 Notwithstanding Smith's initial optimism, the struggling mill was caught
                    up in national industrial trends. The cost of raw cotton was very high, and yet rapid growth in the
                    number of textile mills meant that inexpensive cotton goods were flooding the market.12
            
            Beyond the cost-price squeeze, 
                        Cannelton
                     promoters failed to copy the 
                        Lowell
                     pattern successfully repeated at Nashua and 
                  Manchester, New Hampshire
               ,
                    and Lawrence, 
                        Massachusetts
                    : the parent corporation prospered by selling land, power, and machinery to new
                    manufacturing enterprises.13 The American Cannel Coal Company and the 
                        Cannelton
                     Cotton Mill Company were distinct entities on paper only, and both were dependent on
                    the production of a single, coarse grade of cloth and its negligible earnings ratio. Not copied
                    either was the success of the 
                        Lowell
                     corporation in obtaining largescale financing—an achievement that
                    distinguished the mills at 
                        Lowell
                     from others across New 
                        England
                    .14 After 1851 new owners operated a moderately successful cotton
                    mill at 
                        Cannelton
                     along conventional industrial lines for over a century. But from 1847 through 1851, the
                    enterprise there was a grand and visionary design for an industrial future for the West.
            This proving ground for theories about steam power and western manufacturing was a tiny coal mining
                    village 125 
                  
                     11 Paul F. McGouldrick, New 
                                    England
                                 Textiles in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1968), especially chap. 7. See also Charles T. James to Smith, May 4,
                            29, 1851, Smith Collection.
                  
                     12 See, for example, R. Buchanan to Smith, August 18, 1851, Smith
                            Collection; Ware, Early New 
                                    England
                                 Cotton Manufacture, 108; Robert V. Spalding, "The 
                                Boston
                             Mercantile Community and the Promotion of the Textile Industry in New 
                                England
                            , 1813-1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Yale
                            University, 1963).
                  
                     13 George Sweet Gibb, The Saco-
                                    Lowell
                                 Shops: Textile Building in New 
                                    England
                                , 1813-1949 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1950), 66-70.
                  
                     14 Ware, Early New 
                                    England
                                 Cotton Manufacture, 123.
               
                     miles southwest of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , on
                    the Indiana side of the Ohio River. Several unsuccessful attempts had been made
                    during the 1830s to mine and settle the area, but a fire in 1839 destroyed almost everything. In
                    1841 a group of investors, mostly Bostonians, took over the land and the mines of the American
                    Cannel Coal Company (founded in 1837) and began to encourage development of the nearly deserted
                    village. The company fenced in two hundred small plots and built log cabins for miners and their
                    families. A mule-drawn tramway carried coal down from the hills to supply the Ohio
                    River steamers. A saw mill, a tannery, a general store, and a shoe shop appeared as the
                    population of 
                        Cannelton
                     grew from only five families in 1840, to about five hundred people in 1848.15
            
            One of the stockholders in the coal company was 
                        Hamilton
                     Smith, a wealthy 
                        Louisville
                     lawyer. Born in Durham, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , in 1804 and graduated from Dartmouth College in 1829, Smith then became head master of
                    a boys school in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.—soon "the most profitable one in the
                        district…."16 Having resolved at Dartmouth "to
                    enter upon public life in some future year,"17 Smith studied law in 
                        Washington
                    , keeping a neat list of the important men he met; and although he never entered
                    politics, he would later use these contacts to promote his business venture in the West.
            Smith married in 1832 and moved to 
                        Louisville
                    . He set up a commercial law office, mainly representing eastern businesses in debt
                    collections and bankruptcy cases arising from the financial chaos of the 1830s.18 The practice proved 
                  
                     15 Thomas James de la Hunt, 
                        
                                    Perry County
                                : A History (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 83-93; History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 646-62. The company's name and the one chosen for the town
                            come from the soft, bituminous variety of coal found there. Cannel coal ignites and burns
                            easily with a candlelike flame, but its value as an industrial fuel is low. Because the 
                                United States
                             Census for 1840 and 1850 lists population by townships, 
                                Cannelton
                            's exact population is not known. For the 1840 figure, see History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 626-28; for the 1848 figure, see Smith to E. B. Bigelow, April 20,
                            1848, Smith Collection.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, Memoir, pp. 52-53, Smith Collection. See also "Death of Hon. 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith," 
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Reporter, February 27, 1875; de la Hunt, 
                                
                                    Perry County
                                
                            , 140-44; and "
                                Hamilton
                             Smith," DeBow's Review, XI (July, 1851),
                            90-91.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, Diary, May 12, 1828, p. 31, Smith Collection. Smith studied law with
                            Senator Levi Woodbury, a former governor of 
                                New Hampshire
                            , and his partner, William Wirt, the 
                                United States
                             attorney general.
                  
                     18 See Smith to S. Condit, January 16, 1838; Smith to Messrs. J. and
                            B. Vanderpoel, March 10, 1838, ibid., for examples of his cases
                            "collecting and securing debts" and dealing with the "derangement
                            of the currency."
               
                     lucrative: in 1837 alone Smith's income was reported
                    to exceed $30,000. After 1841, he invested in the new American Cannel Coal Company.19 Smith remarried in 1846, soon after the death of his first wife. Financially
                    secure, he turned his attention to the future of the lower Ohio Valley. His
                    interest was no longer merely monetary: by his second marriage Smith became a brother-in-law of
                    attorney Elisha Mills 
                        Huntington
                    , an Indiana judge who owned a large estate five miles from 
                        Cannelton
                    .20 Naturally interested in the development of the area, 
                        Huntington
                     encouraged Smith's investments.
            In 1846, when the American Cannel Coal Company moved its business office from 
                        Boston
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     (reflecting the western ties of its newer stockholders as well as a desire to be close
                    to 
                        Cannelton
                    ), Smith became one of its directors. Smith went East that year to visit several New 
                        England
                     cotton mills and to attend the National Exhibit of American Manufacturers in 
                        Washington
                    . He spent the following months studying the information he had gathered, calculating
                    costs and profits, and considering 
                        Montgomery
                    's ideas about coal- fired steam mills. Late in 1847, along with his brother,
                    Thomas, his brother-in-law, 
                        Huntington
                    , and other stockholders and officers of the American Cannel Coal Company, Smith formed
                    the 
                        Cannelton
                     Cotton Mill Company—the first of three manufacturing companies he planned
                    for 
                        Cannelton
                    .21 "This mill," Smith wrote, "will to a
                    considerable extent influence the industrial pursuits of the people of the central
                        West."22
            
            Smith was particularly intrigued by the planned industrial development of 
                        Lowell
                    . He read with great interest Henry A. Miles' 
                  
                            Lowell
                         As It Was, and As It Is, which detailed the corporate and social organization
                    of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     mill town.23 In addition to Miles' book, 
                        Lowell
                     had been the object of a good deal of favorable attention. After a visit in 1834, the
                    Frenchman Michel Chevalier wrote glowingly 
                  
                     19 Smith to Jenks, February 14, 1848, ibid.
                  
                     20 De la Hunt, 
                                
                                    Perry County
                                
                            , 126-29; Leander J. Monks, ed., Courts and Lawyers of Indiana (3
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), I, 411.
                  
                     21
                            Act of Incorporations and By-Laws of the 
                                    Cannelton
                                 Cotton Mill (
                                Louisville
                            , 1848); Smith to editor, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Freeman's Journal, August 2, 1851, 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, Scrapbook, Smith Collection; Smith to Judge Noland, March 21, 1851, ibid.
                  
                     22 Smith to editor, National Intelligencer, November
                            22, 1849, Scrap-book, 67, Smith Collection.
                  
                     23 Henry A. Miles, 
                        
                                    Lowell
                                 As It Was, and As It Is (
                                Lowell
                            , 1845). Smith also studied "Statistics of 
                                Lowell
                             Manufactures" and made some preliminary calculations for mills with
                            11,000 employees and 250,000 spindles. See Smith Collection, correspondence for January,
                            1847.
               
                     of the "snug … comfortable" wooden
                    houses, the large number of churches, the canals, bridges, banks, schools, and libraries. He found
                    "the peaceful hum of an industrious population."24 Charles
                    Dickens' American Notes also included a most favorable
                    description—based on his 1842 visit—of "
                        Lowell
                     and Its Factory System," which relied on clean, healthy, well-dressed and
                    well-mannered young New 
                        England
                     farm girls. Dickens was surprised by the culture and refinement he had witnessed:
                    interest in education, music, and literature was everywhere evident.25 Like
                    Miles, Chevalier and Dickens were impressed by the moral tone of 
                        Lowell
                    , well supported by a number of rules governing conduct in the mills and company-owned
                    boarding houses and by a "moral police force"—the girls themselves. In
                    all, these observers agreed, this American model was a far cry from factory life and factory labor
                    in 
                        England
                     and Europe.
            To carry out the ambitious plans at 
                        Cannelton
                     the infant mill company selected General Charles T. James, a New Englander and a
                    leading advocate of steam manufacturing. James contracted to build the first 
                        Cannelton
                     mill, which would produce coarse cloth, and to put it in "full
                    operation" with men and machines in exchange for a share of the company's profits.
                    James, a major-general in the 
                        Rhode Island
                     militia, was a natural choice. The son of a 
                        Rhode Island
                     farmer, he had trained as a carpenter before working his way up to superintendent of
                    Samuel Slater's steam-driven cotton mills in 
                        Providence
                    . He quickly rose to "the head of his profession," building,
                    expanding, and overhauling mills in 
                  New
                        Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, New Jersey
               , and 
                        New York
                    . During the 1840s James was responsible for starting twenty-two steam mills, in
                    addition to the one at 
                        Cannelton
                    . Between 1847 and 1851 he was involved in the construction or conversion of a dozen
                        mills.26 General James had the company's confidence because of both
                    his engineering and his entrepreneurial skills. The 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist predicted that he would "make here the most productive mill in
                    the world—a mill that shall be his advertisement. … He risks the reputation he
                    has been twenty years in making."27
            
            
               
                  24 Michel Chevalier, Society, Manners and Politics in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Boston
                        , 1839), 128-29.
               
                  25 Charles Dickens, American Notes (Gloucester, Mass.,
                        1968), 84-88.
               
                  26 "Charles T. James," DeBow's
                            Review, IX (December, 1850), 671-75; J. G. Dudley, "Growth, Trade, and
                        Manufacture of Cotton," ibid., XVI (January, 1854), 7-8.
               
                  27
                        
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Economist, August 18, 1849, p. 125.
            
            
            Smith's first action as the mill's secretary was a campaign to attract investors to 
                        Cannelton
                    . In a pamphlet sent to eastern businessmen and politicians, Smith boasted that the
                    town's advantages as a cotton manufacturing center included "ample, cheap, and
                    certain power; cheap food; facilities for transporting man and matter; proximity to the market; a
                    position particularly healthy; the best and cheapest building materials; [and its location] in a
                    free state."28 The pamphlet stressed not only the company's
                    determination to make 
                        Cannelton
                     "the chief seat of cotton manufacturing in the world," but also that
                    the "advantages to iron masters, glass workers, ship builders, etc." were
                    "nearly equal to those offered to cotton manufacturers." He asked various experts
                    in each field to read his pamphlet and requested their support "in the form of a letter for
                        publication."29
            
            Smith placed great importance on such endorsements. "I would rather have your influence and
                    aid," he confided flatteringly to one prospective investor, "than all the money
                    the stock would bring."30 The plans Smith outlined to industrialists in
                            
                  Massachusetts, New Jersey
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     emphasized that Cannelton would be a replica of 
                        Lowell
                    . Following its model, the American Cannel Coal Company, as parent organization, would
                    charter manufacturing companies, such as the 
                        Cannelton
                     Cotton Mill Company. It would supply them with land (for one dollar in the case of
                    Smith's first mill), building materials, and cheap fuel from its mines. The parent company
                    would also build streets, wharves, and railroads; donate land for churches, schools, and workshops;
                    and even pay "
                        Lowell
                     salaries."31 So close were the planned similarities, in
                    fact, that Smith felt it necessary to apologize to Miles for "quoting so freely"
                    from 
                  
                            Lowell
                         As It Was, and As Is It in his own pamphlet.32
                    Smith's desire for testimonials reveals the somewhat self-conscious stance of a New
                    Englander gone West. Both manufacturing experience and the pattern for success lay in the East,
                    particularly in 
                        Lowell
                    : Smith had even tried asking Abbott Lawrence, New 
                        England
                    's 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Cannelton
                             Cotton Mill Circular, dated January 1, 1848, in ibid., April
                            28, 1849, p. 8. The last "advantage" was subsequently dropped from
                            Smith's list as the appeal for support turned to the South.
                  
                     29 See Smith to David Dale Owen, April 6, 1848; Smith to Charles
                            Thomas, March 31, 1848; Smith to D. A. Hall, April 10, 1848; Smith to John C. Calhoun, March
                            20, 1848, Smith Collection.
                  
                     30 Smith to Hon. Fellows, April 22, 1848, ibid.
                  
                     31 Smith to Abbott Lawrence, March 24, 1848; Smith to Bigelow, March
                            20, 1848, ibid.
                  
                     32 Smith to Miles, February 16, 1848, ibid.
               
                     foremost industrialist and one of the 
                        Boston
                     financiers responsible for the success at 
                        Lowell
                    , to direct 
                        Cannelton
                    's manufacturing enterprises.33 At this stage, he muted the
                    challenge to New 
                        England
                     manufacturers; to one he wrote, "I hope you will not regard me as a
                        traitor…."34 To a western senator Smith emphasized the
                    economic benefits of diverting local labor to nonagricultural pursuits. Since overproduction was
                    already being felt in the South, Smith tried to persuade agrarians like Thomas Hart 
                        Benton
                     that the 
                        Cannelton
                     enterprise would have a mitigating effect by "giving cotton planters [a] means
                    of investment other than in lands and slaves…."35 To all his
                    correspondents Smith stressed the national advantages of western manufacturing: "It will
                    secure our independence of foreign influence, … and add vastly to the countries [sic] wealth."36 The theme of national unity had
                    previously been sounded by New 
                        England
                    's "lords of the loom," intent on preventing politics from
                    spoiling economic advantage.37 Smith proposed that the West had a role to play
                    in the previously simple relationship between the manufacturing Northeast and the agricultural
                    South. Western manufacturing could produce coarse cloth at less expense, Smith argued, allowing
                    southerners to get a high price for their raw cotton and still buy finished goods cheaply. And it
                    was in New 
                        England
                    's best interest to encourage coarse fabric manufacturing in the West, thereby
                    preventing competition in other fabrics. "The richer we are," Smith asserted,
                    "the more she will make out of us…,"38 Endeavoring
                    to win support for his view of mutual advantages, Smith tried to minimize competition with New 
                        England
                    . He wanted its respect, its aid, and most of all, its labor. In college he had
                    perceptively noted "the feeling of a day-labourer who regards … [only] the pay
                    he is to receive."39 Twenty-two 
                  
                     33 Smith to Lawrence, March 24, 1848, ibid. As
                            historian Hannah Josephson notes: "Innumerable visitors … viewed the
                            thriving young town on the Merrimack [River] as an industrial
                            Utopia…. The Apple- tons, the Lawrences and the Lowells who had a share in its
                            establishment became national figures. … To many of their contemporaries these
                            men were heroes…." Hannah Josephson, The Golden Threads:
                                New 
                                    England
                                's Mill Girls and Magnates (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 6-7.
                  
                     34 Smith to C. G. Atherton, April 26, 1848, Smith Collection.
                  
                     35 Smith to Thomas Hart 
                                Benton
                            , March 31, 1848; Smith to editor, Dry Goods Reporter, June 9,
                            1849, Scrapbook, ibid.
                  
                     36 Smith to Calhoun, March 20, 1848, ibid.
                  
                     37 See Thomas O'Connor, Lords of the Loom: The
                                Cotton Whigs and the Coming of the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1968).
                  
                     38 Smith to Atherton, April 26, 1848; Smith to John Davis, April 22,
                            1848, Smith Collection.
                  
                     39 Smith, Diary, October 26, 1827, p. 11, ibid.
               
                     years later, Smith remembered that feeling and promised that
                    efficiency as well as morality would be safeguarded at 
                        Cannelton
                    . Unlike 
                        Lowell
                    , where high stock prices kept the workingman from becoming directly interested in the
                    profits, at 
                        Cannelton
                     the "reasonable" price of $100 a share would allow mill
                    workers to become stockholders and would provide, Smith said, "a new and strong motive for
                    exertion, frugality, sobriety, [and] order."40
            
            Because 
                        Cannelton
                    's population in 1848 was barely five hundred, labor was desperately needed to
                    quarry limestone and construct the first mill. Skilled operatives would then be needed to run it.
                    Smith looked primarily to New 
                        England
                     for a work force.41 In addition he asked a manufacturer traveling
                    through Europe to help publicize the town, promising, "We can afford to pay well for the
                    introduction of … colonists."42 He invited a former French
                    minister of government to join the venture and to "influence labor and capital from 
                        France
                     to our position."43 Smith hoped to generate "a
                    very valuable current of emigration to work in the town's mills and mines," and he
                    made a particular effort to attract "men of standing and capital" as well as men
                    of skill: "We need but a few hundred energetic Yankees to take the lead," Smith
                        wrote.44 He hoped that the "overcrowded and uncertain
                    state" of New 
                        England
                     farming and manufacturing would serve to push settlers westward. But Smith felt that
                    his best chance of attracting skilled labor to 
                        Cannelton
                     lay in actively promoting the new town. He proudly reported that "Mr. [Samuel]
                    Slater of 
                        Providence
                    ," the British manufacturing pioneer, had called the 
                        Cannelton
                     plan "irresistable"; "he says," wrote Smith,
                    "all we have to do is enlighten public opinion…."45
            
            Smith took Slater's advice seriously. Throughout 1849 he wrote articles for the 
                        Louisville
                     newspapers on western 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, August 25, 1849, p. 133.
                  
                     41 "All the overseers, engineers, and machinists, indeed the
                            whole corps of operatives will be carefully selected in New 
                                England
                             and transplanted at 
                                Cannelton
                            ." Ibid., June 23, 1849, p. 66.
                  
                     42 Smith to Bigelow, March 20, 1848, Smith Collection. See also Joseph
                            A. Wright to Smith, June 28, 1850; Joseph Kendek to Smith, May 28, 1851, ibid.
                  
                     43 Smith to Alphonse J. N. Pugeot, April 22, 1848, ibid. Smith suggested that Cannelton's hills, "well situated for the
                            cultivation of the vine," would be especially appealing to French immigrants.
                  
                     44 Smith to Isaac Hill, March 24, 1848, ibid.
                  
                     45 Smith to Fellows, April 22, 1848, ibid.
               
                     manufacturing and the coal reserve in 
                        Cannelton
                    .46 When construction of the mill began, Smith sent Charles H.
                    Mason, a young assistant from his law office, to start a weekly newspaper in 
                        Cannelton
                    . Although the 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist, as it was called, was the only paper in 
                        Perry County
                    , Mason boasted that it was "not local in its character or
                        circulation."47 The Economist, which published
                    its first issue on April 28, 1849, carried articles about New 
                  England, California
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                     along with factory news and fillers from all over the country. Notwithstanding its
                    promise that the mill operatives would be heard in its pages, the Economist
                    functioned—with an occasional exception—as part of the company's
                    promotional effort, with Smith himself writing many of the news items and editorials. The paper
                    tended to portray a promising, energetic, and smoothly growing town, one that would soon look
                    familiar to New Englanders. "We [will] have temperance societies, Sunday and other schools,
                    with a good church, the desk of which is to be filled by a clergyman from 
                        Massachusetts
                    ."48
            
            In politics the Economist stood aloof, repeatedly protesting that the development
                    of the West was "work peculiar to no one party."49 Smith was
                    determined not to get involved in questions of party loyalty or in the tangle of slavery, but the
                    paper did reflect the economic interest succinctly stated by Smith's brother-in-law:
                    "Although the South is the only place where we can grown cotton," 
                        Huntington
                     wrote, "New 
                        England
                     is not the only place where we can manufacture it."50 The
                        Economist, while opposed to "partyism," was partial to the
                    southern cause.
            The cornerstone for 
                        Cannelton
                    's first mill was laid in May, 1849. At a small ceremony the mill was
                    celebrated as the "forerunner" of others, "introducing employment,
                    comfort, happiness, [and] competence" into the West. 
                        Cannelton
                    's development was not to be merely a moneymaking scheme. "Our moral
                    structure," Smith intoned, "will stand as correctly 
                  
                     46 Clippings of many of Smith's newspaper articles, including
                            the 1849 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal series, are in his Scrapbook, ibid.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., April 24, 1849, p. 6.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., May 5, 1849, pp. 13-14, July 28, 1849, p. 109, August 18, 1849, p.
                            125. See also Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Hoosiers and the ‘Eternal
                            Agitation,’ 1848-1850," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XLVIII (December, 1953), 331-68.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, July 28, 1849, p. 110.
               
                     … as [the] stone one will."51 During the summer the Economist pledged that 
                        Cannelton
                     would not fall prey to the "extreme poverty, the moral and intellectual
                    dissolution" which marked European manufacturing towns. Blame lay with the
                    "deranged and imperfect state of society" in Europe, not with the factory
                        system.52 The Economist published defenses of factory life
                    from 
                        Lowell
                    's Vox Populi, from that city's New 
                            England
                         Offering, and from Miles' book;53 Smith warned
                    residents of 
                        Cannelton
                     to "keep aloof from those indulgences that tend to vice."54
            
            Soon after the cornerstone was laid, however, a shortage of funds forced a serious departure from the 
                        Lowell
                     model. Extensive plans for company-owned housing had to be replaced by the individual
                    investments of absentee landlords. The directors scrapped James' design for a costly
                    river-front esplanade and settled instead for a conventional block arrangement of houses. Although
                    Mason called the new plan a "horrid mutilation" of the original design for
                    "none but pecuniary purposes," Smith closed off further debate by denying that the
                    "temporary" change would make a mockery of the model factory, noting that
                    "at this mill, the 
                        Lowell
                     system will be adopted with [only] some modifications."55
                    Smith had originally calculated that the first mill would open dur ing the fall of 1849.56 Although the four-story building was completed on time, lack of capital kept
                    it empty and silent until December, 1850.
            Another setback came when the company's public relations campaign, touting 
                        Cannelton
                     as the "best calculated spot for manufacturing in the country—-
                        Lowell
                     not excepted," badly misfired.57 Since 1848, when James
                    was chosen to design and build the model steam mill, he had tried to "open the
                    eyes" of southern planters to the profits of manufacturing. Despite a pamphlet sent to
                    politicians and potential investors 
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., May 26, 1849, pp. 38-39.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., May 19, 1849, pp. 29-31.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., September 1, 1849, p. 139.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., June 30, 1849, p. 78.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., June 23, 1849, pp. 66, 70, June 30, 1849, p. 78. During 1849 and
                            1850 the newspaper published a number of pleas for investors to buy housing lots and build
                            on them. See, for example, ibid., June 2, 1849, p. 45, October 6, 1849, p.
                            181. The private houses, built to "insure advantageous rent," were
                            eventually let to operatives by the mill agent. H. Bry to Smith, December 23, 1849, January
                            20, 1851, Smith Collection. The mill company built only five or six company-owned boarding
                            houses. New 
                                Albany
                             (Ky.), Daily Ledger, May 13, 1851.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, May 12, 1849, p. 21.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., August 11, 1849, pp. 117-18.
               
                     early in 1849, Smith bitterly complained that most people were
                    "in utter ignorance" of the western steam manufacturing experiment.58 Even a three-part series of articles by James (excerpted from the pamphlets) and two
                    promotional pieces by Smith failed to generate much discussion when they appeared in DeBow's Review, the South's largest circulation magazine.59 In November, 1849, however, when an abridgement of James' views was published
                    in Freeman Hunt's prestigious Merchants' Magazine and Commercial
                        Review (published in 
                        New York
                    ), it touched off a widespread, acrimonious debate between James and Amos A. Lawrence of
                    the Boston family of capitalists and industrialists.
            Their bitter exchange was waged for five months in the pages of Hunt's
                        Merchants' Magazine.60 James expounded on the enormous profits
                    to be made in manufacturing, the flexibility of steam over waterpower, and the advantages to the
                    South of a nonagricultural outlet for its capital and "poor, destitute, and
                    degraded" white labor. 
                        Cannelton
                    , James wrote, would be a "beacon light," a "nucleus for
                    Southern enterprise," and a "school for managers and operatives." In a
                    few years, he predicted, "
                        Cannelton
                     will out-rival even 
                        Lowell
                     herself."61
            
            
               
                  58
                        Ibid., December 1, 1849, p. 246; see also ibid., December
                        29, 1849, p. 277. An unsigned letter explains one method of the promotion campaign: "I
                        have had to grease the wheels of the press at the rate of $15 or $20 per
                        column…." Francis Yates Carlile to Smith, December 24, 1850, Smith
                        Collection. Excerpts from James' pamphlet, "Practical Hints on the Comparative
                        Cost and Productiveness of the Culture of Cotton and the Cost and Productiveness of Its
                        Manufacture," appeared in the 
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Economist, May 12, 1849, p. 22, May 19, 1849, p. 31, June 9, 1849, p. 55, June
                        23, 1849, p. 69.
               
                  59 James, "Cotton and Cotton Manufactures at the South,"
                            DeBow's Review, VII (August, 1849), 173-76, ibid., VII (October, 1849), 370-72, ibid., VIII (March, 1850), 307-11;
                        Smith, "Cotton, and the Only Practical Means … of Advancing and Controlling
                        Its Price," ibid., VII (July, 1849), 48-53; Smith,
                                "
                     Cannelton, Indiana
                  ," ibid., VII (November, 1849),
                        454. Smith and James were sounding a favorite theme: editor J. D. B. DeBow regularly boosted all
                        types of southern industry, and cotton manufacturing in particular. In addition, his Review had been bailed out financially only a few years before by a wealthy 
                            New Orleans
                         cotton and sugar cane planter, Maunsel White, who was also a 
                            Cannelton
                         investor. See Diffee William Standard, "DeBow's
                            Review 1846-1880: A Magazine of Southern Opinion" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        Department of History, University of 
                            North Carolina
                        , 1970).
               
                  60 James, "The Production and Manufacture of Cotton,"
                            Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial Review, XXI
                        (November, 1849), 492-502; Amos A. Lawrence, "The Condition and Prospects of American
                        Cotton Manufactures in 1849," ibid., XXI (December, 1849), 628-33,
                            ibid., XXII (January, 1850), 26-35; James, "The Culture and
                        Manufacture of Cotton," ibid., XXII (February, 1850), 184-94, ibid., XXII (March, 1850), 290-311.
               
                  61 "The Production and Manufacture of Cotton," ibid., XXI (November, 1849), 501-02.
            
            
            That challenge was taken up by Lawrence. Son of industrialist Amos Lawrence, nephew of Abbott
                    Lawrence, and at thirty-five already the director of several banks and corporations, Amos A.
                    Lawrence's response commanded attention and, in a sense, represented the answer of New 
                        England
                     to the western upstarts.62 Lawrence dismissed steam power as
                    unreliable, disputed the availability of southern investment capital, and predicted southern labor
                    would be "prejudiced against obeying foreigners" (missing—perhaps
                    purposely— James' point that managers could be recruited from New 
                        England
                    ). Finally, Lawrence charged that James had grossly overestimated mill profits: many
                    mills, he wrote, actually operated at a loss.63
            
            An editorial and a series of letters to the editor were published with Lawrence's article,
                    broadening the attack on James' credibility. Hunt himself labeled James' claims
                    "exaggerated" and deceptive;64 another critic charged that
                    they were "intended to dazzle the South" into ordering or investing in
                    "Northern—perhaps even 
                        Rhode Island
                    —machinery or skill."65 James was incensed and
                    charged a "conspiracy to discourage … the spirit of enterprise in the South and
                    the West" by "the whole force of Eastern waterpower Factorydom."66
            
            In the next issue of Hunt's Merchants' Magazine, Lawrence added
                    statistics to the intensely bitter, personal attack, charging that James habitually had
                    overestimated profits and underestimated costs at his steam mills, many of which paid only meagre
                        dividends.67 James was trying, Lawrence wrote, to "artificially
                    stimulate manufacturing, even in districts wholly unsuited for it."68
                    James, in turn, denied that the western manufacturing movement was a "forced project or
                    [the] scheme of speculators" and offered a confusing, though minutely detailed, refutation
                    of the 
                  
                     62 For a profile of Lawrence, see O'Connor, Lords of the Loom, 48-49, 69; Dumas Malone, ed., The Dictionary of
                                American Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1946), XI, 47-48.
                  
                     63 "The Condition and Prospects of American Cotton
                            Manufactures in 1849," Hunt's Merchants' Magazine
                                and Commercial Review, XXI (December, 1849), 677-79.
                  
                     64 "The Manufacture of Cotton in the Southern
                            States," ibid., XXI (December, 1849), 677-79.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, December 15, 1849, p. 259.
                  
                     66 James to Smith, December 21, 1849, Smith Collection.
                  
                     67 "The Condition and Prospects of American Cotton
                            Manufactures in 1849," Hunt's Merchants' Magazine
                                and Commercial Review, XXII (January, 1850), 29.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., p. 27.
               
                     "fallacious statements" and "tissue
                    of lies" about his own mill record.69 In desperation he charged that
                    the manufacturer's animosity was rooted in jealously and fear of competition. He boasted,
                    "I can beat 
                        Lowell
                    ," and proudly compared his self-taught skills with Lawrence's:
                    "it is his name alone that gives his opinions … any weight."70
            
            James' defense showed not merely the economic competition of different manufacturing regions
                    and techniques, but a clash of social classes as well. James and Smith considered themselves
                    representatives of a new generation of self-made men, energetic, ambitious, and
                    iconoclastic—typical Jacksonians. They saw New 
                        England
                    's upper class and its manufacturing monopoly as a block to their ambitions.
                    Conversely, Lawrence's criticism demonstrated that the 
                        Harvard
                     graduate regarded James as an opportunist interested only in money and power.
            One irony of this debate was that for more than a decade some southerners had been expressing doubts
                    about the invasion of "yankeedom" and the ruthless, chaotic thrust of progress.71 One southerner, declining not only Smith's invitation to invest in 
                        Cannelton
                     but even to endorse the vision of a manufacturing future for the South, wrote,
                    "The brilliant prospect you see in the future can … be purchased only by mines
                    of wealth and seas of blood." That, he concluded, would be "paying too
                    dear" for the factory whistle.72 Even southerners who supported
                    industrialization, like William Gregg, believed their region could best work out its destiny without
                    interference. Gregg cautioned readers of Hunt's Merchants'
                    Magazine that both James' and Lawrence's arguments were "calculated
                    to mislead."73
            
            In the aftermath of this debate, James and Smith recognized that Lawrence's articles had
                    done them "much harm" 
                  
                     69
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, January 26, 1850, p. 309; James, "The Culture and
                            Manufacture of Cotton," Hunt's Merchants' Magazine
                                and Commercial Review, XXII (February, 1850), 184-94, ibid., XXII
                            (March, 1850), 290-311.
                  
                     70 James, "The Culture and Manufacture of Cotton,"
                                Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial Review,
                            XXII (March, 1850), 311, ibid., XXII (February, 1850), 185.
                  
                     71 William R. Taylor, Cavalier and Yankee: The Old South
                                and American National Character (
                                New York
                            , 1961), 310, 334-41.
                  
                     72 Robert Chisholm to Smith, November 29, 1850, Smith Collection.
                  
                     73 "The Manufacture of Cotton Goods in the South,"
                                Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial Review,
                            XXII (January, 1850), 107-08. See also Broadus 
                                Mitchell
                            , William Gregg: Factory Master of the Old South
                                (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1928), especially p. ix; and Broadus 
                                Mitchell
                            , The Rise of the Cotton Mills in the South (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1921), 26.
               
                     both in the North and in the South.74 The 
                        Cannelton
                     project, which had begun as an attempt to integrate northern capital and skill with
                    southern and western resources, was now viewed as a minor personal and sectional conflict. Though no
                    direct economic effect can be laid to the campaign, the American Cannel Coal Company and its cotton
                    mill company had little luck in raising necessary capital during 1850 and 1851. Plans for the second
                    and third mill were quietly dropped,75 and it was a full year after the
                    controversy began before coarse cloth was manufactured at 
                        Cannelton
                    .
            The 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist's editor, Charles Mason, worried that Lawrence's
                    articles would prove disastrous for the town. Along with Smith he initiated a local news column
                    which first appeared in the paper in February, 1850. Titled "Things About Town,"
                    "Our Town," or "Local Review," the column was designed
                    "not so much for the sake of interesting our townsmen as to give persons at a distance
                        information."76 Mason acknowledged that rents were high, streets
                    muddy, and church attendance spotty, but he also reported that settlers and investors willing to
                    "take hold of things without gloves" could profit handsomely. News of local
                    construction and new businesses appeared alongside exhortations urging workers to leave the
                    depressed, failing New 
                        England
                     mills. "If you would be men and not always servants," Mason wrote,
                    "come and invest for yourselves … before the capitalist has gathered all within
                    his grasp as is now the case in New 
                        England
                    ."77 Clearly New 
                        England
                     manufacturing had shown pitfalls to be avoided as well as successes to be imitated.
            During the spring of 1850 Smith did receive letters from a number of interested settlers. A group of 
                        Massachusetts
                     tradesmen and their families, with "good characters [of] Sobriety and
                    Industry," wrote to ask about buying a farm.78 A bricklayer wrote from 
                        Cincinnati
                     that he wished "to earn a home for my family," explaining that in 
                        Ohio
                     "property 
                  
                     74 James to Smith, January 9, 1850, Smith Collection.
                  
                     75 For the organization of a second and third mill company (the
                            Indiana Cotton Mill Company and the Perry Cotton Mill Company, respectively), see 
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, March 23, 1850, p. 374, November 30, 1850, p. 239.
                            Smith's plan was to have one produce cotton yarn, the other calico prints (see
                            Smith to Judge Noland, March 21, 1851, Smith Collection), but the Perry Cotton Mill Company
                            was never more than a paper organization, and the Indiana Cotton Mill Company merely took
                            over the 
                                Cannelton
                             Cotton Mill Company and its coarse cloth production following the Newcomb
                            brothers' purchase of the firm in 1853.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, February 2, 1850, p. 318.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., May 25, 1850, p. 29.
                  
                     78 Joseph Dixon to Smith, January 7, February 6, 1850, Smith
                            Collection.
               
                     is beyond the reach of the poor man."79 Not all of the inquiries Smith received came from laboring men. One entrepreneur proposed
                    expanding the 
                        Cannelton
                     mill into carpet and tapestry weaving; a second hoped the mill might add a tannery to
                    manufacture boots and shoes for slaves; and a third inquired about starting a paper mill.80 Others wrote to suggest suitable candidates—often
                    themselves—for the job of cotton mill superintendent.
            There was no lack of working class and managerial interest in the town; investors, however, proved
                    much harder to attract. The capital needed to buy machinery and hire operatives was not forthcoming.
                    In the South, railroads and mills competed for the limited investment dollar; and New 
                        England
                     capitalists proved reluctant to finance western manufacturing. Even those local
                    supporters, like Robert Dale Owen, who endorsed the 
                        Cannelton
                     plan were able to invest only small amounts. In Owen's case, it was
                    "$500 instead of $5,000 as I desired."81
            
            Tight money forced James to reverse his public assessment and acknowledge that the
                    "manufacturing business in New 
                        England
                     is so generally depressed that capital is quite shy of it." He complained of
                    "jealousy and bad feeling" in 
                        New York
                     financial circles toward southern and western manufacturing and termed the battle to
                    sell stock "uphill."82 After several months without success,
                    James felt that "most of the banks, if not all" were
                    "prejudiced" against him. He proposed a change of tactics: the issuance of
                    bonds—short term loans to be repaid at a high rate of interest—instead of
                    selling stock.83
            
            Although no record remains of the directors' reaction, James' suggestion could not
                    have been embraced easily. The company was in a precarious state in May, 1850: a great deal of money
                    had been spent; the cotton mill was a long way from opening; and there were no dividends in sight.
                    Furthermore, the town itself was hardly established. One church had been built, but there was no
                    school building; and although there were several grocery and dry goods stores, only a dozen 
                  
                     79 James Oates to Smith, March 8, 1850, ibid.
                  
                  
                     80 Harvey 
                                Mitchell
                             to Smith, June 30, 1850; M. Mellines to Smith, March 26, 1850; Frederick
                            Friendly to Smith, March 26, 1850, ibid.
                  
                     81 Robert Dale Owen to Smith, February 27, 1850, ibid. See also A. W. Means to Smith, March 30, 1850; S. M. Allen to Smith, April 5,
                            1850; L. J. Thurstin to Smith, January 26, 1850; Carlile to Smith, April 8, 1850, ibid.
                  
                     82 James to Smith, May 4, 1850, ibid.
                  
                     83 James to Smith, May 29, 1850, ibid.
               
                     or so houses (privately, not company owned) were ready for
                    occupancy. The idea of abandoning 
                        Cannelton
                     altogether must have occurred to some of its backers, and the directors must have
                    seriously doubted whether bonds would only catapult them deeper into debt.
            By the end of June, 1850, James' patience with the company had worn thin. The question was
                    simple: "Will we raise the money to carry out what we have undertaken … or madly
                    sacrifice all … ?" James belittled the directors' fears; he scoffed
                    that "this entire procedure would in New 
                        England
                     be considered as mere boy's play" and bemoaned the lack of a
                    "spirit of enterprise and indomitable perseverance … [which] enriches New 
                        England
                    ."84
            
            Tensions between James and the company, which surfaced with the strain of financing the enterprise,
                    had been building for several months. Perhaps Lawrence's charges underminded the
                    company's confidence in James' ability to manage the mill responsibly, but more
                    worrisome was James' heavy commitment to several other mill projects. It would not be
                    surprising if the directors feared that James' outside activities threatened their own
                    futures.
            The problem of factory labor was another source of tension. The directors favored hiring cheap,
                    transient labor to get the mill started immediately and also proposed not paying laborers'
                    relocation costs. James countered by arguing that "transient persons, without families to
                    fix them to the spot" would "pack their trunks and step on board the first passing
                    boat. But families selected with care," who "have invested their all in lots and
                    houses," he continued, "will stand by and abide the vicissitudes that may
                    occur." James promised that he would select "responsible families …
                    with the very best references," and he pledged that he would send "very few
                    Irish." As a further safeguard, James suggested that operatives would have to agree to a
                    code of conduct before leaving for 
                        Cannelton
                    . But to insure this stable and skilled work force, James said, the company would have
                    to pay transportation costs and provide suitable family housing —"small
                    tenements … which will take no boarders."85 The directors apparently relented: efforts were made to attract permanent workers and their
                    families.
            Like James, editor Mason feared that disappointed newcomers might "step on board the first
                    passing boat." During 
                  
                     84 James to Smith, June 21, 1850, ibid.
                  
                     85 James to Smith, June 28, 1850, ibid.
               
                     the summer of 1850 he made a particular effort to warn his
                    readers about exaggerated reports of 
                        Cannelton
                    's progress. Reprinting one such misleading description from the 
                        London
                    
                    Economist (which termed the town "a bustling city" with a
                    working mill nine times the size of the existing one), Mason emphasized that 
                        Cannelton
                     was not "a city of ample dimensions" and certainly "not a
                    paradise—not even an imperial city." (He let stand unchallenged, however, the 
                        London
                    
                    Economist's, report of "other mills currently under
                    construction" and of "current production" at the empty mill.)86 Several weeks later, the "Local Review" carried news which
                    underscored Mason's characterization of the town. During July, the average daytime
                    temperature had been ninety-two degrees; there had been numerous cases of diarrhea, dysentery, and
                    at least four cholera deaths. With great understatement, the 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist advised settlers to postpone their trips.87
            
            When the worst of summer's heat had mercifully left southern Indiana, the 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist again encouraged migration. An editorial, probably by Smith, captured
                    the mood of the autumn. Although it began by conceding that the recent mill closings in the East
                    "tend to discourage the faint of heart," it promised there would be no collapse in 
                        Cannelton
                     and labeled such fears "groundless."88 The
                    newspaper carried reports that fall of the completion of a new well and of several new factory
                    boarding houses; two steam-powered saw mills had opened during the summer and were providing lumber
                    for plank sidewalks in town; the mill's boilers and looms had arrived; and there were now
                    ten doctors, one lawyer, and a modest assortment of businesses on hand. The Economist tutored townspeople on "How To Build Up A Town," urging them to
                    patronize local firms instead of sending away to 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Louisville
                    .89 There were notices of meetings of the temperance and the library
                    societies and of formation of an "Association for the Diffusion of Useful
                    Knowledge." Finally, the arrival in October of Ziba Cook, the 
                        New York
                     mill agent selected by James, sparked additional optimism and prompted the suggestion
                    that the mill would be running "in a few weeks."90
            
            
               
                  86
                        
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Economist, June 22, 1850, pp. 55, 57.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., July 13, 1850, p. 83, August 10, 1850, p. 114.
               
                  88
                        Ibid., September 7, 1850, p. 145.
               
                  89
                        Ibid., October 5, 1850, p. 178.
               
                  90
                        Ibid., October 26, 1850, p. 198.
            
            
            The Economist published inspirational poems and urged the town's citizens
                    to be "energetic." But, as an editorial deploring the local propensity for
                    profanity suggests, disappointment and frustration were becoming widespread as 1850 wore on and the
                    mill still had not begun production.91 In the Economist Mason
                    commented on a lure, originally published in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, directing settlers to 
                        Cannelton
                     as the "choicest spot" in the West. "Don't come
                    here expecting to find everything finished and very nice," he warned. "The town is … scarcely out of the
                        woods."92
            
            It was a description some 250 mill workers and their families, hired by James, could undoubtedly have
                    attested to. An inauspicious welcome greeted the newcomers who arrived without warning one night,
                    met only by a cold, December rain. Apparently James' letter announcing their arrival had
                    not reached agent Cook in time. During the following week more families arrived, all armed with
                    contracts specifying "
                        Lowell
                     wages."93 But the privately built houses, which were to
                    have been finished before the operatives arrived, were not ready. Cook found that there was a
                    serious housing shortage, even when two or three families were crowded into accommodations planned
                    for one. In addition, the workers' furniture —including bedsteads—had
                    not arrived.94 The superintendent was equally disturbed, however, by the quality
                    of raw cotton which had arrived, cotton so poor that "the cloth made from it cannot
                    … establish the reputation of the mill."95
            
            Nevertheless, late in December, 1850, the 
                        Cannelton
                     Cotton Mill began operations; the first shipment of fabric was ready for the 
                        Louisville
                     market by the end of January, 1851. "Everything moves like
                        clockwork,"96 the Economist proclaimed; but its
                    description of "increasing activity" at the mill and of the "regular
                    shipments of [finished] goods"97 contrasted sharply with the actual
                    functioning of the mill. Agent Cook's correspondence offers revealing, through spotty,
                    evidence of daily difficulties. One was a chronic shortage of 
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., October 12, 1850, p. 186. For an indication of Smith's
                            growing despondency, see L. L. Robinson to Smith, November 3, 1850; James 
                                Montgomery
                             to Smith, December 19, 1850, Smith Collection.
                  
                     92
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, December 7, 1850, p. 245.
                  
                     93
                            Ibid., p. 247.
                  
                     94 See Ziba Cook to Willis Ranney, December 5, 21, 31, 1850, January
                            1, 1851, 
                                Cannelton
                             Cotton Mills Letterpress Copybook, Indiana Cotton Mills Collection (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University).
                  
                     95 Cook to Ranney, January 30, 1851, Ibid.
                  
                  
                     96
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, January 18, 1851, p. 294.
                  
                     97
                            Ibid., February 22, 1851, p. 334.
               
                     cash at 
                        Cannelton
                    . Credit notes were regularly drawn on the mill's selling agent or the
                    company's treasurer in 
                        Louisville
                     to cover debts and to meet operating expenses. In addition, several thousand dollars in
                    cash was needed once a month for the mill's payroll.98 Manufacturing
                    equipment presented continual problems. All supplies—wrenches, nails, screws, files,
                    wire, glass, pipes, hoses, pumps, ropes, varnish, oil, and dyes —had to come by boat from 
                        Louisville
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Without a machine shop or hardware store in town, the mill was isolated and
                    vulnerable. Missing or broken parts and the irregular supply of cotton and oil caused frequent
                    delays and reduced production. Even more ominous was the fact that after just three months the
                    mill's boilers became heavily encrusted with mineral deposits. Cook tried emptying the
                    boilers and scrubbing them down: the cleaning took a day and a half because "a great deal
                    of lime … had settled … and became very hard…."99 To his dismay, the scales reappeared regularly, often within a month. Cook
                    searched magazines and journals for a remedy and wrote to James and to steam experts all over the
                    country inquiring about possible antidotes, such as molasses or coal tar. "The mill is
                    doing very well," Cook bravely declared, "as far as it is
                        going…."100 Although Cook hoped that James would come up
                    with a lasting remedy, he had to struggle with the crusty deposits all through the summer.
            In the spring of 1851 Mason published an editorial that preached sacrifice and cautioned against
                    those who "anticipate a harvest before they have fairly sown." Once fond of
                    contrasting the bright future of 
                        Cannelton
                     with eastern manufacturing centers like 
                        Lowell
                    , the Economist now deplored such "odious and unjust
                    comparisons." The paper advised the "fault-finders" to "return
                    to the abodes of your fathers" and to resist the "injustice and partiality of
                    … overwrought comparisons."101 In spite of his avowed belief
                    that "capital 
                  
                     98 For January, 1851, the payroll was $2500, increasing in
                            February to $3000, in March to $4000, and in May to about
                            $4500. See Cook to Ranney, February 4, March 8, April 10, June 11, 1851, Indiana
                            Cotton Mills Collection. In addition, there was a good deal of uncertainty about what "
                                Lowell
                             wages" really might be. See Cook to Ranney, March 1, 1851, Ibid.: "I have put off the next Pay Day one week in the
                            expectation of receiving prices of labor from Gen. James…." For his
                            breakdown of the operatives' wages, see Cook to George H. Thayer, July 24, 1851,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     99 Cook to Ranney, March 5, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     100 Cook to Carlile, June 28, 1851, ibid. For his
                            search for a remedy see Cook to Ranney, May 24, 28, 1851; Cook to James, May 30, 1851; Cook
                            to Prof. Sillman, August 27, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     101
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, April 12, 1851, p. 379.
               
                     and labor have the same interests" and were not
                    "antagonistic," the editor increasingly boosted management, chided labor, and
                    glossed over difficulties at the mill.102 Linking the prosperity of 
                        Cannelton
                     to the character of its citizens, Mason objected to the "ill-natured
                    remarks" which met "every little embarrassment of the company."103 He bemoaned the lack of a "high moral and religious
                    character" and blamed the mill's lack of success on workers' profanity
                    and nonobservance of the Sabbath.104 Mason defended the Economist's efforts to "raise the standard of human excellence."105 By molding the character of 
                        Cannelton
                    's residents, Mason hoped to insure the success of the town and its enterprise.
                    Despite assurances, however, that capitalists—the mill's
                    investors—"are not enemies of the laboring man, but [are] his friends,"
                    the newspaper's message was just the opposite: operatives were foolish, unreasonable, or
                    even dangerous.106
            
            Mason's articles also downplayed the delays to scrub out the scaled boilers, calling them
                    "necessary in all steampropelled factories."107 Investors at a
                    distance may have been none the wiser, but the paper's local readers knew firsthand that
                    the mill's problems were a good deal more serious than the Economist let
                        on.108 There were concrete signs by summer that the management of the mill
                    had failed to satisfy the directors. They rejected Cook's repeated requests to install gas
                    lights in the mill to extend working hours when the fall days grew shorter. The company was both
                    unwilling and unable to spend the several thousand dollars required to implement his plan to
                    increase production. Instead, the directors called for a "full accounting" of his
                    expenditures and for weekly statements of the mill's output.109
            
            Although the directors took no similar action against James, "all sorts of stories about the
                    companies [sic] being dissatisfied" reached him in 
                        Providence
                     where he was seeking investors and attending to other business. James defended himself
                    characteristically. "I have done more and suffered 
                  
                     102
                            Ibid., May 21, 1851, p. 5.
                  
                     103
                            Ibid., July 30, 1851, p. 85.
                  
                     104
                            Ibid., August 30, 1851, p. 117.
                  
                     105
                            Ibid., July 16, 1851, p. 69.
                  
                     106
                            Ibid., July 30, 1851, p. 85; see also ibid., June 4,
                            1851, p. 21, July 9, 1851, p. 61.
                  
                     107
                            Ibid., May 28, 1851, p. 14.
                  
                     108 Cook to James, May 30, 1851, Indiana Cotton Mills Collection.
                  
                     109 Marshall Key, Jr., to Smith, May 24, 1851, Smith Collection. On
                            the gas lights, see Cook to John Jeffrey, May 14, 1851, Cook to Ranney, June 18, 1851,
                            Indiana Cotton Mills Collection; Cook to Smith, June 21, 1851, Jeffrey to Smith, June 30,
                            1851, Smith Collection.
               
                     more for 
                        Cannelton
                    ," he wrote, "than I would go through again. … If heavy
                    sacrifices … are not appreciated on the part of the company, they will be by the
                    public…." As to the company's finances, James wrote Smith,
                    "You needed not give yourself any uneasiness."110 But his
                    confident assurances of more stock and bond sales were no longer sufficient to ease the
                    directors' worries. Smith wrote to several eastern business acquaintances to ask for their
                    impressions of the general.111 The reports must have given Smith little comfort.
                    While affirming James' honesty, his correspondents noted, as one put it, that James
                    "sometimes undertakes a very large amount of work and perhaps too much for him to give [any
                    one project] … beneficial … attention."112
                    Indeed, 1851 was a particularly busy year for James. In addition to his many mill projects, he had
                    been elected during the spring to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.113
            
            The directors worried in particular about James' failure to cover the company's
                    credit notes. Although Smith's eastern sources termed the problem mere
                    "carelessness" and "nothing worse than an oversight,"114 and although James soon guaranteed that "the drafts have all been
                    attended to,"115 Smith's relief must have been tempered by
                    James' assessment of their business future. The general did not expect the mill to work at
                    full capacity, and certainly not to be successful, "for a long time to come."
                    Smith and the other directors were unwilling to accept James' explanation that only
                    "the low price of cotton and our own … perseverance" would improve the
                    balance sheet.116 Cook, the mill agent James had selected, increasingly became
                    the focus of their discontent.
            Late shipments of shuttles, looms, and oil were among the many difficulties slowing the
                    mill's production. These 
                  
                     110 James to Smith, May 26, 1851, Smith Collection.
                  
                     111 See, for example, Pearly Chamberlain to Smith, June 10, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     112 David L. Brown to Smith, June 5, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     113
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, February 15, 1851, p. 326. James, a Democrat, won by a one-vote
                            majority on the eighth ballot of the Whigcontrolled 
                                Rhode Island
                             legislature. His position as a compromise candidate meant supporting a
                            "judicious tariff," a source of real disillusionment to his business
                            associates in the West. Western independence from the "crutches" of
                            industrial protection was one of Smith's arguments for ousting New 
                                England
                             manufacturing. See Smith's articles in the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal, May 10, 15, 1851, Scrapbook, Smith Collection. As an indication
                            of the directors' fears, see Smith to James, April 15, 16, 1851, L. D. Stickney to
                            Smith, June 11, 1851, Smith Collection; James' letter clarifying his position, 
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, May 21, 1851, pp. 5-6.
                  
                     114 Chamberlain to Smith, June 10, 1851, Smith Collection.
                  
                     115 James to Smith, June 20, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     116 James to Smith, June 16, 1851, ibid.
                  
               
                     delays led Cook to complain that "we have more
                    operatives than I can employ to advantage"117 and forced him at times
                    to pay their living expenses until the mill could start up again. In addition, the quality of
                    high-priced cotton continued to cause Cook despair. "The cotton I have [had] for the last
                    forty days," he wrote, "was not fit to spin…,"118 The directors agreed that a better grade of cotton was essential if the mill was to
                    run efficiently, and so they replaced the mill's supplier with another 
                        Louisville
                     firm. Satisfied that "that part of the business is now in the hands of business men,"119 Smith put Cook on notice that a
                    significant production increase was expected.120
            
            Smith admitted that he was "not competent to say … whether the delays and
                    difficulties … are Cook's fault or not." But, Smith complained, Cook
                    was not a leader, "a man to command the respect … of his operatives."
                    Cook could not "represent the model mill of the West," Smith said, because he
                    lacked "moral standing." The flaw was not one of character, Smith conceded, but
                    one of appearances. "We can best be served by a man who takes our interest in hand on
                    Sunday as well as week days," Smith wrote, confiding, "I swear, and drink good
                    whiskey, and don't often go to church —but I always give preference to a man who
                    is not profane who does not fancy whiskey, … and who does go to
                        church…."121 Unconvinced by Cook's protests
                    that the directors' production expectations were unrealistic,122 Smith
                    prepared to take drastic steps. He warned James, "You selected this man and you will be
                    held responsible for his performance."123 And Smith confided to a
                    stockholder that if the mill did not soon show a profit, "we will turn out agents and
                    overseers and sue James for misrepresentations…,"124
            
            Just as Smith wrote threatening a suit, startling rumors began to circulate in 
                        Louisville
                     that James was bankrupt.125 Since James' personal debts
                    and accounts were thoroughly entwined with those of the mill and coal companies, Smith 
                  
                     117 Cook to James, May 30, 1851, Indiana Cotton Mills Collection.
                  
                     118 Cook to Ranney, July 14, 1851, ibid.; see also
                            Cook to Ranney, July 19, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     119 James Boyd to Smith, July 30, 1851, Smith Collection.
                  
                     120 See Smith to Boyd, July 31, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     121 Smith to James, July 3, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     122 Cook to Smith, July 24, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     123 Smith to James, July 3, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     124 Smith to Boyd, July 31, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     125 Boyd to Smith, August 7, 9, 1851; 
                                Huntington
                             to Smith, August 8, 1851, ibid.
                  
               
                     feared that James' collapse might bring down the mill
                    and his own fortune as well. He immediately sent his brother, Ballard, to investigate the rumors and
                    to safeguard the companies' bonds which James held.126 James'
                    subsequent explanation of the matter denied any irresponsibility or financial instability. The
                    incident was one of loyalty and honor, James said: in covering a friend's debts, he himself
                    had become overextended.127
            
            Smith and the directors, however, were unwilling to write off the collapse as a generous
                    sleight-of-hand. They pressed James to draw up an accounting and to meet with them in
                        mid-October.128 In the meantime, the directors themselves settled on a
                    change of course.129 At the annual meeting in September they agreed to fire Cook
                    and to lease the mill to Newcomb & Brothers, the firm's new cotton suppliers. When
                    told of the change, James was furious. "I shall consider that act," he fumed,
                    "as severing the last link in the chain that binds us together."130 Undoubtedly, that was just what the directors had intended. In less than a year operating
                    under James' and Cook's administration, the 
                        Cannelton
                     mill had lost $30,000.131
            
            An editorial in the Economist illustrates how the change in management was
                    explained to the stockholders. In assessing the "Difficulties of Those Who Plan Worthy
                    Enterprises," James was anonymously but unmistakably described as a
                    "reformer" and an "inventor," one "not so well adapted
                    to guide, to regulate, and to manage as to project and start an enterprise…." It
                    is likely that Smith wrote this farewell to his former ally, noting with sadness that "the
                    projector is made responsible for … [the] temporary failure of his truly laudable
                        efforts."132 Smith might have cast James as the scapegoat for 
                        Cannelton
                    's failure—a symbol of eastern sabotage of a western vision. Indeed,
                    Mason's aside that the Newcombs would "find it in their interest to visit 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    
                  
                     126 Ballard Smith to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, August 22, 25 (2 letters), 26, September 9, 17, 1851, ibid. See also 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith to Boyd, July 31, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     127 James to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, August 25, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     128 James to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, September, 9, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     129 See Boyd to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, August 7, September 9, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     130 James to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, September 10, 1851, ibid. For a profile of the Newcomb
                            brothers, see de la Hunt, 
                                
                                    Perry County
                                
                            , 137-38.
                  
                     131 Boyd to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, September 27, 1851, Smith Collection. In a letter to Smith, Boyd
                            complained, "I am forced to the conclusion that if present
                            management is continued, money could not be made if [the cost of] cotton was down to
                            zero." Boyd to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, July 25, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     132
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, September 30, 1851, p. 141.
               
                     oftener than once every six or twelve months" suggests
                    that just such a portrayal was a distinct possibility.133 That James was treated
                    instead with respect probably reflects Smith's recognition that the two enterpreneurs
                    shared many characteristics. At heart, both men were promoters, and, as Smith noted, a promoter
                    encourages people to "expect too much." Once disillusioned, "people
                    desert [him] and do not aid him in tough times."134 In part, the
                    editorial may have been dictated by internal political considerations. In the shake-up, Smith had
                    been elected president of the mill company and undoubtedly hoped he would receive more support in
                    "tough times" than James had. The spirit of reconciliation was also designed to
                    soothe investors. Some must have been shaken by James' outburst at hearing of the
                    mill's transfer that he would "rather see [the mill] stand idle" than
                    relinquish control of it.135
            
            In fact, the mill did stand idle for most of September, 1851, but not by James' command. A
                    late summer drought so reduced the town well that there was not enough water to stock the
                    mill's boilers.136 In addition to lost profits, each day the mill was
                    closed meant less work—and therefore less pay—for the mill operatives. Economist editor Mason proposed that under the circumstances the company should
                    open an operatives' library. He reminded management that books would bring happiness to
                    "operatives now discontent." Reading was a better use of "leisure
                    time," Mason concluded, than idleness or "vituperative conversation."137
            
            There is no indication that the company gave Mason's proposal serious consideration. The
                    drought did force the company, however, to build a water works and canal from the Ohio
                        River to the mill, providing what was hoped would be a better quality and more
                    consistent supply of water.138 When the mill started up again in late September,
                    wage disputes quickly precipitated a strike. Although James' original contracts had
                    promised wages "at the highest price then paid at 
                        Lowell
                    , Hadley Falls, Lawrence, and 
                        Manchester
                    " and stipulated that the "rates were not to be reduced for two
                    years," when the Newcombs took over they reset wages at 
                  
                     133
                            ibid., September 13, 1851, p. 134.
                  
                     134
                            ibid., September 30, 1851, p. 141.
                  
                     135 James to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, September 10, 1851, Smith Collection.
                  
                     136
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, September 6, 1851, p. 126; Cook to Ranney, September 6, 1851,
                            Indiana Cotton Mills Collection.
                  
                     137
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Economist, September 6, 1851, p. 126.
                  
                     138 See Cook to Newcomb Bros., September 17, 30, 1851; Cook to Ranney,
                            September 6, 1851, Indiana Cotton Mills Collection.
               
                     "current eastern rates," then considerably
                    depressed. While conceding that "the unsteadiness of work" understandably
                    "aggravated" workers' complaints, editor Mason lashed out at the strike
                    leaders. Without these "villains," who "spread false rumors in order to
                    increase discontent" and "inflame the operatives," Mason claimed, there
                    would not have been any public meetings of the operatives, "inflammatory
                    harrangues," threats and intimidations, or "resolutions not to work
                    passed." Mason saw in the brief three-day strike a "war against prosperity,
                    against all order—against the very existence of society." Repeating that
                    "the cotton mill company and the lessees of the factory are strong and true friends of the
                    operatives," Mason warned, "We are not ready to succumb to anarchy …
                    [or] to swear eternal hatred and enmity to those who seek to give employment to the industrious and
                    the needy."139
            
            With the Newcombs' take-over in mid-September, 1851, Mason had remarked, "the
                    mooted question will now be tested, viz. whether western manufacturing can
                        compete…."140 And for a month after the strike ended
                    there were promising signs: the company's school was finished and held its first classes;
                    the American Cannel Coal Company announced plans to rent gardens and pasture land to operatives in
                    return for fencing the parcels; and the new mill president, 
                        Hamilton
                     Smith, moved his family from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Cannelton
                    , a symbol of commitment to the enterprise.141
            
            Throughout October, 1851, however, the Ohio River remained at its lowest level
                    in more than a decade, and by mid-November the cotton mill was again forced to close temporarily. At
                    the same time, Mason announced that the 
                        Cannelton
                    
                    Economist was bankrupt and would cease publication immediately. He blamed a dearth
                    of local subscriptions (eighty in a county of over seven thousand people) for the paper's
                    collapse, but that should have been no surprise. To the last the Economist
                    operated as an arm of the cotton mill and mining companies' promotional campaign. It was to
                    serve the companies and their investors that Mason had provided a "public voice"
                    to the "westward coming world."142
            
            
               
                  139
                        
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Economist, September 27, 1851, p. 150.
               
                  140
                        Ibid., September 13, 1851, p. 134.
               
                  141
                        Ibid., September 27, 1851, p. 151.
               
                  142
                        Ibid., November 15, 1851, p. 205. Mason soon left town to practice law in
                        another part of the state. He returned sometime after the Civil War and in 1872 took over the 
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Reporter. See A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men
                            of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1880), I, 32.
            
            
            In spite of Smith's commitment and the change in management, the 
                        Cannelton
                     mill's financial problems continued for several years. Along with a wealthy
                    cotton planter, J. C. Ford, the Newcomb brothers loaned the company large sums until 1853, when they
                    purchased outright control. The New- comb family controlled the mill until the 1880s, making a
                    handsome fortune after the Civil War from its cheap cotton cloth and by selling coal from the leased
                    mines to river steamers.
            Although the 
                        Cannelton
                     mill itself was salvaged, its backers' visionary impulse—their
                    plans for company housing, cultural amenities, and for a model which would lead the West and the
                    South into an industrial future—had ended in failure. Mason blamed James'
                    distant and distracted leadership. James, in turn, felt he had been undercut by "traitors
                    in our own camp," short-sighted profiteers who lacked a sustained commitment to the
                        experiment.143 Smith attributed the failure to plans proposed "in
                    advance of the average mind"—even "in advance of the age."144 Other reasons for 
                        Cannelton
                    's failure were a good deal more complex and less personal than the principals
                    admitted.
            In addition to the national economic forces which crushed many other mills—the high cost
                    of cotton and the low price of finished cloth—there were special problems that hit 
                        Cannelton
                     particularly hard. Foremost were the difficulties inherent in steam manufacturing. 
                        Cannelton
                    's promoters had less than a decade of large-scale production experience on
                    which to rely. There were continual problems with the water —both its quantity and
                    particularly its quality—which were not considered in the venture's initial
                    plans. Most importantly, the supposed advantages of steam manufacturing rested on a number of
                    unproven assumptions. The calculations which Smith and James published in DeBow's Review and Hunt's Merchants' Magazine
                    did not take into account 
                        Cannelton
                    's lack of roads, housing, labor, and supplementary businesses. In praising the
                    flexibility steam manufacturing 
                  
                     143 James to 
                                Hamilton
                             Smith, June 16, 1851, Smith Collection. After the Newcombs leased the mill in
                            1851, James focused his energies first on politics and after his Senate term expired on
                            engineering. Spurred on by the approaching war, James concentrated on improving firearms and
                            ammunition. In 1860, he offered his services to any southern manufacturing enterprise, but
                            apparently there were no takers. He died two years later, in 
                                New York
                            , while experimenting with an explosive shell. DeBow's
                                Review, XXVIII (February, 1860), 244; Malone, Dictionary of American
                                Biography, IX, 572-73.
                  
                     144
                            
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Reporter, February 27, 1875.
               
                     allowed, they ignored the fact that the location of the
                    company's coal beds tied manufacturing to a specific spot as surely as did New 
                        England
                    's waterfalls. While correct in a limited sense, the promoters'
                    estimates were inaccurate in projecting the actual manufacturing costs at 
                        Cannelton
                    .145 And certainly James' energy and volatility were as
                    much a handicap as an advantage. The debate with Amos A. Lawrence did 
                        Cannelton
                     a good deal of harm by arousing northern hostility and southern suspicion toward James
                    and the wisdom of his plan. Rather than rising above sectionalism, the debate had exacerbated it.146
            
            When the mill's cornerstone was laid in 1849, Smith had promised that 
                        Cannelton
                    's success would be measured in part by "the church, the school-house,
                    and the lyceum…,"147 But in the end, the profit sheet was
                    the only measure of success. In his college diary, Smith had described himself with prophetic
                    insight. He wrote that as a boy, "after forming … visionary schemes, I would
                    pursue them with eagerness until, fatigued with labor, I found myself pursuing but a
                        shadow."148 Smith is said to have lost most of his remaining
                    fortune in the "sacrifice sale" of stock to the Newcombs in 1853, but he stayed on
                    in 
                        Cannelton
                     for the next twenty years as president of the American Cannel Coal Company and,
                    according to his obituary, as "the father of the town."149
            
            
               
                  145 See, in particular, Smith, "Southern and Western
                        Manufactures," DeBow's Review, VII (August, 1849), 128-34;
                        and James, "The Production and Manufacture of Cotton," Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial Review, XXI (November,
                        1849), 492-502.
               
                  146 See 
                            Huntington
                         to 
                            Hamilton
                         Smith, June 30 [?], 1850, Smith Collection. Huntingdon promised to try to
                        counterbalance the sectionalism by writing "something; for DeBow or Hunt"
                        showing "that Western interests are identical with Eastern and Southern …
                        like the chords of a stringed instrument." Ibid.
               
               
                  147
                        
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Economist, June 23, 1849, p. 66.
               
                  148
                        
                            Hamilton
                         Smith, Memoir, pp. 39-40, Smith Collection. Because the abundant genealogical
                        information makes no reference to his second marriage or to his children by Louisa Rudd, it is
                        assumed that Smith completed the memoir before 1846.
               
                  149
                        
                            Cannelton
                        
                        Reporter, February 27, 1875; de la Hunt, 
                            
                                Perry County
                            
                        , 141.
            
         
         
         
            Letters of Abraham Andrew, 1832–1839
            
                    Edited by Andrew Gray
                    ∗
                
            "I am tired of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," Abraham Andrew wrote home to his wife Viola on December 13, 1836,
                    "tired of Politics, tired of witnessing the proceedings of the Legislature—tired
                    of my old acquaintances that have forgot the meaning of the term—tired of my horse & have swapped him off and gave $15 to
                    boot—tired of paying $2 per day and not living as well as at
                    home—and mean to stay tired until I get home…."
            Abraham Piatt Andrew (1801–1887), one of the eleven co-founders of 
                        La Porte County
                     in 1832, was born in a log cabin near Fort 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , twenty miles
                    north of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and began his career at fifteen, working in the "
                        Queen City
                    " for a distant relative, John Piatt, who had established the first private
                    bank west of the Alleghenies. In 1818 Andrew became a clerk at the 
                        Brookville
                     branch of the first State Bank of Indiana, remaining there until its forcible
                    liquidation at the hands of Governor Jonathan Jennings in 1821. Andrew then signed aboard a
                    riverboat, and by the age of twenty-three became captain of the steamboat Tecumseh, a job he held for five years.1 On October 1, 1829, he married
                    Viola Jane 
                        Hamilton
                     Armstrong (1805–1883), daughter of the Revolutionary War hero and Indian
                    fighter, Colonel John Armstrong.2
            
            Andrew then turned his attention northward, and together with his elder brother James, entered the
                    contracting 
                  
                     ∗ Andrew Gray was formerly director of the Commerce
                            Department's Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. He is now a financial writer in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     1 Edith J. Backus, "Abraham Piatt Andrew, Jr."
                            (Unpublished manuscript, 
                                La Porte
                             Historical Society, 1940), 1, 3–4. The manuscript pages have been
                            renumbered by hand. Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans: A History of
                                Aboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), III, 1374–75.
                  
                     2 Backus, "Andrew," 11–12.
               
                     business. By 1830, the protracted wrangles concerning the most
                    appropriate route for the long deferred 
                        Michigan
                     Road had been largely resolved and the town of 
                        Madison
                     selected as its terminal point on the Ohio River. The Andrew
                    brothers bid $498.27 per mile to construct the first fifteen-mile segment of the road
                    leading northward from 
                        Madison
                     and were awarded the contract. Completing this strip of road in less than a year, the
                    brothers proceeded to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to collect the $7500 due them, only to find that the 
                        Michigan
                     Road Authority could not pay them in gold and silver coin. Instead, the brothers were
                    paid in scrip, exchangeable for parcels of land ceded to the authority in the northern part of the
                    state and scheduled to be auctioned off that autumn.3
            
            Abraham and James Andrew departed at once to inspect this land and find a suitable location for a new
                    community. Searching beyond tne Kankakee River and its swamps, they came upon a
                    gap in an otherwise densely timbered landscape that opened westward on a stretch of fertile soil
                    dotted with gem-like lakes. This promising expanse of terrain already bore the name "Door 
                        Prairie
                    ," but some Frenchmen operating a courier service between 
                        Detroit
                     and Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     had accorded it the more melodious Gallic equivalent. After "bidding
                    in" nearly 2,000 acres of this land at the auction held at 
                        Logansport
                     in October, 1831, the Andrew brothers, together with Walter Wilson, John Walker, and
                    Hiram Todd, hastened to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to petition the legislature to "strike off" a new county that its
                    founders agreed should be given the French name. Upon presentation of the act of incorporation,
                    however, one of the solons arose to inquire what the proposed designation signified and then
                    objected with the words: "Well, then, why not call it 
                        Door county
                     at once, and let these high flown French names alone?"4
                    But Andrew and his friends prevailed, and the new county was named 
                        La Porte
                    .
            Less than a month after Abraham and Viola Andrew had settled in 
                        La Porte
                    , the outbreak of the Black Hawk War in May, 1832, caused Andrew to send his wife back
                    to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for safety, the occasion for the first two letters from 
                  
                     3 Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                , Indiana (
                                Michigan City
                             [?], 1908), 72–73; Backus, "Andrew,"
                            19–20, 22. In theory the contractors were to have been paid from the cash
                            proceeds of 
                                Michigan
                             Road Authority land sales. But these transactions failed to materialize in
                            sufficient quantity—a possible indication of the relative lack of interest in the
                            economic possibilities of Indiana.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Jasper
                             Packard, History of 
                                    LaPorte County
                                , Indiana; and Its Townships, Towns, and Cities (
                                La Porte
                            , 1876), 37. See also Backus, "Andrew,"
                        25–26.
               
                     Abraham Andrew to his wife presented in this series. Beyond
                    descriptions of the common but severe hardships of bad weather, poor roads, and slow, often broken
                    communications, the Andrew correspondence of the early 1830s reveals the isolation, loneliness, and
                    uncertainty faced by the early settlers of Indiana in building towns.
            The correspondence also describes the opportunities. As late as 1832, 
                        Chicago
                     was merely a cluster of cabins sheltering perhaps a hundred permanent settlers and not
                    yet a major port on the Great Lakes. The possibility of making 
                        La Porte
                     a railroad and shipping center occurred to several county residents. In 1832 Major
                    Isaac C. Elston platted a lakeport for the county, designating it portentously as "
                        Michigan City
                    ," even though it consisted mainly of sand bars and a large marsh.5
            
            The overriding necessity, of course, was to connect 
                        Michigan City
                     by rail or canal (or both) with inland rivers. As early as February, 1832, a syndicate
                    of the county's founding citizens, including Major Elston and Abraham Andrew, incorporated
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     Railroad. Later Andrew joined several other citizens in chartering the 
                        La Porte
                     Canal and Railroad Company to build either a canal or railroad connecting 
                        La Porte
                     with 
                        Michigan City
                    . These and numerous other ventures achieved only a paper existence. The Panic of 1837
                    ended or delayed construction, and it proved impossible to persuade the state legislature at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to fund these ventures directly or place the full faith and credit of the state behind
                    the bond issues necessary to finance them.6 These were the grounds for
                    Andrew's exasperated outburst in his letter to his wife from Indianapolis. By that time,
                    the state government had in fact raised $10,000,000 to finance canal and rail
                    development, but had devoted the lion's share of the proceeds to the Central Canal, to join
                    the Ohio River with the 
                        Wabash
                     & 
                        Erie
                     Canal. Although some efforts were made on this extension, little was accomplished and
                    it was never finished.7 The founders of 
                        La Porte
                     did not easily abandon their efforts. In 1838, a local consortium headed by 
                  
                     5 Oglesbee and Hale, 
                                
                                    Michigan City
                                
                            , 78–84. Major Elston had made the original land purchases at 
                                Michigan City
                             on November 6 and 9, 1830. Ibid., 78.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 128–29.
                  
                     7 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 322–24, 336.
               
                     Orr dispatched Andrew to 
                        New York
                     to raise capital for a 
                        La Porte
                    -centered 
                        Buffalo
                     & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad, instructing him "to contract with any individual, company or
                    corporation for a loan or loans … not exceeding $1,000,000. [sic] and not less than $400,000….8 Predictably
                    enough, this paper proved impossible to float. In 1839, however, Andrew was again dispatched to 
                        New York
                    , the consortium having by this time abandoned its minimum demands. For months Andrew
                    traveled to eastern cities, including 
                  Buffalo,
                            Philadelphia
               , and 
                        Washington
                    , but he returned to 
                        La Porte
                     empty handed.9
            
            The last of Andrew's few extant letters, written mostly from 
                        New York
                    , contain reflections of the established, bustling cities of the East. 
                        New York
                     was a "tremendious [sic] city," Andrew wrote home
                    on July 17, 1838, "Where all the wealth and all the poverty are strangely thrown together— where many of the Virtues and probably all
                    the Vices of our nature are to be met with …." His letters express frustration
                    over failing to raise the needed capital, distress in separation from his family, fascination with
                    eastern finery and other delights to ship home, and eagerness to abandon efforts for the railroad
                    that he considered inevitably fruitless.
            Andrew went on to become editor of the 
                  
                            La Porte County
                         Whig in 1840, and then moved to 
                        Michigan City
                     first as a director then as the cashier of its branch of the second State Bank of
                    Indiana, jobs he held for six years. In 1851, he organized the "
                        La Porte
                     Gold Mining Company" and the following year went to 
                        California
                     via 
                        Nicaragua
                    , transporting with him a new-fangled machine for sifting ore. This was his last
                    speculative adventure, and it failed completely. Returning to 
                        La Porte
                    , he thereafter contented himself with real estate and banking activities of a
                    relatively demure kind, growing old prosperously.10 When his wife died, Andrew
                    published the following notice in the 
                        La Porte
                    
                    Herald-Chronicle of January 7, 1884: "PASSED TO SPIRIT LIFE From our home
                    in LaPorte, Indiana, December 25, 1883, my wife, Viola J. Andrew, aged 78 years, in the 55th year of
                    our married life. It is well. She was a good wife and a good mother. She has finished her work in
                    this world and done it well. I should 
                  
                     8 Joseph Orr to A. P. Andrew, Certificate of Authority, June 26, 1838,
                            quoted in Backus, "Andrew," 76.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 80–81.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 82, 87, 89, 111–12.
               
                     not call her back even if I could. She has gone ‘up
                        higher’."11 Andrew survived her by less than four
                    years—experiencing a placid old age disturbed, if at all, only by the rumbling of express
                    trains through 
                        La Porte
                     to and from the metropolis fifty miles to the west.
            
                    [Andrew Letters]
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    South Bend
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 25th 18321
                           
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        After you got started I repaired to where we were fortifying where we picketed in a
                                    fort & built two Block houses on Sunday morning we sent Mr. Clayburn on west
                                    to see what the prospects were he proceeded as far as 
                                        Chicago
                                     & returned on tuesday and informed us that the Saucks Indians
                                    had returned into the Winebago Country on the head of Rock
                                    River about 40 miles from 
                                        Chicago
                                     but still declared their intention was to come through but that there
                                    is 2000 
                                        Illinois
                                     Malitia in pursuit of them and it is not probable the Indians will even
                                    pass thru but should they there is from 500 to 1000 men at Niles's and
                                    reinforcements coming in daily from Pigeon prairie & other places in 
                                        Michigan
                                     and hold themselves in readiness at a minutes notice, after getting
                                    news above stated I got a horse and started to see what had become of you I
                                    proceeded in the direction of fort wayne and about 40 miles this side met three
                                    quakers who tole me that on Tuesday they met you on the other side of fort wayne and
                                    that your intention was to go on to Fathers I know I could not overtake you before
                                    you got there & had left my business so that I could not stay away long
                                    enough to come all the way through—I therefore turned back and am now on
                                    my way to the Door—
                        You I am afraid will think hard of my starting you on such a journey without
                                    accompanying you myself—but I think you will forgive me if you will
                                    reflect upon my situation as a Citizen of the Door—the question was with
                                    us will you run off or will you stay & protect our property &
                                    persons I could not do else than pledge myself to stay and as soon as I hear you are
                                    safe I shall never regret that I did stay—for 
                              
                                 11 Quoted in ibid., 130. See also
                                            Charles F. Cochran, Seven Generations of the Andrew Family (
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., 1924).
                              
                                 1 The editing of the Abraham Andrew letters was
                                            accomplished using the original manuscript letters in the possession of
                                            Andrew Gray, 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C. Spacing and indentations have been standardized, but
                                            incorrect and phonetic spellings, grammatical errors, and erratic
                                            punctuations have been retained as found in the handwritten letters. Words
                                            underlined in the original documents have been italicized.
                           
                                     had I left I might as well have staid away I
                                    never could have sneaked back to live there—I apprehend no particular
                                    danger now but shall write to you as often as an opportunity offers of sending a
                                    letter to the Post office, write to me frequently and direct to Terre Coupee post
                                    office—If you only get through safe I shall be glad of it as I am afraid
                                    things are too unsettled for you to be here as it now is I have an opportunity to
                                    either fight or run as occasion may require—I have written to James to
                                    let you have money as you will no doubt need it to buy clothing also I wrote to him
                                    to see and reimburse uncle Daniel—
                        do the best you can and be assured I will take care of myself—when I shall
                                    see you must depend on time & circumstances—but hope to bring you
                                    out again this fall—I never thought before I could send you such a
                                    journey alone but "circumstances alter cases" and I have done it
                                    and as yet do not reflect on myself for so doing and hope you will not
                        
                                    I am affectionately
                                    Yours
                                    A P Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    St. Joseph
                                    South Bend
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 6th 1832
                                
                        My Dear Viola,
                        I have written several letters to James & once or twice to you since you left
                                    but think it probable you have not recd any of them previous to this, as on my
                                    arrival here yesterday I was informed the mails were stoped in consequence of the
                                    Contractor having failed—to recapitulate the contents of all of them
                                    would be tedious and as they will probably come to hand sometime 
                                        Ill
                                    not undertake it—But can inform you that we have on the Door
                                    Praire survived our fright and all become pretty well satisfied there had been no
                                    real danger—
                        We at different times have had various reports and many of the people governed
                                    themselves accordingly and run away one day & back the next—your
                                    Husband has had courage enough to save his credit by remaining on the Praire during the war "through evil as well as good
                                    report"
                        The mails having stopped I have not heard from you since you left except when a few
                                    miles south of fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    — I hope you got to Fathers safe & if so am glad you
                                    are there for had you stopped at fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    —am told they are worse alarmed there than here & at 
                                        Goshen
                                     in 
                                        Elkhart
                                     they have sent an express to the Governor for troops to guard
                                    them— that it appears the further from real Danger the worse the news and
                                    greater the fears of the people—
                        
                        There is scarcly a settlement, Village or Praire in the whole country but what people
                                    have built fortifications, twentifications or tens—but
                                    generally when sufficiently alarmed to commence fortifying they would suffer their
                                    imaginations to picture danger in such colusus that they would run off before
                                    finishing any of them, consequently they (the twentifications) are a source of
                                    considerable merriment now that the War is over—
                        If James comes on and brings his family you may come along if you
                                    would rather do so but if satisfied I think it best you should stay there until such
                                    times as I can have a better house &c—and I think James had
                                    better leave his family— as our business is I cannot leave here until
                                    after James comes out unless there should be something the matter with you in which
                                    case write to me immediately—should you need it for any purpose
                                    don't hesitate to call on James for money—I have written to him
                                    that you would want some—I think if you are content Fathers will be the
                                    best place for you to stay at—
                        you may expect to hear from me frequently if the mails get to running again if not it
                                    will be only as opportunity may offer like the present of sending a letter into the
                                    settlement where there is a Post Office—this will probably be mailed at 
                                        Richmond
                                        Wayne County
                                    —I have been here two days on business and shall return home
                                    to day and shall wait with considerable anxiety untill I hear from you and that you
                                    are safe landed—write to me frequently as it will probably be some time
                                    before I see you but hope this will be the last time there will be a necessity for
                                    our being apart, I am getting tired of it. but it seems to be our fate
                        
                                    Yours Sincerely
                                    A P Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Dec. 6th 1836
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I wrote you on the 3d inst soon after my arrival in which I promised to write again
                                    in a few days—have nothing of importance to you to write
                        The Legislature have met electing their officers &c & to day Gov.
                                    [Noah] Noble delivered his message—To morrow the Electors meet &
                                    decide on their choice &c—The Election of a U.S. Senator will
                                    come on on Thursday & of Judges &c on friday & Saturday the
                                    result of which I design staying to see—& then I shall go to 
                                        Johnston County
                                     to see Mr. Prince which will take me two or three days—soon
                                    after which I  shall start for home &
                                    unless you hear from me to the contrary you may look for me home by the 20th—my health is & has been good
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Dec. 13th 1836
                                
                        Dear Viola,
                        When I last wrote I expected to be at home by the 20th and
                                    accordingly made my arrangements for starting to morrow morning, but in consequence
                                    of the thaw it is impossible to get along the 
                                        Michigan
                                     Road—I am therefore under the necessity of waiting until it
                                    freezes or thaws entirely through—as it is at present just thawed enough
                                    to let a horse break through—I have been unsuccessful in finding Mr.
                                    Prince—can hear nothing of him but on the contrary, from every
                                    information he has not been in this section of country since he left
                                    LaPorte—As I am now ready to return home, the time will seem long until I
                                    get there, particularly as I have not and am not likely to hear from you before I
                                    return—I am tired of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , tired of Politics, tired of witnessing the proceedings of the
                                    Legislature—tired of my old acquaintances that have
                                    forgot the meaning of the term— tired of my horse
                                    & have swapped him off and gave $15 to boot—tired of
                                    paying $2 per day and not living as well as at home—and mean
                                    to stay tired until I get home which will be as soon as the roads
                                    will let me come, therefore don't look for me until I come lest you get tired looking in vain.
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Buffalo
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 11th 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I arrived here this morning at 10 oclk. after being two nights and a day on the
                                    Lake—had a pleasant passage on the Lake although we had a considerable
                                    Blow from 2 oclk this morning enough to make the ladies on Board loose their
                                    breakfast —the Lake is not near the scarecrow I had been induced to
                                    believe it to be—
                        
                           
                                        Buffalo
                                     is a very pleasantly situated Town at the Eastern extreme of Lake 
                                        Erie
                                    , I shall not remain here however long enough to examine it
                                    particularly—where I shall write from next I don't know possibly
                                    from 
                                        Albany
                                     & perhaps not untill I reach 
                                        New York
                                     as I shall Travel very fast from this on— my health is like
                                    it always has been in traveling very good—  write to me often and let me know how you and the
                                    children are and you may expect to hear frequently from
                        
                                    Your Husband
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Albany N.Y.
                           
                                    July 15th 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola,
                        I arrived here this afternoon at 4 oclk being three days & two nights out
                                    from 
                                        Buffalo
                                     am now within 10 hours run by Steam Boat of the City of 
                                        New York
                                    ; and being anxious to pass down the North River by
                                    daylight I have concluded to lay by here untill to morrow morning and rest
                                    myself—I have had rather a pleasant trip across' the country
                                    from 
                                        Buffalo
                                     have seen a great quantity of very fine country well improved and some
                                    beautiful towns and Villges two of which (had I an income of $10,000 a
                                    year) I would be perfectly willing to move to and (I think) settle for
                                    life— they are Canandagua on Canandagua Lake
                                    & 
                                        Geneva
                                     on Senaca Lake—inland Lakes of this great, the Empire State of 
                                        New York
                                    —
                                        Rochester
                                     likewise is a very pleasant place with about 15,000 inhabitants this
                                    place is situated at the falls of Genessee of "Sam Patch"
                                    notoriety and is noted for its extensive flour mills—
                        My health continues good and my spirits too, except when I think of the
                                    "long Scotch miles that lay between me and my Deary O."
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr.
                                
                        Tell James to write to me and let me know as near as he can what wheat may
                                    probably be had for after harvest delivery at 
                                        Michigan City
                                     for good cash
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 17th 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        At last I am in the great City of 
                                        New York
                                    —the emporium of the United states I arrived here yesterday
                                    evening and have been looking on this fore noon—it is a great
                                    city— yet it falls far short of my expectations—it lies so
                                    level & there is such a sameness in the buildings and streets that travel
                                    were [sic] you may it still presents what you have seen or what is
                                    so similar that one might be led to believe he was traveling over the same grounds a
                                    longer residence and more familiaraty may change my "first
                                    impressions" and enable me to distinguish the different parts and see it as
                                    it is  a tremendious City Where all the wealth and all the poverty are strangely thrown
                                    together—where many of the Virtues and probably all the vices of our
                                    nature are to be met with—
                        And perhaps nothing has struck me with as much force as the travelling females since
                                    I came into 
                                        New York State
                                    — nothing but women and Band Boxes in every
                                    stage, every rail Road Car & Every Steam Boat—Verily the men are
                                    more indulgent here, or the Ladies have more power of asserting and maintaining
                                    their rights than they have in the "far West"
                                    —But one thing is certain they have not got many very pretty women here
                                    or if they have the pretty ones stay at home
                        having done nothing as yet toward my mission I can say nothing about returning shall
                                    probably visit 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     in a few days but will make 
                                        New York
                                     my head quarters where I hope to hear from you
                                    frequently—tell Maria & James2 pa will bring
                                    them pretty pictures when he comes home if they are good children and Maria goes to
                                    school & learns well—
                        
                                    Yours &c
                                    A P Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday afternoon July 22nd 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola,
                        I have devoted the past week to the object of my mission but with no very flattering
                                    prospects ahead of me of success— but of this mum. I have written the
                                    particulars to Genl Orr3 and if he sees proper to make it public
                                    so be it but my own view of the subject is that we can't tell here,
                                    "what a day may bring forth" in the money market consequently it
                                    will have no good effect at home either to raise their expectations or arouse their
                                    fears—I expect to keep Genl Orr advised of the state of affairs as
                                    "I understand them" from time to time—My present
                                    impression is that nothing can be done here for some 3 or 4 months and if after
                                    Visiting Phildelphia (which I expect to do this week) I shall continue of the same
                                    opinion—the probability is I shall return home and come back here in the
                                    fall or winter if it is the wish of my employers that I should make a second
                                    attempt—Then and that case 
                              
                                 2 Maria and James Andrew were Abraham
                                            Andrew's two oldest children. Edith J. Backus, "Abraham
                                            Piatt Andrew, Jr." (Unpublished manuscript, 
                                                La Porte
                                             Historical Society, 1940), 92.
                              
                                 3 General Joseph Orr was president of the 
                                                Buffalo
                                             & 
                                                Mississippi
                                             Railroad and a prominent citizen of 
                                                La Porte County
                                            . Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                                                    Michigan City
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Michigan City
                                             [?], 1908), 73, 81, 210, 216–17; Backus,
                                            "Andrew," 76.
                           
                                     (strange as it may appear) I shall bring you
                                    along and then I will be willing to remain here just as long a time as they are
                                    willing to foot the bill—but not otherwise
                        From what I can see and learn the times are unusually dull here the hot weather has
                                    caused many of that class that my business is with to leave the City for the
                                    different watering places and this will be the case for a month or more to come and
                                    I feel as though I would like to be off too—not to the watering places
                                    but to you and our dear little children tell them their pa frequently thinks about them and when he comes
                                    back he will "Kiss" them and bring them pretty pictures and books
                        I forwarded this morning two news papers without having any particular object in view
                                    and perhaps shall continue to forward a paper occasionally as that will be a short
                                    way of writing to you that I am well—
                        I have stoped at the Astor House and will probably do so on my return from
                                    Phildelphia—I have not read as yet a line from you or any of my
                                    friends—do write Viola and let me know how you and the little
                                    "Toads" are—direct to 
                                        New York
                                     as I shall make this my head quarters—you have no idea, yes
                                    you have, the satisfaction it would be to me to hear from you, and
                                        ours
                        
                        
                                    Your Husband
                                    A P Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Thursday Evening Aug 2nd 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I returned here yesterday from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    —had rather a pleasant trip the heat excepted—have
                                    nothing particular to write—have not read anything from
                                    you—read a letter from Genl. Orr this morning dated 20 July says you are
                                    all well, that is the first word from home since I left—when I write
                                    again think I will be able to sett the time of starting home—and next
                                    time I come here if you don't write to me better than you have done this
                                    time 
                                        Ill
                                    bring you along and then I guess 
                                        Ill
                                    know how you are—so you had better write to your dearly beloved.
                        
                                    
                                        Husband
                                    
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Augt 6th 1838
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I read yours of the 22nd ult. by Mr. Wheeler and perused its contents with a great
                                    deal of satisfaction—am willing to take your apoligy for not writing
                                    sooner but think "our friends" rather "green" to
                                    think a letter would not reach me at 
                                        New York
                                     without a consignee—I think am (from the nature of my
                                    business) as noted in Wall Street as the "Bulls and
                                    Bears"—aye and at the post office too—for I have
                                    enquired often enough for letters—I am in excellent health and think I
                                    will start home about next Sunday or Monday—and if any thing should occur
                                    that I do not, I will write—tell sis & Bub pa will bring them
                                    pretty pictures and a pretty one for Ma too
                        
                                    Yr Husband
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Buffalo
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apl 22 1839
                                
                        Dear Viola,
                        To comply with my promise in the letter of this morning I now write you—I
                                    shall leave this evening at or after 6 oclock in the stage
                        I have purchased and paid for grave stones4 for our dear little
                                    James—they will be done and go on with Wheelers goods—the
                                    design is to be at the top a Weeping Willow, an urn with a little girl (intended for
                                    his sister) inclining against it—a raise oval below with the inscription
                                    &c—price $16—white marble—My
                                    progress from here will be rapid and perhaps not afford me an opportunity of again
                                    writing before I reach 
                                        Albany
                                    —
                        The Bank I wrote you this morning was broke is the "Manufacturing Bank of
                                    Bellville" and not Belview as I wrote it—
                        The stage starts in a few minutes good Bye until you hear from
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  4 Abraham Andrew's son James died probably during the winter of
                        1838–1839. Backus, "Andrew," 92.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 11th 1839
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I know not what to write you, being myself just at this time in a kind of
                                    quandary—I have but little, aye I may say no hopes of carrying out the
                                    negotiation I had in View when I wrote you under date 5th Inst.—Therefore
                                    all my visions relative to my return 1st June have all exploded—But it
                                    may truly be said of 
                                        New York
                                     "there is no knowing what a day may bring
                                    forth"—and although I have not yet read a letter from home I
                                    will write home often—And come home by and
                                    by—The first news I have had from home is to day in a letter from Mr.
                                    Traver[?] to Wheeler in which he says, "you & Maria are well
                                    & Mary5 is mending very fast"—Mr.
                                    Wheeler leaves for home this evening & will be the bearer of
                                    this—I wish I could accompany him—don't you?
                        
                                    Yours you know
                           
                                    A.P. Andrew Jr
                                
                        I send by Mr. Wheeler 12yds Muslin De Loin[?] for you a
                                        Dress—'tis the rage
                            I have forwarded
                                    by Wheelers goods several things for you— 2 or 3 dark Calico—2
                                    Books—some toys for Maria all of which are directed to care of
                                    Traver— There is also 2 parasols one for you & one for
                                    Cousin Catherine6—it is the present fashion and is
                                    called a "Shade" Tell Catherine her uncle didn't send it
                                    because she was a little girl—as its size would indicate but because it
                                    is all the rage or Ton here you will see it has a joint near the top and is used as
                                    a shade to the face only Tell Maria her pa has sent her a whole sett of Dinner
                                    & Kitchen ware by Wheeler goods & there may be
                                    more of her order when he (pa) comes home—I wish I was there
                                    now—don't you?—
                                    A—
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 29 1839
                                
                        Dear Viola
                        I am in possession of no further information relative to my business than when I
                                    wrote to you last Sunday—consequently can set no time for starting
                                    home—although I am convinced that our business can be as well attended to
                                    without 
                              
                                 5 This is probably Mary Drew, the orphaned daughter of
                                            Viola's sister who lived with the Andrews. Backus,
                                            "Andrew," 36.
                              
                                 6 Probably Catherine Andrew who was the daughter of
                                            Abraham Andrew's brother James. Ibid., 62.
                           
                                     me as with me—yet the Board expects
                                    me to remain and attend to it in person—They little know my anxiety to
                                    return home—nor could I I suppose convince them that to remain will be of
                                    little use—I could tell them I do want to see Viola & Maria
                                    "So bad"—that "I hav't seen them for
                                    a long time"—but they could not appreciate my
                                        feelings on that subject and I think it would be as well not to trouble
                                    them with it—But in truth Viola I think if you would exercise a little
                                    more government over me when at home it would be better for us both—you
                                    have the power to keep me there & you know it—perhaps that is the
                                    reason you don't exercise it—I ought not to leave
                                    you—there is no necessity for it— and yet I do it time
                                    & again—with my eyes open to the consequences —Why, do
                                    I do it—I don't know truly—it is fate!
                                        fate!! fate ! ! !
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A P Andrew Jr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Albany
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov 22 1839
                                
                        Dear Viola.
                        I arrived here last evening all is well except the "Beef
                                    Operation"—I called this morning on the Agent of the line of
                                    Canal Boats by which I shipped the Beef from 
                                        Buffalo
                                     and learn that 300 Bbls have passed on—399 Bbls that ought
                                    to have been here yesterday is detained a few miles above in the Canal in
                                    consequence of a Breach in the Canal— They are repairing the Breach But
                                    the weather is so cold it is very doubtful if they let the water
                                    in again this fall—the consequence will be that 609 of the Beef will not
                                    get through untill next april
                        I will remain here untill I ascertain what will be the result & then proceed
                                    to 
                                        New York
                                    —if the Canal is closed for the winter—all I can
                                    do is to make Sale of the 300 Bbls that has got through & then return
                                    home—and come back in the Spring to attend to the rest of
                                    it—It would have been better for me if I had been satisfied with
                                    "well enough" and left matters & things to those who
                                    wanted to do "Better"— But 'tis useless to
                                    reflect—"'tis so & can't be no
                                    'tiser"
                        
                                    Yours
                                    A. P. Andrew Jr.
                                
                        Tell Maria pa will get home bye & Bye and will be glad to learn that
                                    she has improved in reading &c—
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The French, the Indians, and George Rogers Clark in the 
                            Illinois
                         Country: Proceedings of an Indiana American Revolution Bicentennial Symposium. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1977. Pp. xi, 105. Notes, ilustration, maps, table.
                    Paperbound, $2.00.)
            This small volume publishes the papers presented at the second Indiana American Revolution
                    Bicentennial Symposium, held at 
                        Vincennes
                     University in May, 1976, and jointly sponsored by the Indiana American Revolution
                    Bicentennial Commission and the Indiana Historical Society. The transformation from lecture to essay
                    was smoothly made—the essays being uniformly well written and the book reflecting the
                    high editorial standards of the Indiana Historical Society.
            The lead essay by John Francis McDermott is a defense of the early French colonists of the 
                        Illinois County
                    . McDermott proposes that far from being the "restless misfits and lawless
                    adventures" portrayed in early travel accounts, the French settlers were actually
                    "energetic men of business, substantial farmers, and people of education and
                    culture…" (pp. 26–27). While he presents considerable evidence to
                    support his contention, McDermott's main purpose is to urge others to search out the true
                    history of the French common folk in local manuscript records: marriage contracts, estate
                    inventories, business and legal documents. To aid in this work he presents a brief bibliographic
                    guide to published and manuscript sources on the daily lives of individual settlers.
            George C. Chalou's essay is an excellent account of George Rogers Clark's impact on
                    the Indian tribes of the Old Northwest. Without attempting to either debunk or exaggerate
                    Clark's achievements, Chalou traces the fluctuating fortunes of both red and white men
                    along the Revolutionary frontier. He concludes that Clark managed to achieve a stalemate with the
                    Indians, neutralizing some and antagonizing others. This was no small accomplishment considering
                    Clark's resources.
            George M. Waller presents an overview of American strategy in the West during the Revolution. Waller
                    concludes that while Clark failed in his main objective of capturing 
                        Detroit
                     he succeeded in "intimidating large numbers of Indians and thereby protecting
                    the American settlements" (p. 62)—a conclusion that partially contradicts
                    Chalou's essay.  The evidence is rather overwhelming
                    that Clark did not "win" the West for the new nation, and Waller can only present
                    the next best argument—that Clark managed not to lose it either.
            Dwight Smith's essay places Clark's campaigns within the context of the 
                        Paris
                     peace negotiations and shows that the winning of the West owed more to Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    's wiles and the international balance of power than to Clark's
                    heroics.
            John H. Long uses Clark's campaign as a case study to show how useful maps can be in
                    understanding historical events and how dangerous they can be to the unwary. Long contends that the
                    cartographic dimension affords "a better perspective not only on historical events
                    themselves but also on what they could and did mean to contemporaries and under what
                    circumstances" (p. 86).
            To the lay reader who knows nothing of this period these essays will be of little use, since they
                    assume considerable background knowledge. The scholar specializing in this area will likewise find
                    the essays of marginal use since they present little that will not be familiar. However, that large
                    body of readers in between, especially those interested in this fascinating era of Indiana history,
                    will find these essays most informative.
            
                    
                  
                            Utah
                         State University, Logan
                
            Paul A. Hutton
         
         
            
               The Railroad and the City: A Technological and Urbanistic History of 
                            Cincinnati
                        
               . By Carl W. Condit. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1977. Pp. xii, 335. Illustrations, notes, tables, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            Most historians know Carl W. Condit as a distinguished specialist on the evolution of 
                        Chicago
                     building techniques and architecture. In The Railroad and the City he
                    returns with obvious pleasure to the city where he spent his first thirty-one years. The result is a
                    detailed and scientifically sophisticated history of in-town railroad facilities in the 
                        Queen City
                     of the West.
            The strengths of the book are clear. It is first a work of meticulous scholarship on the
                    technological development of 
                        Cincinnati
                     railroads. The central interpretive theme is the influence of 
                        Cincinnati
                    's topography—its river, its stream valleys, and its
                    hills—on the design of railroad terminals, bridges, belt lines, and electric railway
                    systems. Although  residents of soggy 
                        New Orleans
                     or quake-shaken 
                        San Francisco
                     might argue, he makes a strong case that "no 
                        American city
                     has been more profoundly shaped by its geological history" (p. xi). The major
                    thrust of the narrative concerns repeated efforts to find a suitable site and adequate financial
                    support for a single union station, efforts which culminated in the opening of the magnificent 
                        Cincinnati
                     Union Terminal in 1933. The final chapter on the Union Terminal project, which relates
                    specific decisions to the state of the art in railroad engineering and to 
                        Cincinnati
                    's continuing importance as a gateway for interregional rail traffic, is
                    especially wide-ranging.
            Because Condit is most interested in the technical problems of bringing railroads into a compact
                    city, the book does not meet the promise of its subtitle. There is no clear definition for the word
                    "urbanistic" ("pertaining to the urban way of life" and
                    "pertaining to city planning" are dictionary alternatives) and no
                    "history of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ." Indicative of the narrow focus is the very limited use made of 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspapers, of booster literature, or of scholarship on local politics and government.
                    There are references to the impact of railroad location on central commercial activities,
                    manufacturing, and suburban housing, but no analysis of the interrelationships. Nor is there
                    attention to entrepreneurial decisions behind nineteenth century company organization, to changing
                    visions of the city's future held by its elite, to the activities of city planners and
                    administrators in the twentieth century, or to other aspects of the political and economic context
                    for railroad building. With his eyes fixed on the track ahead, Condit also ignores the impact of
                    river trade on land use patterns and underestimates the importance of the 
                        Miami
                    -
                        Erie
                     Canal (the paragraph on the canal [pp. 5–6] contains six misleading
                    statements or errors of fact).
            Condit and the 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press have performed a service to scholars in their production
                    decisions. Fifty-two maps and pictures strongly support the text. Forty-eight pages of detailed
                    notes and twenty-two pages of appended information digest a voluminous technical literature of
                    corporate reports and railroad journals and make obscure data accessible to historians and train
                    buffs alike.
            In general evaluation, The Railroad and the City is weakest on the first generation
                    of railroad building, a period for which technical data are limited and for which an exclusive
                    attention to rail transport is misleading. It is strongest on 
                    the period 1880–1930 when 
                        Cincinnati
                     railroad men faced important technical decisions about bridges, depots, connecting
                    lines, interurban railways, and rapid transit facilities. In the context of urban history, the
                    closest parallel to Condit's book is Walter Muir Whitehill's 
                  
                            Boston
                        : A Topographical History, another affectionate portrayal of the relations
                    between city dwellers and their landscape.
            
                    Old Dominion University, 
                            Norfolk
                        , Va.
                
            Carl Abbott
         
         
            
               The Education of an Urban Minority: Catholics in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1833–1965. By James W. Sanders. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1977. Pp. xviii, 278. Tables, maps, notes, note on sources,
                    appendixes, index. $13.95.)
            Progressivism was as much a social as a political movement, and nowhere was its influence more potent
                    than in education. Historians have alternately praised (Lawrence Cremin) and condemned (David Tyack)
                    the progressive movement for efficiency, centralized organization, and control by experts that
                    dominated public schools in the early twentieth century. But the exclusive emphasis on the
                    Protestant dominated public systems has wholly obscured the parallel development in metropolitan
                    Catholic schools. This book helps redress the balance. Although James W. Sanders hurries over the
                    explicit parallels, his thorough research in archival records, parish histories, and rich Catholic
                    newspaper files provides enough evidence for a major broadening of our conception of progressivism.
            With half 
                        Chicago
                    's population to draw upon, though only a fraction of the city's
                    wealth, the parochial schools grew even more rapidly than the public schools. Before 1915 the story
                    was one of brick and mortar on the one hand, and traditional rivalries on the other. Not only did
                    the Catholics war against the threat to their culture represented by the public schools, but they
                    also fought internal wars along ethnic lines. Sanders, writing essentially a political history of
                    the struggles for ethnic identity, gives a clear, if repetitive image of parish power in the largest
                    Catholic archdiocese.
            With Harper, Dewey, Addams, Parker, Young, and Wirt giving the 
                        Chicago
                     area the supremacy in educational leadership once held by 
                        Berlin
                    , it is surprising only that the city's Catholic leaders were so slowly
                    infected with reformist zeal. The situation changed dramatically in 1915 when George Mundelein began
                    his quarter century tenure as archbishop.  Emphasizing the need
                    for uniformity in an era of heavy intracity migration, Mundelein centralized control of the parish
                    schools in his own hands. His building committee decided where new schools would be located, while
                    his school board standardized curricula, textbooks, teacher training, testing, and educational
                    policy. Simultaneously the Catholics gained significant power within the public system, thus
                    deescalating the long unproductive cultural war.
            Mundelein did not, however, centralize control over the secondary and higher schools. Instead he
                    reversed the trend toward parish high schools and fostered the private high schools, run by
                    semi-independent religious orders, that to this day are the pride of 
                        Chicago
                    's Catholics. Lack of lay leadership troubled Mundelein—in World War
                    I, a third of the privates were Catholic, but only 5 percent of the officers. Mundelein had no
                    solution to the problem. The laity had no voice; their role was to produce more money and more
                    souls.
            
                    University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  , and Newberry Library
                
            Richard Jensen
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        : Creating New Traditions. By Perry Duis. (
                        Chicago
                    : 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society, 1976. Pp. 144. End maps, illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    index. Clothbound, $12.50; paperbound, $7.95.)
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        : Creating New Traditions is a companion to the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society's bicentennial exhibit, which sought to define, describe,
                    and interpret 
                        Chicago
                    's special role in the transformation of America from a rural, agricultural
                    society into an urban, industrial nation. The book is a collection of exhibit material, but unlike
                    many exhibit guides, it is organized around an excellent interpretive text written by Perry Duis.
            In most respects, this is a fine book. The exhibit included a variety of materials chosen to
                    illustrate major features of 
                        Chicago
                    's innovative late nineteenth and early twentieth century environment.
                    Chicagoans' contributions to architecture, urban planning, literature, social reform, and
                    the merchandising of goods and culture are given separate treatment. Duis does justice to the
                    material. His essays provide descriptive overviews of each of these subjects, but he goes beyond
                    mere description. The essays attempt to place people, institutions, and innovations into the social
                    and intellectual climate of their times and to define 
                        Chicago
                    's particular contributions  in their
                    national context. Duis is especially successful at avoiding a parochial or antiquarian approach to
                    the material. The result is a happy combination of description and insight. A brief bibliography
                    provides suggestions for readers interested in further exploring 
                        Chicago
                    's past.
            There are, however, two unfortunate gaps in 
                  
                            Chicago
                        : Creating New Traditions. 
                        Chicago
                    's political, ethnic, religious, and racial culture is consistently ignored,
                    save for several scattered references. And no attempt is made to explain why 
                        Chicago
                    's peculiarly innovative role as an urban environment all but disappeared after
                    World War I. Nevertheless, the book deserves to be regarded by the general reader as an excellent
                    introduction to some of 
                        Chicago
                    's major contributions to modern American life.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Ralph Janis
         
         
            
               Northwestern University: A History, 1815–1975. By Harold F.
                    Williamson and Payson S. Wild. (
                        Evanston
                    , Ill.: Northwestern University, 1976. Pp. xiii, 403. Illustrations, notes, tables,
                    appendixes, bibliography, indexes. Clothbound, $12.50; paperbound, $4.75.)
            This volume will replace A Pictorial History of Northwestern University,
                        1851–1951—an able account based largely upon an unpublished
                    manuscript by James A. James—as the most useful history of this private Big Ten
                    institution. The primary advantage of the newer work is its thorough treatment of the recent period.
                    Indeed almost one half of its pages discuss the years since 1939.
            Both authors served at Northwestern from the late 1940s until their recent retirements. Harold F.
                    Williamson is an economist and past president of the Economic History Association, while Payson S.
                    Wild is a political scientist who was the chief academic officer of the school from 1949 to 1973.
            Williamson and Wild succeed more in presenting their material skillfully than in always selecting the
                    most important developments to report. Their prose is clear, their use of quotations in the
                    narrative and illustrations (seventy-five pages of photographs) is unusually delightful in its
                    effect, and the quality and thoroughness of the reference aids are noteworthy; yet the authors give
                    excessive attention to the details of academic organizational structure and financial and physical
                    plant growth at the expense of the dynamic workings of the academic and religious programs. Only
                    infrequently  do they even briefly discuss the
                    "inside-the-classroom" learning processes and the effect upon the
                    students' development of the university's historic, if informal, connection with
                    the Methodist Church.
            The most engaging parts of the book are the descriptions of unique or unusual events in the
                    university's past: the determination of John Evans (for whom 
                        Evanston
                     is named) and the other founders that this institution should become the Methodist university in the northwestern region of the country and their subsequent
                    efforts to realize this goal by acquiring the funds necessary to obtain a very large campus and
                    other sizeable real estate holdings in and near the most rapidly developing city in nineteenth
                    century America; the success of several presidents in enlisting the philanthropy of 
                        Chicago
                    's growing number of wealthy business families, including Gustav Swift, William
                    Deering, Elbert 
                  Gary, Montgomery
                Ward, and Walter Murphy; the purchase in 1920 and the
                    development of the 
                        Chicago
                     campus; the serious merger negotiations with the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in the 1930s; the conversion of the campus into a primarily navy training center for
                    50,000 men and women—including John F. Kennedy—during World War II; the
                    development of the Lakefill Campus (seventy-four acres) extension into Lake 
                        Michigan
                     in the 1960s; and the student protest movement of recent years.
            The book gives much attention to comparing the quality of Northwestern with other institutions. If
                    the authors are unduly preoccupied with measuring the continuing efforts of Northwestern to
                    "catch-up" with the prestigious universities, perhaps they can be forgiven for
                    they have a remarkable success story to tell. By many standards of measurement
                    —endowment, physical plant, faculty salaries and research skills, and reputation of
                    professional schools and graduate departments—Northwestern now stands as one of the
                    leading universities in America. Few private institutions as young as Northwestern can match its
                    resources and reputation.
            
                    Taylor University, Upland
                
            William C. Ringenberg
         
         
            
               The Roads They Made: Women in 
                            Illinois
                         History. By Adade 
                        Mitchell
                     Wheeler and Marlene Stein Wortman. (
                        Chicago
                    : Charles H. Kerr Publishing Company, 1977. Pp. 213. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Cloth-bound, $10.00; paperbound, $3.95.)
            
            In their effort of rescue 
                        Illinois
                     women from secondary and subservient roles, Adade Wheeler and Marlene Stein Wortman
                    have undertaken an ambitious task—"to describe the contributions of many
                    different groups of women and to relate them to the larger process of historical
                    development" (p. 12). Acknowledging that their work has been hampered by a dearth of
                    readily available research and travels "only a few of the main highways" (p. 12),
                    the authors nonetheless produce a useful compilation (unfortunately marred by careless editing)
                    which spans 
                        Illinois
                     history from Indian days through today's continuing struggle for equal rights.
            The assertion that "sisterly" organizational activity, either formal or informal,
                    has preceded social and political changes in women's roles is central to the book. Given
                    this focus, it is not surprising that the first three chapters, in which Wheeler traces 
                        Illinois
                     women through the Civil War years, are the weakest, for organized efforts in this
                    period were rare. Following a sketch of white images of Indian women, Wheeler praises the
                    "support system" (p. 34) frontier women provided, yet portrays them as
                    "without choice and relegated to a life full of hardship" (p. 23). The possibility
                    of true partnership with their husbands, of cooperative striving toward common familial goals, is
                    unjustifiably dismissed. Wheeler also finds women in supportive roles during the Civil War. Here,
                    however, women's contributions to the Union cause, as in the Sanitary Commission,
                    introduced them to the world outside the home and, Wheeler argues, were thus more useful in
                    awakening their consciousness of women's issues than was frontier life.
            The most successful and most fully documented chapters are the last two, treating the period from
                    1870 to the present. Relying heavily upon the theses of scholars such as William Chafe, Wheeler and
                    Wortman illustrate how women in 
                        Illinois
                     emerged from their particular province, the home. The authors place major emphasis on
                    legal, social, and economic advancement by educated, often economically independent, middle class
                    women, initially as a means to the improvement of the larger society and then as an end for women
                    themselves. Interwoven with this story is that of working class women, forced out of necessity into
                    the world and often more concerned with protection than equality. In the final section of the
                    narrative, the authors describe the ways in which groups of 
                        Illinois
                     women are presently organizing to secure such diverse ends as passage of the Equal
                    Rights Amendment,  community involvement in neighborhood
                    planning, and better treatment of rape victims. The variety captures the amorphous, fragmented
                    nature of today's women's movement, in 
                        Illinois
                    , as well as the nation.
            Six "Essays in Practice," descriptions of current efforts written by women active
                    in them, follow the main text. While interesting and of possible value to future historians, these
                    essays unfortunately stand isolated from the general history and each other.
            This slim volume will be most useful to classroom teachers seeking specific information on active or
                    prominent women in 
                        Illinois
                     history. Those searching for detail on "ordinary," ethnic, or
                    minority women or for new approaches to state and local history will have to look elsewhere. And
                    scholars interested in original conceptualizations will find few.
            
                    Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            DeKalb
                        
               
                
            Barbara M. Posadas
         
         
            
               Heart of the Valley: A History of 
                     Knoxville, Tennessee
                  
               .
                    By the 
                        Knoxville
                     History Committee, East 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society. Edited by Lucile Deaderick. (
                        Knoxville
                    : East 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society, 1976. Pp. xiii, 701. Notes, map, illustrations, tables, appendixes,
                    index. $15.00.)
            The decision to publish this work as a companion volume to a thirty year old study (Mary U. Rothrock,
                    ed., The French Broad-Holston Country: A History of 
                     Knox County, Tennessee
                  
                [1946]) and as the East 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society's contribution to the nation's bicentennial, was
                    made in early 1974—hardly time enough for such as task. The publishers confess to certain
                    omissions: none of the articles has as its subject race relations or the contributions of 
                        Knoxville
                    's black residents, the labor movement, the churches, medicine, or the impact
                    of federal agencies on the city. "Competent and willing authors" (p. vi) were
                    either unavailable, or others, lamentably, failed to produce as promised. Of the fifteen
                    contributors—volunteers all since the work was without funding—seven have
                    University of 
                        Tennessee
                     connections and two are librarians. A city planner, public school official, an art
                    gallery director, a former Tennessee Valley Authority official, a journalist,
                    and a businessman complete the roster.
            Since the work is, after all, a history, it is astonishing that no historians participated. Their
                    absence helps explain certain inadequacies of the work. The large library of works  in urban studies produced in the last half century is totally ignored.
                    Rarely is 
                        Knoxville
                     placed in a regional or national context. For example, the author of the chapter
                    "Community Organizations" in treating the formation of Associated Charities in
                    1888 states: "Apparently… it was conceived that [Associated Charities] would
                    serve to bring about cooperation among the various benevolent societies, church, and individuals and
                    their charities" (p. 343). The Charity Organization Society movement, of which 
                        Knoxville
                    's effort was part, was more than a matter of appearances. Originating in 
                        London
                     in 1869 and taking root in America in 
                        Buffalo
                     in 1877, its whole purpose was to serve as a city's central record bureau for
                    existing benevolent societies to keep the "worthy poor" from living well on
                    indiscriminate, overlapping alms. This lack of wider historical knowledge is also exhibited in the
                    essays on government, utilities, the media, and education.
            There are other problems. Too heavy is the debt of the writers to the Rothrock study and to William
                    Rule's Standard History of 
                     Knoxville, Tennessee
                  
               
                    (1900). The essay "Writers and Literary Clubs" is uninspired and has surprising
                    space imbalances. Thirteen lines go to Frances Hodgson, the creator of Little Lord
                        Fauntleroy (1886) with seven lines each, mostly titles of some of their works, to Joseph
                    Wood Krutch and James Agee. While one learns that Hodgson and her sisters "picked wild
                    grapes to sell in the market" for paper and postage "to send off her
                    stories" (p. 448), no mention is made of Agee's pioneer film criticism. He is
                    titled "perhaps [!] the most famous of 
                        Knoxville
                     writers" (p. 449). "Commerce and Industry" is dismissed in
                    four unsubstantiated pages and contains the exaggerated assertion that Knoxville is a
                    "great business and industrial city…" (p. 413).
            The lead essay, "
                        Knoxville
                    's History: An Interpretation," though not very interpretive and
                    slimly buttressed by citation, is well-written and useful. "Transportation
                    Development" is competently done as are articles on the theater, on architecture, and on
                    the fine arts. The best essays are "Government" and "Banking
                    Developments, 1811–1976." The former, marked by an assiduous use of primary
                    sources, will be invaluable to other students. The bank study, written by a professor emeritus of
                    finance, includes the explanations necessary to clarify an often arcane subject.
            A long section on "Prominent Knoxvillians" includes biographical material on
                    individuals only four of whom are well-known—Agee, Krutch, the man who invented the  "Dempster Dumpster," and General Robert
                    Neyland, a former football coach, now deceased. There are forty pages of appendixes and more than
                    120 photographs. Whatever its weaknesses and while indeed "the study of 
                        Knoxville
                    's history has only begun" (p. 66) most of the articles contain useful
                    leads to future researchers.
            
                    Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            William J. Doherty
         
         
            
               The Return of 
                            Lafayette
                        , 1824–1825. By Marian Klamkin. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1975. Pp. vii, 212. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $12.50.)
            
               
                        Lafayette
                    's triumphal tour of America in 1824–1825 was one of the most
                    emotional, symbol laden, and culturally significant of all the patriotic events of the first half of
                    the nineteenth century, and as such it has had an understandable and enduring fascination for
                    historians, for history buffs, and for collectors of patriotic memorabilia. Marian Klamkin, whose
                    previously published works include White House 
                            China
                        
                and American Patriotic and Political 
                            China
                        
               , is an authority on patriotic collectibles. In The Return of 
                            Lafayette
                        
               , she has demonstrated again her interest in patriotic mementoes; she has
                    illustrated the book with eighty black and white photos which provide examples of some of the
                    multitudinous medals, ribbons, buttons, flasks, plates, platters, plaques, jugs, pitchers, and the
                    like which were created to memorialize 
                        Lafayette
                    's visit.
            But mostly Klamkin's book is a day by day and town by town description of the tour itself,
                    one which draws heavily upon the published account of Auguste Levasseur, 
                        Lafayette
                    's secretary and traveling companion. Readers learn that Lafayette arrived in a
                    given town in the early morning, was huzzahed in word and music, attended a military review, a
                    banquet, and the theater, greeted scores, and ended up going to bed much later than intended, only
                    to arise early the next morning to set out for the next town, where a similar welcome awaited him.
                    And on and on it goes. What is lacking here is any sustained attempt on the author's part
                    to go beyond the superficial details of the trip to get at its deeper cultural meaning. The
                    unfortunate result of this is that Klamkin's account of 
                        Lafayette
                    's return, unlike the event itself, soon seems repetitious and even tedious.
            The full cultural meaning of 
                        Lafayette
                    's tour has yet to be delineated, but Klamkin would have profited greatly from
                         a more careful study of such recent works as Anne C. Love-
                    land's Emblem of Liberty: The Image of 
                            Lafayette
                         in the American Mind (1971), which appears in Klamkin's bibliography,
                    and Fred Somkin's Unquiet Eagle: Memory and Desire in the Idea of American
                        Freedom, 1815–1860 (1967), which does not. The present-day reader who is asked
                    to follow 
                        Lafayette
                    's grueling itineray needs greater insight than Klamkin has provided. An
                    abiding sense of the tour's meaning was, after all, what sustained the participants
                    themselves. Without that sense the tour would have been just one long and tedious ordeal both for 
                        Lafayette
                     and for the American people.
            Thus while Klamkin's book will be of some limited interest to its two intended
                    audiences—collectors of patriotic memorabilia and students of the American
                    past—there is still a need for a scholarly book-length study focusing solely on the
                    profound cultural meaning of 
                        Lafayette
                    's return.
            
                    Marquette University, Milwaukee
                
            Robert P. Hay
         
         
            
               With Malice Toward None: The Life of Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        
               . By Stephen B. Gates. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Row, Publishers, 1977. Pp. xvii, 492. Illustrations, reference notes,
                    index. $15.95.)
            An author of several expertly written books on mid-nineteenth century America, Stephen B. Gates has
                    now put together a one-volume biography of 
                        Lincoln
                     which general readers and some specialists will find quite attractive. It is similar to
                    the portrait of the Civil War President by Benjamin Thomas, so popular over the past twenty-five
                    years; and though it is no better in many respects, it draws upon the mass of literature published
                    from the early 1950s to the present, so that in this sense it is a fresh study. Like Thomas, Gates
                    does not footnote in the customary way but at the end of the volume refers to various sources, most
                    of them printed, that support segments of his story. Whether this technique helps or hinders the
                    reader may be a matter of opinion; this reviewer does not feel helped as much as he would wish.
            The principal merit of the work is undoubtedly its colorful, often exciting style which achieves
                    dramatic effect. Personal characterizations and skillful descriptions of scenes and events enhance
                    interest in the narrative—it is narrative more than analysis and interpretation. Still,
                    the author has a solid footing in general history and Lincolniana, enabling him to  avoid any noteworthy misstep. Among: instances of high literary quality
                    are his account of the debates with Douglas and his portrayal of 
                        Lincoln
                    's daily routine and private life in the White House. Especially absorbing is
                    his detailed handling of the last days and hours of the assassinated chief executive.
            Gates depicts young 
                        Lincoln
                     somewhat as the latter's friend Billy Herndon did: a human being not a saint,
                    not immune from anger, earthy language and anecdotes, pride, and driving ambition. As a rising 
                        Illinois
                     lawyer, married to an upper-class Kentuckian, he wanted to forget his humble background
                    and related miseries. For example, he disliked being called Abe, which must have reminded him of
                    that period. By the 1840s and 1850s he had gained a respectable standing in the legal profession and
                    in Whig politics as well, indeed was a powerful leader of his party in the state.
            Gates' 
                        Lincoln
                     of the presidential years very much resembles the figure found in Randall's
                    enduring study. He was dedicated to maintenance of the Union at all costs, resisted Radical (here
                    labeled "liberal") pressure for emancipation of the slaves until he felt the time
                    was ripe, and was his own best general in prosecuting the war. A departure from older perspectives
                    is a far more sympathetic and extensive treatment of the role of blacks, particularly their
                    substantial contribution to victory on the field of battle. And the author straddles the fence
                    between Randall and Herndon with regard to Mary 
                        Lincoln
                    , viewed as a loving wife albeit an unstable, tempestuous one.
            On the whole, then, this is a highly interesting narrative, generally dependable, though cautious
                    where it ventures interpretation. It will probably be a staple of Civil War biography and history
                    for a long while.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Politics or Principle: Congressional Voting on the Civil War Amendments and Pro-Negro
                        Measures, 1838–1869. By Glenn M. Linden (
                        Seattle
                    : University of 
                        Washington
                     Press, 1976. Pp. xvii, 88. Alphabetical listing of congressmen referred to in text,
                    notes, tables, appendix, bibliography. $12.50.)
            This is a thin book, both physically and substantively. Less than twenty-three of its eighty-eight
                    pages are devoted to text, and much of the remainder is devoted to lists of congressmen  and senators repeated in different orderings along with their state,
                    party affiliation, and voting record on roll calls related to the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and
                    Fifteenth Amendments and to measures concerning Negroes from 1838 through February, 1864.
            The central question Glenn M. Linden attempts to address is the extent to which the votes of
                    individual senators and congressmen on roll calls relating to the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and
                    Fifteenth Amendments were in support of Negro rights and consistent with their previous roll call
                    voting on measures pertaining to Negroes. The book measures "support" by the
                    percentage of times an individual voted "pro-Negro equality" (p. 13) during his
                    terms of service and "consistency" by whether the percentage on roll calls prior
                    to 1864 differed substantially from the percentage on amendment roll calls from 1864 through 1869.
                    The book does not consider roll calls on other measures relating to Negro rights from 1864 through
                    1869 because "they were not useful in determining whether Congressmen who voted for or
                    against the amendments were acting consistently with their past records" (p. 8).
            One major shortcoming of this approach to "support" and
                    "consistency" is that it fails to consider the fact that there were substantial
                    shifts in voting patterns of certain individuals during the two periods in question. Nor does it
                    take adequate account of how much the issues themselves, public opinion, and the context of events
                    shifted over time. A Republican who maintained the same position from 1857 through 1867 was quite
                    likely to have appeared as "declining" in his support for pro-Negro measures in
                    the relative terms of voting on amendment-related roll calls. Furthermore, the method used to
                    describe such changes—listing the two percentages side by side—is much less
                    effective than a simple scatterplot would have been in showing change and consistency. The
                    conclusion that most members of Congress "did not significantly change their voting
                    behavior concerning blacks in the years from 1838 to 1869" (pp. 45–46) is at
                    best misleading.
            
               
                        Linden
                    's attempt to relate support and consistency on Negro-related legislation to
                    individual background factors such as state represented, state of birth, age, and education is weak
                    and offers little new information. It is hardly surprising to learn that pro-Negro members of
                    Congress were primarily Republicans from the North and East who had a somewhat higher median
                    education than their Democratic opponents from border and western states.
            
            This book contains many numbers, but it does not go very far beyond the raw roll call votes and
                    percentages. Such data can yield much richer information but only after a good deal more analysis
                    and summarization. The author's conclusion that passage of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and
                    Fifteenth Amendments displayed a larger measure of principle than politics is doubtless correct, but
                    the book does not furnish adequate evidence for that conclusion nor indicate why that might have
                    been the case.
            
                    University of 
                     California,
                                Berkeley
                  
               
                
            John L. McCarthy
         
         
            
               Knights of the Golden Rule: The Intellectual as Christian Social Reformer in the
                        1890s. By Peter J. Frederick. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1976. Pp. xvi, 323. Notes, selected bibliography, index. $18.75.)
            The ten Christian social reformers who are the protagonists of this study wore that label very
                    loosely, with wide variations of consistency and staying power. Christian Socialists, as distinct
                    from the more secular breed, shared an earnest ethical persuasion informed by the vision of a
                    Kingdom of God on earth. The kingdom was to be achieved not through class conflict or state coercion
                    but rather by compassionate altruism, or what one of them called "social love."
                    The disparity between the goal and the tactics chosen to approach it made its advocates highly
                    vulnerable to the charge of inflated idealism and impracticality. In Peter J. Frederick's
                    friendly but demanding assessment, their collective failure to match dreams with action is what
                    mainly binds them to- gether as a group.
            In succeeding chapters, William Dean Howells and Henry Demarest Lloyd are seen as incurably eclectic
                    and optimistic in their reformism; W. D. P. Bliss and B. O. Flower are dismissed as enthusiastic but
                    feckless proponents of reformist unity; Vida Scudder is treated kindly for her efforts to mix
                    college teaching with social service; clergymen Walter Rauschenbusch and George Herron are
                    contrasted in their diverging attitudes toward the efficacy of institutional change; Edwin Markham
                    is compared unfavorably with fellow poet Ernest Crosby, whose principled self-doubt arouses in
                    Frederick a shock of recognition; and finally the 
                        Toledo
                     business-man-turned-politician "Golden Rule" Jones is portrayed as a
                    model of the practical reformer whose behavior set a standard 
                    against which the quixotic failures of the others can be measured.
            At first glance, Jones' inclusion in the group seems somewhat arbitrary—a device
                    by which to dramatize the lesson that middle class intellectual reform is inherently futile unless
                    "words" are justified by "deeds" and by saving contact with the
                    working classes. Jones passes the author's deed-test with flying colors, and in this
                    crucial difference lies his historical significance. Yet Jones shared with his fellow knights of the
                    golden rule an almost born-again faith in the utility of Christian benevolence and also a sense of
                    discipleship to their European mentors, Mazzini, Ruskin, and Tolstoy. The broad inspirational impact
                    of this trio on American Christian social reformers at the turn of the century is one of the
                    important findings of Frederick's study.
            Frederick writes with explicity presentist preoccupations. His book is "about the present
                    and about me," he warns. "Otherwise, there would have been no reason to write
                    it" (p. xv). Further he acknowledges what he calls "a quasi-New Left
                    perspective" (p. 271). This angle of vision presumably accounts for his relentless effort
                    to impose on his subjects a judgmental evaluation borrowed from the chastening radical experience of
                    the 1960s. Repeatedly he invokes the concepts of middle class guilt, self-isolation, elitism,
                    over-optimism, and inability to reconcile ideals and practice. These define the crucial failings of
                    his knights. His new left assumption, that progressive reform was significant primarily for its
                    stabilization of the political economy which the Kingdom of God promised to transform, serves to
                    validate the theme of failure.
            Thorough in his research, gifted in his prose, and candid about his preferences, Frederick has
                    produced an important monograph which is also a revealing historiographical document.
            
                    Oberlin College, Oberlin, 
                            Ohio
                        
               
                
            Geoffrey Blodgett
         
         
            
               Affairs of State: Public Life in Late Nineteenth Century America. By Morton
                    Keller. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: The Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1977. Pp. ix, 631. Notes, tables, index. $17.50.)
            In recent years historians, led especially by the efforts of Samuel P. Hays, Robert Wiebe, and Alfred
                    D. Chandler, Jr., have been reexamining the nature of late nineteenth and early  twentieth century American history. Morton Keller's study is
                    an extremely valuable addition to this growing body of literature. The synthesizing works of other
                    historians have dealt primarily with economic and social changes, while slighting somewhat the
                    interaction between these changes and politics. Keller investigates precisely this overlooked
                    area— the public polity, in which he includes party politics, foreign policy, law, and
                    government involvement in the economy.
            Keller divides his study into two major part. The first covers the years 1865 through 1880. In this
                    period he finds "the wartime legacy of active, expanded government" to have
                    affected all aspects of the public polity "in Congress and the courts, in the victorious
                    North as well as the defeated South, in a broad range of social and economic policies" (p.
                    35). Yet, even as the Civil War boosted the power of the federal government and led to an increase
                    in its involvement in social and economic affairs, countervailing forces—localism,
                    laissez- faire ideas, and racism—were at work against the nationalizing and centralizing
                    forces. The second section deals with the relationship between politics and industrialization during
                    the 1880s and 1890s. Keller views economic and social changes as causing major alterations in the
                    public polity, but, again, he notes that there was widespread resistence to these changes.
            
               Affairs of State is an important book for anyone interested in the evolution of
                    American politics. Well written and organized, Keller's study brings together in a
                    readable, comprehensive volume information from a wealth of secondary sources. The extensive
                    footnotes provide guides for further reading. The most significant contribution of the work in this
                    reviewer's opinion is Keller's amply documented assertion that tension between the
                    old and the new underlay American politics in the four decades following the Civil War. Particularly
                    worth noting is his conclusion that localism, opposition to government involvement in the economy,
                    individualism, and the continuance of preindustrial values modified and slowed the nationalizing
                    tendencies present in American life. Keller's findings suggest that the American experience
                    was more complex than the works of other historians have indicated.
            For all its value, this study has a few shortcomings. Keller occassionally overstates his case.
                    Business and economic historians may question his statement that "the Civil War remains the
                    great watershed in the history of the American nation," with an "agrarian,
                    decentralized" nation on one side  of the divide and a
                    "nation of cities, factories, immigrants" on the other (p. 1). Most will probably
                    see more continuity in nineteenth century American economic development than does Keller. By the
                    same token, some historians may well question just how "distinctive" or
                    "new" it was for Americans "to call on government to assist economic
                    development" after the Civil War (p. 162). In fact, governmental bodies greatly aided
                    economic growth in earlier times, particularly in the realm of internal improvements. Despite his
                    generally encyclopedic range of knowledge, Keller sometimes neglects works which might have added to
                    his discussion of certain topics. For instance, his treatment of the silver issue might benefit from
                    some consideration of the studies by Walter Nugent and Allen Weinstein.
            Despite its few problems, Affairs of State is a superb book, a
                    "must" for those interested in nineteenth century American history.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
               
                
            Mansel G. Blackford
         
         
            
               Toward a Warless World: The Travail of the American Peace Movement,
                        1887–1914. By David S. Patterson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1976. Pp. xi, 339. Notes, index. $15.00.)
            Sparked by his sympathy for the 
                        Vietnam
                     peace movement, David S. Patterson investigated activities of American peace groups
                    from 1887 to 1914. The result is a critical history of peace leaders and their failures, which is
                    heavily documented and makes use of quantitative data on key peace leaders. Using a chronological
                    approach, except for two chapters, Patterson examines the assumptions and programs of the leaders.
                    The peace movement reached its highest point on the eve of World War I, but peace leaders failed to
                    realize that militarism and nationalism were growing forces and not a vestige of the
                    world's uncivilized past. In short, the peace movement grew and prospered, but relatively
                    it lost much ground in the race against war.
            In an effort to bring meaning to an "extremely diverse, amorphous movement" (p.
                    ix), Patterson studies thirty-six leaders, a group chosen by position and consistent participation
                    at peace and arbitration conferences. He assigns the leaders to categories of pacifist, generalist,
                    world federationist (federalist), and legalist, but warns that some leaders moved from one category
                    to another and that others did not fit a  category. He concludes
                    that peace leaders had similar backgrounds: most were overwhelmingly urban, professional,
                    Anglo-Saxon and Protestant, and born east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and north of the Mason-Dixon line. Common values of elitism and unquestioning belief in
                    the reality of moral values as the mainspring of human behavior added to the bonds between peace
                    leaders. Still, the most distinctive characteristic of the peace movement in the pre-World War I era
                    was its heterogeneity (p. 181). Organizations had numerous approaches to peace, yet a major
                    characteristic of the movement was the "relative absence of overt controversy" (p.
                    195). Unity in the movement developed out of similar backgrounds and values and agreement on four
                    principles: periodic international congresses for discussions; the 
                        United States
                     should be the leader in the world peace movement since it was a satiated, secure power;
                    the importance of law; and the need for a court of arbitral justice.
            Leaders with Indiana connections included David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     and May Wright Sewall, although the latter does not receive enough credit from
                    Patterson. The Peace Association of Friends, a 
                        Quaker
                     peace group with headquarters at 
                  Richmond, Indiana
               , published Messenger of Peace, the most successful pacifist journal in the 1870s and 1880s, but its
                    leaders, William G. Hubbard and Daniel Hill, do not fit Patterson's mold. Another Hoosier
                    peace leader, Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     Trueblood, was born in 
                        Salem
                     and educated at Earlham College. Patterson agrees with the appraisal of Edwin Mead that
                    Trueblood was the "only professional peace worker in the 
                        United States
                    , the only man who made service of the peace cause his vocation" (p. 28).
            Several criticisms are in order. Although Patterson writes well, several passages contain confusing
                    conceptual terms (for example, p. 158). And his criticisms of peace workers lead to contradictions
                    on more than one occasion. When he finds that peace leaders waffled on their antiwar statements, he
                    criticizes them for being too cautious and not totally committed to the ideals of the movement. At
                    the same time, he criticizes them for being too narrow and elitist and not being aware of
                    "practical peace" (p. 129) and political realities even though appeals to the
                    masses had little impact on policy.
            Patterson has written a thorough, solid work based on extensive research, and he does an admirable
                    job of analyzing the diversities in the peace movement and of clarifying many  of the changing principles and positions of peace workers during the
                    pre-World War I era. Criticism of this work has to be limited to the few tedious conceptual passages
                    and to the publisher's placement of over nine hundred notes at the end of the book. Also, a
                    list of forty-two abbreviations that vie with each other for similarity and the lack of a
                    bibliography should be noted.
            
                    Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            F. Gerald Handfield, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Blacks in America, 1492–1977: A Chronology & Fact Book.
                    Compiled and edited by Irving J. Sloan. Fourth revised edition. (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana
                    Publications, Inc., 1977. Pp. x, 169. Appendixes, bibliography, notes, tables, name index.
                    $6.50.)
            
               The Russians in America, 1727–1975: A Chronology & Fact Book.
                    Compiled and edited by Vladimir Wertsman. (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana Publications, Inc., 1977. Pp.
                    140. Illustration, notes, biblography, appendixes, name index. $6.50.)
            
               The Chicanos in America, 1540–1974: A Chronology & Fact Book.
                    Compiled and edited by Richard A. Garcia. (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana Publications, Inc., 1977. Pp.
                    viii, 231. Notes, tables, bibliography, name index. $6.50.)
            
               The American Indian, 1492–1976: A Chronology & Fact Book.
                    Compiled and edited by Henry C. Dennis. Second edition. (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana Publications,
                    Inc., 1977. Pp. xiii, 177. Appendixes, tables, notes, bibliography, name index. $6.50.)
            These four books are part of Oceana's Ethnic Chronology Series, intended primarily for
                    secondary schools and community colleges. Although the series appears uniform, with standardized
                    titles and bright scarlet bindings, it should not be assumed that the books are identical in format
                    or quality. The content varies considerably.
            Two of the four are updates of previous editions. The "revision" of The Blacks in America simply updates the chronology. Exact dates are usually given, such
                    an important feature in a chronology that it is hard to understand why the example is so often not
                    followed in the rest of the  series. A grossly inadequate
                    bibliography, an outline of Afro-American history, a heterogeneous list of organizations, a very
                    good statistical section, and several other collections of information are included.
            
               The American Indian, 1492–1976 has 118 pages of chronology. The
                    appendixes include Indian publications, organizations, lists of prominent Indians past and
                    contemporary, and a short bibliography almost entirely limited to historical studies. The lists have
                    been considerably expanded from the 1971 edition, though without much updating of previous entries.
            Information about prominent Russian-Americans in many fields is woven into the thirty-one page
                    chronology of The Russians in America, 1727-1975. The documents section, which
                    makes up most of the book, contains largely extracts from a variety of articles. A short
                    bibliography is followed by lists of organizations, periodicals, and schools offering courses in
                    Russian studies. The Russian alphabet and a few Russian proverbs are also thrown in.
            
               The Chicanos in America, 1540–1974, which is in painful need of proof
                    reading, has only twenty-one pages of chronology. Only the year is usually given, and many of the
                    entries are so amorphous (or so cryptic) that even to specify a year is cutting it a bit fine. But
                    exact dates could be given far more often than they are. There is no outline history, no list of
                    organizations or of individuals. The documents section makes up the rest of the book, except for the
                    bibliography. It includes seven articles, most taken from 
                        United States
                     government publications, and a few assorted statements. The bibliography, however, is
                    relatively good.
            The uneven quality of these volumes makes it difficult to select from the series with any confidence.
                    The Chicano volume is a notable disappointment. The volumes on blacks and Indians are probably
                    useful although the updating is skimpy. The Russian volume is well done but by its nature of more
                    limited usefulness. The series is a good idea which could have been well executed with a little more
                    editorial attention.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Nancy C. Cridland
         
         
            
               Three Generations in Twentieth Century America: Family, Community, and Nation.
                    By John G. Clark, David M. Katzman, Richard D. McKinzie, and Theodore A. Wilson.  (Homewood, Ill.: The Dorsey Press, 1977. Pp. xx, 529. Maps,
                    illustrations, tables, bibliography, index. $13.95.)
            The authors of this unusual textbook attempt to show how "urbanization, industrialization,
                    expansion, bureaucratization, and their effects upon family structure, occupations, social
                    stratification, and demographic patterns… [affected] the lives of three previous
                    generations of American families existing in various socioeconomic-geographic situations"
                    (p. ix). To do this they "sought out a number of families and reconstructed their lives
                    from 1900 to 1975." The families chosen, although "not statistically
                    typical… comprised a rough cross-section of the population in 1900 and…
                    continue to reflect this relative balance while also evoking many of the changes that have occurred
                    since 1900" (pp. ix-x).
            This textbook should be especially interesting to Hoosiers because it includes two 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     families and provides some valuable insights into southwestern Indiana history. It also
                    illustrates the new social history approach— i.e., history from the "bottom
                    up." The authors declare that they will describe American history which was
                    "directly relevant to the lives of ‘our’ families," analyze
                    "the quality of life for these families," and place "their lifestyles in
                    the context of social and cultural trends" (pp. x–xi).
            Problems of methodology and conception, however, prevent the attainment of these goals. For example,
                    the criteria for selection and analysis of families are vague. Of the thirteen families cited, some
                    (the Japanese-American Kuriharas) are treated cursorily; others are in effect dropped after World
                    War II (the Irish-American O'Reillys); and still others (the Hispanic-American Navas and
                    Martinezes) appear only after World War II. The names of all the families cited, moreover, are
                    fictitious. This practice makes analysis of the evidence impossible. There are also no footnotes.
            In addition to the use of fictitious names, factual errors tend to cast doubt upon the reliability of
                    the evidence. For example, the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Täglicher Demokrat was forced to close in April, 1918, not May, 1917;
                    its demise was in part the work of a German-American mayor (p. 128). 
                        Evansville
                    's congressman after World War II was Winfield, not William, Denton (p. 435).
                    The impact of Bendix-Westinghouse upon 
                        Evansville
                    's recovery in the 1960s was negligible (p. 486). Jimmy Carter does not have a
                    Ph.D. (p. 429), and local bicentennial  committees did not have
                    the luxury of being forced to look for ways to spend federal funds (p. 430).
            More serious are the conceptual limitations revealed by the assertion that these families were
                    selected "principally to illustrate and explain various themes of our study" and
                    that "countless other families would reveal as much…" (p. x). Instead
                    of including more "typical" families—e.g., southern Italians and potato
                    famine refugees from 
                        Ireland
                    —the authors chose descendants of a skilled worker from northern 
                        Italy
                     and of an Irish immigrant of 1892. Why a German Catholic family which settled in
                    southwest Indiana was not selected is also questionable. The assumptions, or themes, moreover, are
                    dubious. For instance, is there something pernicious about the view that private property and home
                    ownership promote good citizenship (p. 73) ? Should Americans find the ideal of legal equality and
                    the existence of social inequality irreconcilable (pp. 103, 503) ? Had Americans learned by 1975
                    that "they were tied to one another by unbreakable bonds" (p. 503) ?
            The most obvious theme is that only one family "ever enjoyed real power. Though most had
                    entered the middle class by the 1950's, none had achieved complete economic security. They
                    were aware that they had little access to the centers of power…. But they accepted
                    passively the right and superior wisdom of a small, self-perpetuating elite…"
                    (pp. 502–503). More careful selection of families and more attention to the structure of
                    elites would have weakened this assertion considerably. For example, 
                        Evansville
                    's poor of 1900, the German Catholics, wielded substantial power by 1975. Both
                    candidates for mayor in 1971 and 1975, moreover, were Roman Catholic. Such a situation would have
                    been unthinkable in 1900. It is also doubtful that "complete economic security"
                    existed anywhere in the America of 1975.
            The new social history is essential, and family history is a useful teaching tool. The scholarship of
                    this textbook, however, leaves much to be desired. Whether it will interest students in history
                    remains to be seen.
            
                    Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
               
                
            Barrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               Two Centuries of American Agriculture. Edited by Vivian Wiser. (
                        Washington
                    : The Agricultural History Society, 1976. Pp. vi, 315. Notes, tables, index.
                    $8.00.)
            
               Two Centuries of American Agriculture is the sixth in a series of anthologies
                    published by the Agricultural History  Society, all of which
                    appeared originally as journal numbers of Agricultural History and all except one
                    of which grew out of symposia sponsored by the society. Unlike earlier volumes, which are organized
                    around regional and period topics in 
                        United States
                     agricultural history, the 1976 contribution focuses, predictably, on a bicentennial
                    theme. The book includes an introduction, nineteen articles, and several commentaries delivered by
                    critics at the symposium.
            On the whole the articles fall short of the quality of those in the earlier volumes. This is due
                    largely to the symposium's rather cumbersome bicentennial format. Most of the articles
                    attempt a two hundred year overview of such subjects as Indians, immigrants, and women in
                    agriculture; research and education; science and technology; agricultural credit and trade; and
                    rural politics. With few exceptions this ambitious but difficult undertaking results in poorly
                    supported generalizations or dreary recitations of well known facts. In either case the effort at
                    synthesis fails. The four pieces on women labor under an added burden. Although one might applaud
                    the symposium's symbolic support for feminism, these articles succeed only in demonstrating
                    the inadequacy of the women in agriculture theme as an organizational framework for scholarly
                    inquiry. In an apparent effort to stretch the bicentennial structure to include a public policy
                    dimension, two authors peer into the future and predict several far reaching changes in the
                    agricultural sector, but they provide little more than readers might reasonably be expected to
                    intuit on their own.
            Several of the articles rise above the rest. Theodore Saloutos' orderly review of immigrant
                    contributions to 
                        United States
                     agriculture and Gilbert C. Fite's thoughtful essay on the pioneer farmer offer
                    fresh insights. Allan G. Bogue, in one of the volume's two successful attempts at
                    synthesis, assembles a mass of information and weaves it into a perceptive account of the history of
                    land credit in the northern states. In the other successful attempt at synthesis, Paul W. Gates
                    calls upon his vast knowledge and understanding of land policy to trace the acquisition and
                    disposition of the public domain over the two hundred years since the Revolution. The
                    volume's most provocative article, William N. Parker's comparative analysis of the
                    European industrial revolution and American agricultural development, proposes a three stage model
                    of technological change—artisan industry with  royal
                    or commercial stimulation, a burst of mechanical inventions, and the development of fundamental
                    science—to explain productivity growth. In addition to the useful information and
                    insights contained in these articles, Joseph D. Reid's commentary on the Bogue and Parker
                    pieces makes the interesting observation that what the field of agricultural history now needs is an
                    overarching theoretical framework. Reid offers the enticing suggestion that the American experience
                    may best be seen as varieties of profit maximizing behavior.
            In sum, despite the value of several of the articles, the results of the bicentennial symposium are
                    disappointing. Happily for those interested in the field, the Agricultural History Society has
                    returned to a regional/period format for subsequent symposia.
            
                    Vanderbilt University, 
                            Nashville
                        
               
                
            Donald L. Winters
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               The Pokagons. By Cecilia Bain Buechner. (Berrien Springs, Mich.: Hardscrabble
                    Books, 1976. Pp. 63. Notes, illustrations, appendixes. $5.00.) This is an account of
                    Leopold and Simon Pokagon, chiefs of the Wabash Valley Potawatomi. The work was
                    originally published in 1933 as volume ten, number five of the Indiana Historical Society
                    Publications and is reprinted now with permission of the Society. The author, who relied on
                    published sources and on interviews with informants, including the granddaughter of Chief Simon
                    Pokagon, produced a very sympathetic story of two Indians attempting to respond peaceably to white
                    advance and settlement in the nineteenth century.
            
               The 
                            Columbia
                         Conserve Company: An Experiment in Workers' Management and Ownership.
                    By William P. Hap- good. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Porcupine Press, 1975. Pp. 187. Notes and appendix. $12.50.) One of the
                    most interesting experiments in twentieth century Indiana occurred in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1920s and 1930s where more than one hundred workers played a major role as
                    managers and part owners of the 
                        Columbia
                     Conserve Company. This effort at social reform and industrial democracy was led by
                    William P. Hapgood. In response to nationwide interest in 
                        Columbia
                     Conserve, Hap- good in 1931 wrote an account of the company's history and
                    goals, showing poignantly the hopes and the trials of social and economic reformers in the interwar
                    years. Revised in 1934, Hapgood's account is now reprinted, with a new introduction by
                    Louis Filler. Readers wishing a fuller background than Filler's brief introduction might
                    consult Kim McQuaid, "Industry and the Co-operative Commonwealth: William P. Hapgood and
                    the 
                        Columbia
                     Conserve Company, 1917–1943," Labor History, 17
                    (Fall, 1976), 510–29.
            
               The Calumet Region: Indiana's Last Frontier. By Powell A. Moore, with an
                    afterword by Lance Trusty. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1977. Pp. xiii, 685. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. (Clothbound, $8.00; paper- bound, $5.50.) This reprint
                    edition, following so soon after the 1970 reprinting, indicates the enduring value of Powell 
                  
                     ∗ Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written
                            by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
                     A. Moore's account of the Calumet Region, originally
                    published in 1959. Although several articles and dissertations on the Region have appeared since
                    1959, Moore's book remains the standard printed reference to the diversity and significance
                    of Indiana's northwestern corner. Moore ended his account in 1933. For this reprint
                    edition, Lance Trusty has summarized major developments since that date. Trusty's
                    twenty-eight page afterword is a useful overview that should stimulate further research in the many
                    significant topics he surveys.
            
               The Booker T. Washington Papers. Volume 5,1899–1900.
                    Edited by Louis R. Harlan and Raymond W. Smock; assistant editor, Barbara S. Kraft. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1976. Pp. xxviii, 747. Notes, bibliography, index. $17.50.) This is a
                    welcomed addition to the multi-volumed publication of the Booker T. Washington
                    Papers. Scholars of the period and of this complicated individual will be aided immensely by
                    the documents provided in this volume. But non-specialists stand to profit from it, too. These
                    papers, showing 
                        Washington
                    's activities at the peak of his power and influence, reflect an amazingly wide
                    range of friends and acquaintances and describe the Tuskegan's involvement in numerous
                    activities of major importance to the American people at the turn of the century. The
                    editors' notes describing individuals with whom 
                        Washington
                     corresponded relieve readers of the task of evaluating the relative standing of people
                    mentioned. But despite the brilliance of the editing of his papers, Booker T. Washington remains an
                    enigma. Perhaps that is his legacy to America. William H. Harris, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society Graduate Fellowships in History
            The Indiana Historical Society intends to offer two $2,000 graduate fellowships for the
                    1978–1979 academic year to doctoral candidates whose dissertations are in the field of
                    Indiana history or Indiana and the Midwest.
            Applicants must have completed all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree
                    except the research and writing of the dissertation. Applicants must provide a dissertation
                    prospectus, graduate transcript, and three letters of recommendation, including one from the
                    chairman of the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director.
                    Deadline for receipt of applications is March 15, 1978.
            For further information and application forms write Gayle Thornbrough, Executive Secretary, Indiana
                    Historical Society, 315 West 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46202.
         
         
            Indiana History Project
            The Indiana State Library has begun a program to tape-record historical accounts of Indiana for use
                    by the blind and physically handicapped. The Indiana Historical Society is sponsoring the project as
                    a memorial to the late Eli Lilly. Among materials already taped are several books published by the
                    Society and recent issues of the Indiana Magazine of History. Volunteers are
                    needed to tape on their own equipment at home or in the Indiana State Library. Monitors are also
                    needed to work in the Library. For additional information on producing the tapes and on their use,
                    write F. Mote, Coordinator, Indiana History Project, Indiana State Library, 140 North Senate,
                            
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
                46204.
         
         
            Early National Historical Society
            Historians of the early national period of American history (approximately 1789–1830s) are
                    organizing a group to encourage interest in that period. Persons desiring further information should
                    contact James H. Broussard, Room 413, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
                46204.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
