
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 1, Issue 2, pages 59-110. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:1+issue:2+year:1905&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                The Wabash and Its Valley
                Part I—The Earlier History
                ONE who delves among old books and documents that bear upon early Indiana history is struck by the
                    fact that a great and, in some respects, a peculiar interest attaches to the Wabash River and the region that it waters. Next
                    to the Mississippi and Ohio it, more than any other Western stream, seems
                    to have commanded the attention of old-time travelers, its relation to the St. Lawrence water system
                    giving it an importance hardly appreciated to-day by those who are not students of history and of
                    former conditions.
                A glance at the map will show the magnitude of the Wabash, as compared with other 
                        Indiana
                     rivers. Traversing the State in a great are from the northeast part to the southwest
                    extremity, it covers, counting its bends, more than five hundred miles. When we reflect that its
                    valley is a tract of that extent, in some places many miles wide, and originally of unsurpassed
                    fertility, we can realize its ultimate agricultural importance; but long before that day the river
                    itself had a supreme value. Along its course were the very beginners of Indiana history, and for
                    reasons that are intimately inwoven with the larger history of the country.
                From the lofty tower of the court house in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     one has a fine bird's-eye view not only of the third largest city in 
                        Indiana
                    , but of a much wider sweep of territory which circles about with a visible radius of
                    perhaps ten miles. Down in the town, from the midst of trees and buildings, occasional glimpses may
                    be had of the three rivers—the St.
                    Mary's, the St. Joseph
                    and the Maumee—that find their union here, on
                    the summit of the great water-shed. To north and south and east the eye may trace their three
                    valleys. Westward a level, almost  treeless, depression like the
                    ancient bed of yet another river, stretches to the blue distance.
                To the instructed observer this topography tells a most interesting story. Eastward of him gently
                    dips the broad Erie basin, sending its waters to the sea by Lake Erie, Niagara and the St. Lawrence. On the other hand, a few miles
                    across the prairie-like expanse spoken of, and almost within sight, lies a tributary of the
                    beautiful Wabash, and beyond it the vast
                    slope of the Mississippi Valley, down which the lordly rivers merge in a
                    general highway to the far-off Gulf of
                    Mexico.
                The near approach to each other here of these two great water systems which thread the land through
                    various latitudes for perhaps three thousand miles, binding together the remote parts of the
                    continent, must be appreciated to understand the peculiar interest that attaches to the spot. By
                    referring to a map of this region it may be seen that the St. Mary's and St. Joseph Rivers, which send their waters to Lake
                        Erie, do not flow from the west, but toward the west till they meet, then, by an
                    unusual dip of the surface, they run back eastward to the Maumee, down a trough that lies between the two valleys of the first-named streams.
                    The branches of the 
                        Wabash
                     flow from the same direction as do the branches of the Maumee, but continue westward. Moreover, the Maumee and its two oblique tributaries form a sort of arrow head, which,
                    intruding among the 
                        Wabash
                     tributaries, thus make the two systems interlock and approach at their nearest points
                    to within a few miles of each other. The important feature of it is that this interlocking is not of
                    insignificant headwaters, as usually happens, but the nearest point of approach is where the streams
                    on both sides are navigable. Back of all this lies a fascinating geologic story—the story of a vast
                    retreating glacier, shaped not unlike the prow of a mighty ship, that, as it halted and retreated
                    and anon halted, built up successive lines of morainic breastworks that determined the courses of
                    the rivers and drew together the two systems as above described.∗
                
                
                    
                        ∗ For fullest exposition of this theory see Sixteenth Geological Report of
                        Ind.; Charles R. Dryer's chapter on 
                            Allen County
                        .
                
                
                Under the old methods of transportation, when the navigable rivers were of paramount importance, the
                    immense advantages of this spot where the seaboard met the Mississippi Valley
                    were fully recognized by various masters of the place. Its military value alone was such that
                    through three successive periods the French, the English and the Americans commanded with military
                    posts this portage where, by a carry of some nine miles, troops might have easy ingress to the
                    territory which otherwise was almost inaccessible. Anthony Wayne, indeed, regarded it as "the key to
                    the Northwest." Subsequently it came to have a commercial value which made the early growth of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and before the white man's advent his aboriginal predecessors had pitched their lodges
                    there for similar reasons, the city just named being antedated by a Miami village known as Kekionga.
                    A squaw, the mother of the Chief Richardville, who had preceded him as the ruler of her tribe, is
                    said to have amassed a fortune from tolls exacted from the traders who used the portage; Little
                    Turtle, the great war chief, was not less thrifty, and when the whites succeeded to the holding a
                    flourishing business was carried on with carriers and pack-horses. At the treaty of Greenville, in
                    1795, after the subjugation of the northwestern tribes by Anthony Wayne, Little Turtle pleaded for a
                    continued interest in the portage. This region, he contended, had always belonged to the Miamis, and
                    in one of his speeches he speaks of it as "the glorious gate ∗ ∗ ∗ through which all the good words
                    of our chiefs had to pass from the North to the South, and from the East to the West. ∗ ∗ ∗ This
                    carrying place," he said again, "has heretofore proved in a great degree, the subsistence of your
                    younger brothers. That place has brought to us, in the course of one day, the amount of one hundred
                        dollars."∗ The explanation of this is that the Twightwees, or Miamis proper,
                    the dominant tribe of the great Miami confederacy, held many councils here with visiting
                    tribes—hence "the glorious gate ∗ ∗ ∗ through which all the good wors of our chiefs had to pass,"
                    while for the use of 
                        
                            ∗Dillon, pp. 368, 369.
                    
                     the portage by traders the holders exacted tribute or toll, thus
                    levying what might be called the first tariff on imports. General Wayne, in answering this part of
                    Little Turtle's plea, used an argument not altogether unknown at the present day. "Let us inquire,"
                    he said, "who, in fact, paid the heavy contribution. It is true the traders bore it in the first
                    instance; but they laid it on the goods, and the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                     really and finally paid it."∗
                
                Another interesting fact in connection with this portage was the utilizing of beaver dams on
                        Little River. When the water was low these were broken away and the boats
                    of the voyagers carried down with the increased floods. The witless animals would industriously
                    repair the breaches thus made, quite unconscious of the part they were playing in man's traffic†
                With the coming of the explorer and the fur trader the 
                        Wabash
                     begins a new phase of history. Just when the first white man's canoe traversed its
                    winding miles is a matter of speculation. Some historians have put it as early as 1680 and some as
                    late as 1735 and even 1750. Some of the earlier chart-makers confused it with the 
                        Ohio
                    , and on one French map, dated 1720, we find a stream rising in a good-sized lake near
                    the east end of Lake Erie, flowing thence
                    through what is now northern 
                        Ohio
                    , and finally trending southwest to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . This is called "OUABACHE AUTREMT APPELLEE OHIO OU BELLE RIVIERE."
                    By 1742 the two rivers are differentiated, but flow parallel with each other, not very far apart,
                    and by 1784 the 
                        Wabash
                     is laid down with considerable accuracy. The stream was at one time christened St.
                    Jerome and is so called on a few of the maps, but the name did not stick, and it was generally
                    designated as the "Ouabache." This was the French spelling of an Indian word from an Algonquin stem,
                    wabi or wapi, which meant white.‡ In time it became anglicized into 
                        Wabash
                    , which is not far removed 
                        
                            ∗Dillon, p. 371.
                        †Dunn's Indiana, p. 114.
                        ‡Dunn, p. 14.
                    
                     from the Indian "Wabba-shikka," that is attached to it in
                    Hough's map, giving the Indian names of rivers.∗
                
                Hard after the first explorers came the French fur traders. The most lucrative and most immediate
                    returns promised by the wilderness of the new world were in the skins of its wild animals, and
                    capitalists were swift to draw upon this source of wealth. Large companies were formed and these
                    established their agents along with the military posts which 
                        France
                     planted across her vast new territory from the lakes to the gulf. Three of these
                    settlements, military and commercial, were located on the 
                        Wabash
                    —one at the Miami village of Kekionga, where 
                        Fort Wayne
                     now stands; one called Ouiatenon, among the Wea Indians, below the present site of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and one among the Piankeshaws, eventually known as 
                        Vincennes
                    . To these posts the Indians from far and near brought their peltries, exchanging them
                    for commodities dear to the savage heart, and from here they were sent to the great fur houses in
                    upper Canada. Communication between these remote points was effected by the famous COUREURS DES BOIS, the carriers of the woods, who were the forerunners of the steamboat and
                    the freight train. The reign of these wild, lawless and care-free rangers adds a picturesque gleam
                    to the history of the beautiful 
                        Wabash
                    . To quote the words of J. P. Dunn: "They were the most romantic and poetic characters
                    ever known in American frontier life. Their every movement attracts the rosiest coloring of
                    imagination. We see them gliding along the streams in their long canoes. ∗ ∗ ∗ We catch afar off the
                    thrilling cadence of their choruses, floating over prairie and marsh, echoing from forest and hill,
                    startling the buffalo from his haunt in the reeds; telling the drowsy denizens of the posts of the
                    approach of revelry, and whispering to the Indian village of gaudy fabrics, of trinkets and of
                    firewater. ∗ ∗ ∗ Another night they have reached the little post and we are overwhelmed by the
                    confusion of chattering, laughing, singing and bargaining."†
                
                    
                        ∗
                        
                            Indiana
                         Geological Report, 1882.
                    † Dunn, p. 91.
                
                
                With all this gaiety, however, the lot of the VOYAGEUR was by no means an easy
                    one. His food was such as few civilized men could live on, a day's ration being simply a quart of
                    hulled corn and a pint of bear's grease, while a ceaseless plying of the paddle from dawn till dusk
                    could not have been less laborious than the toil of the Roman galley slave, whose task has become a
                    synonym for hard work.
                The favorite craft of these carriers was the pirouge, a large canoe made from the hollowed trunks of
                    trees, propelled with paddles by four men. Coming they bore coarse blue and red cloths, fine
                    scarlet, guns, powder, balls, knives, hatchets, traps, kettles, ribbons, beads, vermilion, tobacco,
                    spirituous liquors, etc.∗ Returning, they carried back, as a load, some forty
                    packs of skins weighing about one hundred pounds each, and that the exchange of the cargoes proved
                    profitable to the traders we can readily believe when told that the Indians were charged at the rate
                    of four dollars a hundred for bullets.
                Of the three 
                        Wabash
                     settlements named, two, Ouiatenon and the one at Kekionga, were never more than mere
                    posts, consisting of traders and their families, and the little garrison maintained by the French
                    government. An old document published by the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society, which has been called "The First Census of Indiana," gives the
                    names of the heads of families at these points, there being nine at Fort Miami (
                        Fort Wayne
                    >), and twelve at Ouiatenon. These, with sixty-six names at 
                        Vincennes
                    , represented the white population of our territory in 1769. Colonel Croghan, an officer
                    in the British service, who was captured by the Kickapoo Indians and carried up the 
                        Wabash
                     in 1765, describes Kekionga as forty or fifty Indian cabins and nine or ten French
                    houses occupied by a runaway colony from 
                        Detroit
                    .
                Of Fort Ouiatenon, which, in all probability, was the first settlement in 
                        Indiana
                    , information is so meager that the historians have waged a spirited controversy as to
                    its site. A few years ago a skeleton in the remnants of a French uniform, along with some silver
                    crucifixes, utensils and various fragments 
                        
                            ∗ Dillon, p. 20.
                    
                     of military equipments were dug up on the north bank of the
                    river near the mouth of Wea creek, which would seem to determine the spot. During the French
                    occupancy this post, situated in the very heart of the fur country, did a thirving business, the
                    annual trade being estimated at $8,000, but after the English conquest it was gradually abandoned.
                The date of the founding of 
                        Vincennes
                     is also involved in obscurity, and there has been not a little ingenious but barren
                    speculation upon the subject. Dillon suggests 1702, Dunn 1727 and Bancroft about 1716. The names
                    that attached to it in the earlier days were various. It is first mentioned as the "Post du
                    Ouabache," which became contracted into au poste, and this in turn, when the American settlers came,
                    was corrupted into Opost. It has also been referred to as "the post of Pianguichats" and "L.
                    (little) Wiaut." Sometimes it took its name from St. Ange, the first commandant, and from this was
                    anglicised into Fort St. Anne, or Fort Anne. It finally became Post St. Vincent, and then 
                        Vincennes
                    , in honor of its founder, Sieur De Vincennes. 
                        Vincennes
                     was not a surname, but a title appertaining to one of the Canadian fiefs, this
                    successor to it being Francoise Morgane.
                Unlike Ouiatenon, 
                        Vincennes
                    , almost from the first, had in it the elements of permanence. Peopled by emigrants from 
                        New Orleans
                    , Kaskaskia and various parts of 
                        Canada
                    , it was an agricultural community in a crude way, and here, shut off from civilization
                    by untrod leagues of wilderness, they led a shiftless, indolent, contented life, still retaining the
                    customs and gaieties of La Belle France and adding to their costumes and house furnishings a
                    picturesqueness borrowed of the Indians. There were few iron workers among them, and their
                    implements of husbandry were of the most primitive kind. The rich 
                        Wabash
                     lands returned them a subsistence with a minimum of toil; the more well-to-do class
                    held slaves who relieved them of that little toil, and so there was an abundance of time for the
                    consumption of tobacco and snuff and homemade wines; for the keeping of holidays and the indulgence
                    of the French passion for social intercourse and amusements. Among other things we learn,
                    incidentally, of billiard tables  among them, though how they
                    were transported thither we are left to imagine. Being of the Roman Catholic faith, these easy-going
                    souls were not called upon to solve religious problems, and they were quite as free from
                    responsibility and worry in political affairs. The commandant was king in a small way and the grand
                    arbiter in all matters pertaining to the community. They carried on some commerce with 
                        New Orleans
                    , sending thither flour, pork, hides, etc., and bringing back sugar, metal goods and
                    fabrics.
                For more than half a century this isolated little community flourished, or rather, perhaps,
                    "vegetated" here, untouched by outer influences, but the English acquisition of the West was the
                    beginning of the end for them. Their first realization of the seriousness of the change, perhaps,
                    was in 1772, when General Gage, commander of the English forces in America, issued a proclamation
                    which, treating them as mere squatters, ordered them to leave the Indian country and retire to "the
                    colonies of his Majesty." The poor French, in great consternation, returned a remonstrance, claiming
                    that they had their lands by "sacred titles." Gage, with a show of justice, demanded circumstantial
                    proof of the validity of each title, and as the careless holders had not taken the pains to preserve
                    their documents they were put to their wits end. Eventually, the British ministry not supporting
                    Gage's measures, the matter was ajusted and his Majesty's new subjects allowed to remain on their
                    old claims, where, in time, they were all but obliterated by an alien people; though to the present
                    day there are reminders in 
                        Vincennes
                     of the old French occupancy. Of these three French settlements, Ouiatenon and Fort
                    Miami were in the territory of 
                        Canada
                     and subject to that government, while 
                        Vincennes
                     was in 
                        Louisiana
                    , the border line crossing the 
                        Wabash
                     about where 
                        Terre Haute
                     now stands.
                When, in the fullness of time, the country again changed hands, and, after the stirring events of the
                    Revolution, attention was turned to the great new territory west of the Alleghenies, the importance of the 
                        Wabash
                     was still recognized. General Wayne, according to the knowledge current in his  day, was sagacious and far-seeing. In his famous Indian campaign
                    he planted a fort at the head of the Maumee
                    where the French and English had built their forts before; and in the treaty at 
                        Greenville
                    , following that campaign, he stipulated for a tract six miles square where 
                        Fort Wayne
                     stood; one two miles square on Little River (the Wabash tributary), at the other side of the
                    portage; one six miles square at Ouiatenon, and lands lying about 
                        Vincennes
                     to which the Indian title had been extinguished. In addition it provided for a free
                    navigation of the 
                        Wabash
                    , believing that to be of the greatest military importance to the territory the river
                    threaded. The control of the portage at the head of navigation was the control of the door to that
                    territory, and hence his designation of the spot as "the key to the Northwest." Had not the
                    locomotive become a factor in the trend of aflairs it is more than probable that Wayne's wisdom
                    would have been proven by time.
                A word of post-mortem history touching the doughty veteran who wrested this spot from the red man and
                    established his name here may not be amiss. Wayne, as may be learned from any standard biography of
                    him, died where Erie, Pa., is now located, not long after his conquest of the Northwestern tribes.
                    There he lay buried for thirteen years, when his son removed the remains to the old home place in 
                        Chester county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Further particulars are not, I believe, given in any of the "lives," but some
                    twenty-five years ago a fugitive article afloat in the press added some gruesome details to the
                    established account.∗ According to this the son came over the mountains on his
                    sepulchral errand in a small sulky. When his father's body was disinterred it was found to be in an
                    excellent state of preservation. To transport it thus on the sulky was impossible, and a Dr. John C.
                    Wallace, one of Wayne's old companions in arms, overcame the difficulty by boiling the body, thus
                    separating the flesh from the bones. The flesh was returned to the original grave and the bones,
                    strapped in a box to the sulky, were taken home and re-buried. Thus the dust of the hero of Stony
                    Point has the anomalous distinction of occupying two graves. Over the bones a monument was erected.
                    The first grave was forgotten for many years, when some digger for relics unearthed a coffin lid,
                    with the initials A. W. and the figures of Wayne's age and date of death formed by brass-headed
                    nails.
                [Concluded Next Number.]
                G. S. C.
            
            
            
                Revolutionary Soldiers in 
                        Putnam County
                    
                
                W. H. RAGAN
                
                From the Papers of the 
                        Putnam County
                     Historical Society.
                IT is rather remarkable that 
                        Putnam County
                     should have furnished a home for any survive rof the Revolutionary struggle. When we
                    remember that a period of more than forty years intervened between the close of the Revolutionary
                    War and the pioneer settlements in 
                        Putnam
                    , and when we remember, in addition, that 
                        Putnam County
                     is situated almost a thousand miles from the scenes of that great struggle, it is, as I
                    have stated, rather remarkable that veterans of that war, the youngest of whom must have been
                    nearing his sixtieth year, should have made their way across the mountains and through the
                    wilderness to found new homes in our then sparsely settled country. That some did thus migrate in
                    their old age to become citizens of our county is beyond the question of doubt.
                It is with the hope of stimulating investigation that may lead to the discovery of all those who once
                    had their homes within the limits of our county that I have consented to prepare this paper, in
                    which I shall speak of those only of whom I have some personal or well-authenticated knowledge.
                    There is a small section of country lying immediately north and east of the village of Fillmore and
                    embracing but a few square miles of territory, at least not exceeding a half dozen, in which five
                    survivors of the Revolutionary War spent their last days on earth, and in which their sacred ashes
                    still remain. Three of the five the writer very distinctly remembers, the others dying but a short
                    time before his recollection.
                I doubt if there is an area so small within the limits of the county, or even the State, where so
                    many patriots of our War of Independence spent their last days. This is, perhaps, a mere
                    coincidence, as I know of no community of interests that could have thus brought them together.
                    Indeed, they had been,  for aught I know, entire strangers to
                    each other. Certainly there were no close ties of consanguinity existing among them. Hence, I
                    conjecture that their settlement in such near proximtiy was not by design or purpose on their part.
                The area in which the patriots resided embraced a small portion of the adjacent townships of Floyd
                    and Marion. Three of them resided in the former, and two in the latter-named townships. At least
                    three of the five came to this county with their families, the others perhaps coming with children
                    or friends. Abraham Stobaugh, Silas Hopkins, Samuel Denny, John Bartee and Benjamin Mahorney were
                    the worthy patriots of whom I shall speak. Their deaths occurred in the order in which they are
                    named.
                Abraham Stobaugh came from 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , in company with his son, the late Jacob Stobaugh, and settled in the southern portion
                    of Floyd township. He was the grandfather of Mrs. Anderson M. Robinson, of Filmore, and of the late
                    Mrs. Owen, the deceased wife of our fellowtownsman and ex-County Recorder, George Owen. From Mrs.
                    Robinson I learn that this patriot died in September, 1836, and that he was buried with the honors
                    of war. A militia company from 
                        Greencastle
                    , commanded by the late Col. Lewis H. Sands, fired the salute at the grave. He was
                    buried in a private cemetery on the old Gorham farm in Marion township. There is to-day no trace of
                    this grave remaining, none at least that would indentify it among those of numerous friends and
                    relatives. Mr. Stobaugh left quite a large number of descendants, some of whom still remain in the
                    neighborhood of his former home.
                Silas Hopkins, if tradition may be credited, was a native of the city of 
                        Baltimore
                    , and a supposed relative of the late millionaire merchant and philanthropist, Johns
                    Hopkins, whose name will go down to posterity in connection with the great university his
                    beneficence endowed. Silas Hopkins was the father of the somewhat noted John Deroysha Hopkins, whose
                    eccentric characteristics will be remembered by many in 
                        Putnam County
                    . He was also the father of the late  Mrs. Thomas
                    Gorham, with whom he made his home. Patriot Hopkins was in some particulars not unlike his eccentric
                    son. His death occurred near the close of the fourth decade of this century.
                How long, or when, and at what period of the Revolutionary struggle, and in what branch of the
                    service, or under what command these patriots served, is perhaps unknown to living mortals; but that
                    they were Revolutionary soldiers there is not the shadow of a doubt. Jacob Stobaugh, the son of
                    Abraham was a veteran of the war of 1812, and some of the descendants of Silas Hopkins laid down
                    their lives to preserve that government which he gave his best years to the establishment of. Even
                    his eccentric son, John D., was for a time a Union soldier in the War of the Rebellion. Although at
                    the time beyond the age of military service, he enlisted in Company C, 70th Regiment, and served a
                    part of the second year of the war as a member of that regiment, which was commanded by the only
                    living ex-President of the 
                        United States
                    . At least four grandsons served in the Union Army, two of whom, Silas and Thomas
                    Gorham, laid down their lives in their country's service, and now rest side by side in the village
                    cemetery at Fillmore.
                There is something sadly pathetic in the story of the death of these patriotic grandsons of Silas
                    Hopkins. They had survived the mishaps of war from 1861 to 1865, when one of the brothers began to
                    decline in health. The war was over, and they really were needed no longer at the front. So the sick
                    brother was given a furlough to his home, and for company the well one was sent with him. On the
                    Vandalia train, while halting at the 
                        Greencastle
                     station, and within six miles of home and friends, the invalid brother quietly breathed
                    his last. The survivor tenderly supported the lifeless form of his brother in his arms until the
                    train reached Fillmore, where kind and loving friends performed the last sad rites. But one short
                    month elapsed until the remaining brother was gently laid by his side "in the shadow of the stone."
                In those early days most every farm had its private burial place, in which the members of the family
                    and friends were  interred. The Gorham family was not an
                    exception to this general rule. On the north end of this farm, known to the older residents as the
                    Judge Smith or Gorham farm, and now owned by Albert O. Lockridge of this city, and the first land in
                    the township conveyed by the government to a private individual, is one of these neglected burial
                    places. The location is obscure, and but for a few rough stones, one of which bears the indistinct
                    inscription "W. B.," there is naught to indicate that it is a pioneer cemetery in which many of the
                    early settlers sleep their long sleep. Here rest the mortal remains of Abraham Stobaugh and Silas
                    Hopkins, of Revolutionary memory. But a few years will elapse until this little grave yard will be
                    entirely unknown and forgotten, and posterity will then have naught but tradition as a guide to this
                    spot where lie two of the founders of our Republic.
                Samuel Denny resided in the southern part of Floyd Township on what is now known as the Gravel Pit
                    Farm, which is owned by the Big Four Railway. His home was with an adopted daughter, Mrs. Isaac
                    Yeates, he having had no children of his own. Mr. Denny first settled in Warren Township, where his
                    wife died and was buried. He was the great uncle of our fellow-townsman, James T. Denny, Esq.
                    Patriot Denny had long predicted that his death would occur on the 4th of July, which prediction was
                    verified by the fact. In the early summer of 1843, his rapid decline was noted and on the Nation's
                    sixty-seventh birthday, his gentle spirit took leave of earth. I well remember Mr. Denny, and have
                    him pictured in my mind as a most venerable personage. Indeed he was highly respected and honored by
                    all who knew him. I have already referred to ‘the fact that he had no children of his own. It is,
                    however, a well-verified tradition that he reared thirteen orphan children by adoption, thus showing
                    the great benevolence of his character. He was buried in Warren Township, at what is known as Deer
                    Creek Baptist Church, by the side of his deceased wife, and, I have no doubt, with the honors of war
                    so well befitting the day and the occasion.
                John Bartee's home was on a fraction of the same farm on  which
                    Patriot Denny died, and to which he had, in some way, acquired a fee-simple title. There were ten
                    acres of the little homestead on which he resided. He lived in an humble log cabin, with but one
                    room. Here in company with his feebleminded second wife, and still more imbecile daughter, he spent
                    his last days in extreme poverty. The family were objects of charity. Through the exertions of the
                    late A. B. Matthews, himself a member of the Board of County Commissioners, that body made a small
                    appropriation, I am unable to say just how much, in support of this superannuated veteran; but with
                    all this, only a small share of the good things of earth fell to the lot of our worthy patriot in
                    his declining years. At the early age of sixteen, he participated in the siege of Yorktown and the
                    capture of Lord Cornwallis. His death occurred in February, 1848, and he was buried in the little
                    graveyard on the Yeates farm near by his former home.
                Benjamin Mahorney, the fifth and last survivor, and perhaps among the very last of his race, died in
                    the summer of 1854, more than seventy years after the close of the great struggle in which he was an
                    active participant. His home, like that of Patriot Hopkins, was in the northern portion of Warren
                    township, and immediately on the line of the Big Four Railway, one mile east of the little station
                    of Darwin. He resided with his son, Owen Mahorney, who made him comfortable in his last days. He was
                    a most venerable object, known to the people of the neighborhood as worthy of veneration and
                    respect. His hair was white as the driven snow. Patriot Mahorney was a Virginian, and enlisted from
                    Farquire county, in that State, in the spring of 1779, for a period of eighteen months. He served
                    under Captain Walls, in Colonel Buford's regiment of 
                        Virginia
                     militia. His regiment met the British cavalry, under Colonel Tarleton, at Waxham, 
                        North Carolina
                    , and were repulsed with great loss in killed, wounded and prisoners. Patriot Mahorney
                    was one of the few who escaped injury or capture. His term of enlistment closed on October 25, 1780,
                    nearly seventy-four years prior to his death in this county. From the records of our County Clerk's
                    office, I learn that he made application for a pension at the April term of court in  1833, and that he was at that time seventy-three years of age. From
                    this record I also learn the above facts concerning his enlistment and service in the patriot cause.
                At the time of Benjamin Mahorney's death there was in the neighborhood, a military company with
                    headquarters at the village of Fillmore, and commanded by James H. Summers, a Mexican War veteran,
                    and afterwards Colonel of an 
                        Iowa
                     regiment in the War of the Rebellion. Captain Summers called his company together and
                    fired a salute over the open grave of the last survivor of Revolutionary memory in that
                    neighborhood. The interment was at what is known as the Smythe graveyard, and one mile east of
                    Fillmore. It is probable that the grave of Mr. Mahorney might still be identified. If so, it should
                    become an object of public care and attention for all time to come.
                An incident occurred after the burial of Patriot Mahorney, when Captain Summers, with his company,
                    returned to Fillmore to store their guns in the company's armory. A member of the company, Noah
                    Alley (also a Mexican veteran, and afterwards killed at Cedar Mountain, 
                        Virginia
                    , as a member of the 27th Indiana Regiment) through an awkward mishap, thrust the fixed
                    bayonet of his musket through his leg just above the ankle, making a serious and painful wound. The
                    village boys out of juvenile curiosity had gathered about the military company, and were many of
                    them witnesses to this unfortunate accident. The writer well remembers the impression it made on his
                    youthful mind, and this incident will go down in his memory, associated with the death and burial of
                    the last survivor of the Revolutionary struggle in that part of the county, if not in the State.
                Of these five Revolutoinary patriots, two only, Hopkins and Stobaugh, have living descendants in our
                    midst. Denny, it will be remembered, had no children of his own. Bartee's wife and daughter are long
                    since dead, and the younger Mahorney, after his father's death, together with his family, removed to 
                        Fountain County
                    , where they have been lost to sight, in the busy throng that now throbs and pulsates
                    throughout our land.
            
            
            
                The Journal of John Tipton
                Commissioner to Locate Site for State Capital—1820
                (Concluded.)
                [NOTE.—The first installment of this journal was copied from Tipton's original
                    manuscript. This part is a reprint from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, as published by the owner of the MS., Mr. John H. Holliday (see the News, April
                    17, 1879). In this newspaper version some of Tipton's illiteracies have been dropped.]
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Monday 29 a fine clier morning, after breckfast I paid $3.00 for the co's bill (viz)
                                    Bartholomew Durham and myself with Bill the negro. We then set out to look at the
                                    country down to the town of 
                                        Spencer
                                    , the seat of justice of 
                                        Owen county
                                    . At 12 stopt on small Branch. Boiled our coffy, 45 p 12. Set out at 15
                                    p 3, crost Fall Creek,
                                    continued down the river, at 7 stopt at some Indian camps. Had a pleasant K't,
                                    having good (?) shelter and (?) Bark to sleep on.
                                Tuesday 30th
                                Couldy morning. Some rain. We set out at 6. At 45 p 7 the Bluffs. Stopt at Whetsalls
                                    for B. Paid 37 ½. Set out at 9. Some rain. Stopt at 12. Found the corner of S 22
                                    & 23, 26 & 27 in T 11, Nor R I E. The ground hilly. Good timber. I
                                    went out hunting, could not kill anything. Set out at ½ p I. Saw some clay that we
                                    think would make brick. Past a house. Saw a beautifull lake, i mile long &
                                    100 yds. wide, clier water, sandy bottom. I am told the river in a high stage runs
                                    into it. Went ½ mile west, saw corner of of S 5 & 6, 7 & 8, T 11 N
                                    of R I E. Land and timber good. Crost the river at ½ p 4, at small prairie through
                                    which 2d p meridian runs. We traveled west through a good bottom. Saw a large field
                                    new (?). Stopt for the K't with a Mr. Harris who lives on the n. w. qr. of S. 11, T
                                    11, north of R I, W. Staid 3 days in this neighborhood to rest ourselves and horses.
                                Wednesday 31. Set out at 5. Traveled west down the path, at 7 came on the river; made
                                    coffey. At 10 passed L.  Gass, sec 31, t 11 n, r
                                    2 w; ½ p 12 came to J Harts on sec 21, t 10 n, r 3 west.
                                Saturday, 3d June. 1820. We paid nothing. Set out from Mr. Harts at ½ p 9 for the
                                    mouth of. Fall Creek, having
                                    been furnished with everything necessary for our journey. The land rather broken,
                                    tho' good soil. At ½ p 12 came to a section line. Found the corner of sections 21,
                                    22, 27 and 28 in t 11 north of range 2 west. The north west quarter of section 28 is
                                    good land; the timber, sugar, beech, cherry, At ½ p 2 came to the river, Stopt to
                                    boil coffy. Staid untill 45 p 3. Set out and traveled through a large bottom, most
                                    of which is good land, some part overflowed. The bottom seems to be 10 or 12 miles
                                    long and very wide. The timber, sugar beech, walnut hackberry. The under growth is
                                    mostly prickly ash, some spice and pawpaw, as is most of the bottom on this side of
                                    the river. At 15 p 6 came to the river opposite a very high bluff. Turned up it, and
                                    at ½ p 6 crost one part of the river into an island. I shot 147 yards at a turkey
                                    and killed it. Here we encamped. The river here is divided into several small shutes
                                    or channels. I went on the bluffs to examine them but found them to be from 100 to
                                    200 feet in height, and very uneven on the top. The river at these islands, 7 in
                                    number, is very much choked and one part of the old bed for about 250 yards is
                                    entirely dry, the water passing through small channels from northeast to southwest,
                                    as follows, (One page of the diary has a rough drawing of these seven islands) as
                                    near as I could take it down with my pocket compass, which we called the seven
                                    islands. This obstruction entirely prevents the pass of any water craft, even the
                                    smallest canoe can not pass them at this time, and I am told that the river has been
                                    lower than it is at this time.∗ Here we spent the evening and
                                    kt.
                                Sunday the 4. The morning fine, cool and clier. General 
                                        
                                            ∗ In the Baskin and Forster atlas map, of 1876, a series
                                            of four islands are shown in the southwest corner of 
                                                Morgan
                                                County
                                            , some miles below 
                                                Martinsville
                                            . These would seem to be the ones Tipton describes. Of the lake
                                            spoken of further on, in the s. e. qr. of s. 5, in T. 11 north, R. I E.,
                                            (which would be immediately southwest of the site of 
                                                Martinsville
                                            ,) no trace is now given.
                                    
                                     Bartholomew and me set out as soon as light to
                                    view those islands to enable me to make the above and foregoing rough draft, whch is
                                    only to be for my own satisfaction, believing the State legislature will take the
                                    earliest opportunity to remove this great obstruction to the navigation of this
                                    beautiful stream. We levelled island No. 5, found it about ten feet above the water
                                    at the present time. Set out at ½ p 11. Came to the lake on the S E qr of s 5 in T
                                    11 north of R I E. I rode out to the east, Found section 4 all level, rich soil and
                                    am told that the north half of 9 is also good land.
                                South half of 34. (?). On the S. E. qr. of 34, T 12 north of R I E a house—good
                                    spring. Sec. 35 good land.∗ The timber on this land is white and
                                    black walnut, cherry, sugar, hackberry, mulberry, and some beech and hickory. We
                                    then traveled s 21 and 16. Both good land with the best of black walnut timber I
                                    have seen. Crost a high bluff on the river and at 15 p 4 crost the river to the n w
                                    side and stopt to boil our coffy. Set out at 15 p 5 came to the sections 34
                                    & 35 in T 12 n of R I E. The south e quarter of s 34 is good land and the n
                                    e of 13 T 12 R I E. The s e qr of s 35 is the best I have seen, the corner on the
                                    bank of White lick creek on which we encamped at dark near a good lick.
                                Monday the 5—Before I was up Gen'l B and Col. D. went to the lick. The Col. killed a
                                    deer.†.
                                We had a good breakfast and set out at 7.
                                Traveled ½ mile over poor hills then level back land. Some sugar, ash and walnut. At
                                    8 came to the corner of sections 13 & 24 in T 13 north of R I E. We then
                                    traveled n e ½ mile and crosst White lick creek. The land good. We crosst the creek
                                    on a ripple. It is a fine creek and has the appearance of being a fine mill stream.
                                    The land mostly level. For some distance the timber, beech, sugar, ash &c.
                                    Came to the river at ½ p 9 at a place where the river runs near a hill about 50 feet
                                    high. Turned up the bottom. Traveled 
                                        
                                            ∗ These various sections lie in the immediate vicinity
                                            of the 
                                                Martinsville
                                             site.
                                        †This lick, from the description, was about 1 ½ miles south of Centerton,
                                            near the "Blue Bluffs."
                                    
                                     near the hill, which is 30 to 50 feet in height
                                    of a gradual ascent. The top good upland, the bottom the best soil for duration I
                                    have seen on White river. The
                                    soil very fine mixed with clay. The timber hackberry, buckeye, sugar, walnut, ash.
                                    At ½ p 10 saw a spring which pleases me the best of any I have seen on the river,
                                    which I intend to purchase at the sale. A Mr. Brown lives on it; from the hill
                                    issues a number of fine springs. At ½ p 11 came to the camp of a Mr. William Sanders
                                    (or Landers), covered with young timber. Here I am told was once a French village
                                    once occupied by the 
                                        Delaware
                                     Indians, but evacuated by them about 33 years ago.∗
                                    The land is rich and level; staid ½ an hour. Set out at 15 p 12; stopt at small
                                    branch to boil our coffy and venison of which we have plenty. We set out and saw the
                                    range line between 2 & 3 east in town 14 north. At 20 p 4 crosst a fine
                                    large creek. Eagle creek; large a-plenty to turn a mill. Saw fine land, good timber,
                                    crosst the river one mile below the mouth of Fall creek at ½ p 6. where we found the
                                    commrs., Gov. Jennings etc., waiting for us: Went to see the surveyor, found his
                                    work so much forward as to enable us to finish our business.
                                Tuesday 6th. A very cool morning. This day we spent in reading and walking around the
                                    lines of the sections that we intend to locate, and in the evening returned to our
                                    encampment, having removed to the n w side of the river this morning, above the
                                    mouth of Fall creek, and stretched our tent on a high bank which we called
                                    Bartholomew's bluff, on fractional section number 3, which is part of our location.
                                Wednesday, 7th, a fine, clear morning. We met at Mc-Cormicks, and on my motion the
                                    commissioners came to a resolution to select and locate sections numbered 1 and 12,
                                    and east and west fractional sections numbered 2, and east fractional section 11,
                                    and so much off the east side of west fractional section number 3, to be divided by
                                    a north and south line running parallel to the west boundary of said section, as
                                    will equal in amount 4 entire sections in r 15 n. of 
                                        
                                            ∗ See "Indian Towns in 
                                                Marion
                                                County
                                            ," No. 1 of this Magazine.
                                    
                                     R, 3, E, We left our clerk making out his
                                    minutes and our report, and went to camp to dine. Returned after dinner. Our paper
                                    being ready, B. D and myself returned to camp at 4. They went to sleep and me to
                                    writing. At 5 we decamped and went over to McCormicks. Our clerk having his writing
                                    ready the commissioners met and signed their report, and certified the service of
                                    the clerk. At 6:45 the first boat landed that ever was seen at the seat of
                                    government. It was a small ferry flat with a canoe tied alongside, both loaded with
                                    the household goods of two families moving to the mouth of Fall creek. They came in
                                    a keel boat as far as they could get it up the river, then reloaded the boat and
                                    brought up their goods in the flat and canoe.∗ I paid for some
                                    corn and w (?) 62½.
                                Thursday 17th—A fine cool morning. We rose early. I paid for commissioners $1.25 and
                                    for supper $1.12½. Col. D paid one dollar and we set out at 15 p 5 for home in
                                    company with Ludlow, Gilliland, Blythe, Bartholomew, Durham, Governor Jennings and
                                    two Virginians. At 8 stopt on a small creek to boil our coffy for the last time as
                                    we boiled the last we had. Set out at 15 p 9. At 45 past 9 crosst a creek. At ½ p 11
                                    crosst a creek. At 1 stopt to boil our baken. Staid until ½ p 2. Set out and at 7
                                    came to John Berry, having traveled about 45 miles over a bad path.
                                Friday, 9. Clier morning. We set out at 15 p 5. At ½ p 7 came to the upper rapids of
                                    drift river. Stopt to let our horses graze. Set out at 9. At 12 stopt at Mr. J.
                                    Radcliffe's. Had some bread and milk for our dinner and some corn for our horses.
                                    Paid 37½ by B, and set out at ½ p 5 Stopt at Capt. J. Shields, staid all night.
                                Saturday 10. Clear and very hot. Set out at ¼ p 5. Stopt at 
                                        Brownstown
                                    . Had breakfast; paid 50. Stopt with Col. Durham in 
                                        Vallonia
                                    , who had left us last kt and went home. Stopt at Win. Grayham's, staid
                                    1 hour. Stopt with Gen. De Pauw, had dinner, and at dark stopt in 
                                        Salem
                                    .
                                Sunday the 11—Cloudy, some rain. Set out at ½ p 4. At 15 p 6 stopt at Wilcoxes. Had
                                    breakfast, paid $2 by me. 
                                        
                                            ∗ Who these two families were is nowhere
                                        recorded.
                                    
                                     Stopt at Major Arganbrites (?), had dinner, etc.
                                    At dark got safe home, having been absent 27 days, the compensation allowed us
                                    commissioners by the law being $2 for every 25 miles traveling to and from the
                                    plaice where we met, and $2 for each day's service while ingaged in the discharge of
                                    our duty, my pay for the trip being $58—not half what I could have made in my
                                    office. A very poor compensation.
                                JOHN TIPTON.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
                Some Early Indiana Taverns
                FROM THE PAPERS OF THE LATE J. H. B. NOWLAND
                
                THE writer commenced traveling through the State at the age of ten years, and has kept it up pretty
                    well for nearly fifty, which has given him an opportunity to learn something of the different
                    taverns and their proprietors.
                Prerequisite to securing a tavern license was the certificate of a free-holder testifying that the
                    applicant had two spare beds, and two stalls that were not necessary for his own use. Included in
                    the tavern privilege was the right to retail spirituous liquors—this being the only form of liquor
                    license issued in the earlier days. An old man I knew, wishing a license, rented two beds in a
                    neighbor's house and two stalls in his stable. This the neighbor certified to and the license was
                    procured.
                There was a class of houses of which no license was required, and these were usually announced on
                    their signs as places of "Private Entertainment."
                On the different roads radiating from 
                        Indianapolis
                     were many taverns, well known in their day, a few of which may be mentioned. On the
                    Michigan road, south, was Goble's, near Pleasant View; Adkin's, just this side of 
                        Shelbyville
                    ; Mrs. Louden's, just beyond the latter place; Boardman's, in 
                        Dearborn County
                    . On the Madison road were Isaac Smock's, Mrs. Adams', Widow Thompson's, Chauncey
                    Butler's (this was Ovid Butler's father), and many others. On the Michigan road, north, were George
                    Aston's and Widow Davis'; on the National road, east, were Fuller's, John Hagar's and Beckner's.  On all the roads, indeed, were numerous well-known taverns where
                    first-class entertainment could be had for "man and beast"—for the man, ham and eggs, fried chicken,
                    light biscuit and buckwheat cakes with honey; for the beast, a warm stable, with plenty of oats and
                    hay—and all for 75 cents.
                The signs before the taverns were sometimes as odd and catching as the modern advertisement. I
                    remember one which hung in West Washington street that was made like a gate with slats, and on the
                    slats was painted: 
                        "This gate hangs high and hinders none, Refresh and pay then travel on."
                        JOHN FERNLEY.
                        
                    
                
                Another on Washington street, opposite the court house read on one side: "Traveler's Ray House,
                    Cheap," and on the other, "Traveler's Ray House, Cash."
                The first sign painter in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Samuel S. Rooker, put before the public gaze some samples of his handiwork that I well
                    remember. Mr. Rooker came at a very early day, and his first order was from Caleb Scudder, the
                    cabinet maker. When the sign was done it was in flaming red letter and read, "Kalop Skodder,
                    Kabbinet Maker." His next was for the "Rosebush" and "Eagle" Taverns, which he executed to the
                    satisfaction of his patrons, but the critics said the picture of the royal bird on the latter sign
                    was a turkey. A tavern-keeper on the National road ordered a life-sized lion on his sign, but when
                    Mr. Rooker had finished his job he had hard work proving that it was not a prairie wolf. Rooker's
                    most notable work of art, however, was one that stood on the Michigan road about six miles southeast
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was a portrait of General Lafayette in full uniform. The board on which it was
                    painted was not long enough for the heroic scale on which the picture was begun, so the legs were
                    cut short and the put on where the knees should have been. Mr. Rooker's own advertisement long stood
                    on the northeast corner of Washington and Illinois streets, and read: "Samuel S. Rooker, House and
                    Sine Painter."
            
            
            
                An Early 
                        Indiana
                     Educator
                John B. Anderson
                FOR nearly a quarter of a century, dating from 1840, John B. Anderson was a resident of 
                        New Albany
                    , and for nearly twenty years he was principal of two famous classical schools —schools
                    which had then not their equal in the Middle West, and which will always live in local history as
                    not having been surpassed even in this present era of progressive education.
                In 1840 Mr. John B. Anderson, a graduate of the historic Washington and Jefferson College, came from 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        Pa.
                    , to 
                        Brandenburg
                    , 
                        Ky
                    . There he engaged in educational work and there also he was married to Miss Cecelia
                    Geraldine Alexander. At 
                        New Albany
                     in 1840, appeared Mr. Anderson, a man of impressive presence, unusual height and size,
                    of fine character and rare scholarly attainments. He was accompanied by his wife, a woman possessing
                    all the grace and culture of the representative Southern woman of that day, and an unmarried sister,
                    Miss Nancy Anderson, also a woman of elegance and accomplishment. In this year was founded
                    "Anderson's High School for Boys," designed as the catalogue stated, to be "a permanent English and
                    classical school, in which young men might be prepared for the advanced classes in college, or for
                    entering upon the business of life, professional or otherwise." An able body of professors was
                    secured, a fine curriculum in English, Latin, Greek and mathematical studies established—Monsieur
                    Picot in charge of "the French language and literature," and the school at once began to flourish.
                    It drew patronage from many towns in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Indiana
                    , also from 
                        Arkansas
                    , 
                        Mississippi
                    , 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and even from far 
                        New York
                    . In the prospectus issued by Mr. Anderson, 
                        New Albany
                     was highly commended for its healthfulness, the gentral morality and industry of its
                    inhabitants, and as a place offering fewer inducements to vice than most other towns in the country.
                In compliance, no doubt, with "the general pecuniary embarrassment of the times," as mentioned in the
                    prospectus,  the educational rates were surprisingly moderate;
                    tuition and board, including fuel and lights, per quarter of eleven weeks, costing only $31.25;
                    French lessons, $5 extra; vocal music, under Prof. S. W. Leonard, $1 per quarter, and washing, per
                    dozen, 38 cents. To this early school of the Anderson regime came, from Fort Smith, Ark., two boys
                    named Hickory and Pinckney Rogers—known among their classmates as "Hickory" and "Pickory." From 
                        Arkansas
                     also came several Indian lads of the Chickasaw tribe: Zack Colbert, son of the chief of
                    the Chickasaw nation, and two half-breeds, David and John Vann, one a blonde, the other a typical
                    brown Indian, sons of Capt. John Vann, of the ill-fated Ohio River steamer, Lucy Walker. Among other Anderson school boys of this period
                    were Gerard Alexander, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , nephew of Mrs. Anderson, known to his classmates as "Ohio Piomingo Alexander," and
                    William H. Hillyer, afterwards a colonel and a member of Gen. U. S. Grant's staff during the war.
                    Further on in the chronicles are found other names now prominent in various ways: Charles W.
                    Shields, professor at 
                        Princeton
                     College; Hon. Jesse J. Brown, Hon. Alexander Dowling, of 
                        New Albany
                    ; Mr. Henry Crawford, of 
                        Chicago
                    , and the name of Vinton Nunemacher—dead at twenty-three—who once won intellectual spurs
                    among the "Old Seminary Boys," of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                For the establishment of Anderson's Female Seminary, in 1843, a large, old-fashioned, red brick
                    mansion on the corner of the public square was chosen by Mr. Anderson, and a corps of eight
                    instructors was secured, which was afterwards extended to thirteen. In 1850, 103 pupils were in
                    attendance and in 1853, 132 names were registered in the catalogue. Of the quaint old residence in
                    which this seminary flourished a word must be said. It once ranked as "the finest dwelling in 
                        New Albany
                    ," but in 1895 was torn down, having degenerated into a troublesome and unprofitable
                    tenement house. In the thirties, it was built by Mr. Erastus Benton, a wealthy Pittsburg man,
                    interested in the 
                        New Albany
                     iron factories. This pretentious house, with its great walls and gables, broad  porches and unusual architectural adornments, demanded an
                    elegant interior. The handsome furnishings called for costly entertainments, and in a few years, the
                    owner was disastrously involved in debt, the fine residence was sold and became rental property,
                    locally registered as "Benton's Folly." Its large halls, commodious drawing room and parlors, airy
                    galleries and unusual number of bed-rooms rendered it especially adapted to the needs of the female
                    seminary, which occupied it for a long and flourishing term of years.
                The girls' school was but a few minutes walk from the boys' school, and Mr. Anderson held both in
                    careful superintendence. In addition to solid attainments the young women were taught French and
                    German, with piano, guitar and harp lessons, vocal music, drawing and painting in oil and water.
                    Plain and ornamental needle work were also taught. Girls held lower rank financially than boys in
                    that epoch, as tuition was billed at $75 per season, with washing 50 cents per dozen. Piano and
                    guitar lessons were 25 cents each, while French and German lessons, and lessons in painting and
                    drawing were 10 cents each; a lesson in oil coloring was rated at 15 cents, and vocal music at 2
                    cents per lesson. From North and South, East and West, came young women to this noted classical
                    school for girls; many of the instructors were from 
                        New York
                     State, and pupils were on the records from Oswego and Saratoga, from Mobile and 
                        New Orleans
                    . Among the teachers, at one time, was Miss Caroline Cornelia Cooke, of 
                        New York
                    , afterwards the wife of Indiana's Governor, Ashabel P. Willard. Mr. Willard, it is
                    related, was assiduous in his attendance during leisure hours at Anderson's Seminary, and some of
                    the young women who were pursuing the deep sciences and the elegant graces, did not fancy his
                    physical peculiarities, his neck being notably longer than that of the average man. Girls will be
                    girls, even with all the classics at their beck and call, and one staid matron now vividly
                    recollects being reprimanded and incarcerated ignominiously for calling down the corridor to another
                    girl, as Mr. Willard, on a prancing steed, drew rein at the pavement: "Look, look; there comes
                    Neck."
                
                "Regulations," in the Anderson schools, although described in the catalogue as "kind, though firm and
                    decided," were really almost a minus quantity. Among other quaint features of the catalogue of
                    1850-51 is the name, on the list of instructors, of Miss Rhoda B. Byers, monitress. Certainly, the
                    "power of presence" was never more strongly exemplified than in this instance, Mr. Anderson's
                    amplitude of gracious authority, Mrs. Anderson's genial bearing and Miss Nancy's friendly
                    stateliness operating in all cases as potent disarmament of unruliness and insubordination.
                    Godliness, too, abode in the Anderson classical schools, pupils being required to attend worship,
                    either in the churches of their choice, or with the family of the principal. Mr. Anderson came of a
                    family of clergymen, his father, Rev. Dr. John Anderson, and his brother, Rev. Wm. C. Anderson,
                    being prominent in the Presbyterian Church in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        Kansas
                    .
                Among the attractive features of these old-time schools, the family atmosphere is described as having
                    been unusual and most atractive. Out of harness Mr. Anderson was always a popular social center, the
                    girls clustering about him with fearless and animated devotion. The 
                        New Albany
                     pupils consisted of the flower of the town, and now, in all old 
                        New Albany
                     families, eyes kindle and words of praise are spoken at the mere mention of the
                    Anderson family. Several years ago, down in French town—Porr'entrury—I came upon an elderly
                    Frenchman, a farmer and a wagon maker, whose dignity of bearing, choice language and general
                    information impressed me as unusual, until the fact was elicited that he had been educated in John
                    B. Anderson's school, walking to town, and paying for his tuition by serving as janitor boy. On his
                    table was the 
                        New York
                     Tribune, to which he told me he had been a subscriber since 1853.
                In 1853 Mr. C. C. Hine and lady, of 
                        New York
                    , became associated in the management of the seminary, and at this date more than fifty
                    graduates, with twelve resident graduates, are noted in the catalogue as the fruits of the preceding
                    scholastic years. Mr. and Mrs. Hine were notable additions to social 
                        New Albany
                    , and the former  afterwards became prominent in 
                        New York
                     banking and insurance circles. Mrs. Hine was a woman of much culture and many
                    accomplishments, and her presence gave additional zest to the care with which feminine deportment
                    was molded in the Anderson Seminary. In those days membership in this classical institution was, in
                    itself, passport to the upper intellectual and social life of the town; and, even at this day, can
                    be set apart, as a class formed on old-school models of punctilious gentleness and courtesy, the 
                        New Albany
                     men and women who enjoyed such privileges and example. A true "great heart" in many
                    ways was John B. Anderson, and on the register of his good deeds is noted one most interesting
                    incident. From 
                        Louisiana
                     to these schools in far Indiana came a little group of two boys and a girl. For one
                    year their tuition bills were promptly met, but after that appeared a financial vacuum. Mr.
                    Anderson, however, kept the children in the school several years at his own expense, and it has
                    never been known whether or not this outlay was made good to him by their derelict guardians. In
                    1850, 1851, 1852 and 1853 the Indiana girls in the Anderson schools, outside of 
                        New Albany
                     were Eunice Meberd, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; Mary E. Hall, 
                        Princeton
                    ; Annie J. Vance, Corydon; Elizabeth and Cordelia Devin, 
                        Princeton
                    ; Nannie Fabrique, Pilot Knob; Eliza J. Foster, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Olivia Mitchell, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Arabella D. Wise, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; Sarah Ann Devin, 
                        Princeton
                    ; Sarah Devol, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; Clarinda Mitchell, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Mary E. Rice, Corydon; M. J. O'Riley, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Ellen M. Brackenridge, Newburg; D. M. Dietz, 
                        Charlestown
                    ; Mary Hurd, 
                        Bedford
                    ; Nannie Johnston, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Glen J. McJunkin, Washington; Mary Miller, Bono; Emma Riley, Orleans, and Helen Von
                    Trees, Washington. At the 
                        Chicago
                     Beach Hotel this summer two ladies who had just met investigated an instinctive
                    friendliness which they felt for each other and found the bond to be that they were both graduates
                    of the Anderson Seminary at 
                        New Albany
                    —one having been graduated in 1850, the other being probably the last graduate to whom
                    the school had given a diploma. Owing to ill health in 1858, the master of the Anderson schools
                    retired from collegiate labor and entered  upon a long and
                    successful career as builder and manager of railroads. During the war Secretary Stanton recognized
                    his fine grasp of affairs, his cool judgment and remarkable executive ability, and pressed him to
                    accept a position as brigadier general. This honor was declined, but he did accept an appointment as
                    general manager of the 
                        United States
                     military railways, serving faithfully and retiring at his own request in 1864. Mr.
                    Anderson was a wonderful reader and book lover, and at the time of his golden wedding assisted in
                    founding at the College of Emporia, 
                        Kan.
                    , an Anderson memorial library, instead of accepting for himself and wife the usual
                    gifts which such celebrations evoke. Mrs. Anderson survives him. No children were ever born to this
                    couple, whose domestic relations were otherwise ideal, but in the remembrance of many school
                    children and school children's children shall their lives and works be perpetuated.
                EMMA CARLETON
                
                
                    NOTE—For further information about John B. Anderson by the same writer, see The
                            Book-Lover Magazine, July-August, 1903. In this sketch Mrs. Carleton credits Anderson
                        with having directly inspired the munificent library gifts of Andrew Carnegie.
                
            
            
                Origin of the Word Hoosier
                [The many and varied accounts of the origin of the term "Hoosier" mostly have in common one
                    thing—improbability. These stories are too well known to give space to here and may be found
                    elsewhere—for instance in Meredith Nicholson's "The Hoosiers." So far as we know Jacob P. Dunn is
                    the only one who has made anything like a thorough study of the question, and because his
                    conclusions seem to us the most reasonable theory in the field, and, in addition, are but little
                    known, we think they will be of interest here. The following article is the second of two that
                    appeared in the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News (see Aug. 23 and 30, 1902), and contains the substance of Mr. Dunn's
                    argument, the first being, mainly, a discussion of the current stories. The entire study in a
                    revised form will probably be published before very long in the collections of the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society.]
                In 1854 Amelia M. Murray visited 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and was for a time the guest of Governor Wright. In her book, entitled "Letters from
                    the 
                        United States
                    , 
                        Cuba
                     and 
                        Canada
                    " (page 324), she says: "Madame Pfeiffer (she evidently meant Mrs. Puslzky, for Madame
                    Pfeiffer did not come here and  does not mention the subject)
                    mistook Governor Wright when she gave from his authority another derivation for the word ‘Hoosier.’
                    It originated in a settler's exclaiming ‘Huzza,’ upon gaining the victory over a marauding party
                    from a neighboring State." With these conflicting statements, I called on Mr. John C. Wright, son of
                    Governor Wright. He remembered the visits of the Pulszkys and Miss Murray, but knew nothing of
                    Madame Pfeiffer. He said: "I often heard my father discuss this subject. His theory was that the
                    Indiana flatboatmen were athletic and pugnacious, and were accustomed, when on the levees of the
                    Southern cities, to ‘jump up and crack their heels together, and shout ‘Huzza,’ whence the name of
                    ‘huzza’ fellows.' We have the same idea now in ‘hoorah people,’ or ‘a hoorah time.’"
                It will be noted that all these theories practically carry three features in common:
                
                    They are alike in the idea that the word was first applied to a rough, boisterous, uncouth,
                        illiterate class of people, and that the word originally implied this character.
                    They are alike in the idea that the word came from the South, or was first applied by Southern
                        people.
                    They are alike in the idea that the word was coined for the purpose of designating Indiana
                        people, and was not in existence before it was applied to them.
                
                If our primary suspicion be correct, that all the investigators and theorists have followed some
                    false lead from the beginning, it will presumably be found in one of these three common features. Of
                    the three, the one that would more probably have been derived from assumption than from observation
                    is the third. If we adopt the hypothesis that it is erroneous, we have left the proposition that the
                    word "hoosier" was in use at the South, signifying a rough or uncouth person, before it was applied
                    to 
                        Indiana
                    ; and if this was true it would presumably continue to be used there in that sense. Now
                    this condition actually exists, as appears from the following evidence.
                In her recent novel, "In Connection with the De Willoughby 
                    Claim," Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett refers several times to one of her characters—a boy from 
                        North Carolina
                    — as a "hoosier." In reply to an inquiry she writes to me: "The word ‘hoosier’ in 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     seemed to imply, as you suggest, an uncouth sort of rustic. In the days when I first
                    heard it my idea was also that—in agreement with you again—it was a slang term. I think a
                    Tennesseean or Carolinian of the class given to colloquialism would have applied the term ‘hoosier’
                    to any rustic person without reference to his belonging to any locality in particular. But when I
                    lived in 
                        Tennessee
                     I was very young and did not inquire closely into the matter."
                Mrs. C. W. Bean, of Washington, Ind., furnishes me this statement: "In the year 1888, as a child, I
                    visited 
                        Nashville
                     , 
                        Tenn.
                     One day I was walking down the street with two of my aunts, and our attention was
                    attracted by the large number of mountaineers on the streets, mostly from northern 
                        Georgia
                    , who had come in to some sort of society meeting. One of my aunts said, ‘What a lot of
                    hoosiers there are in town.’ In surprise I said, ‘Why, I am a ‘Hoosier.’ A horrified look came over
                    my aunt's face, and she exclaimed, ‘For the Lord's sake, child, don't let anyone here know you're a
                    hoosier.’ I did not make the claim again, for on inspection the visitors proved a wild-looking lot
                    who might be suspected of never having seen civilization before."
                Mrs. Mary E. Johnson, of 
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Tenn.
                    , gives the following statement: "I have been familiar with the use of the word
                    ‘hoosier’ all my life, and always as meaning a rough class of country people. The idea attached to
                    it, as I understand it, is not so much that they are from the country, as that they are green and
                    gawky. I think the sense is much the same as in ‘hayseed,’ ‘jay’ or ‘yahoo.’"
                Hon. Thetus W. Simes, Representative in Congress from the Tenth 
                        Tennessee
                     District, says: "I have heard all my life of the word ‘hoosier’ as applied to an
                    ignorant, rough, unpolished fellow."
                The following three statements were furnished to me by  Mr.
                    Meredith Nicholson, who collected them some months since.
                John Bell Henneman, of the department of English, University of 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        Knoxville
                    , writes: "The word ‘hoosier’ is generally used in 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        South Carolina
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                     as an equivalent for ‘a country hoodlum,' ‘a rough, uncouth countryman,' etc. The idea
                    of the ‘country’ is always attached to it in my mind, with a degree of ‘uncouthness’ added. I simply
                    speak from my general understanding of the term as heard used in the States mentioned above."
                Mr. Raymond Weeks, of 
                        Columbia
                    , 
                        Mo.
                    , writes: "Pardon my delay in answering your question concerning the word ‘hoosier’ in
                    this section. The word means a native of 
                        Indiana
                    , and has a rare popular sense of a backwoodsman, a rustic. One hears: ‘He's a regular
                    hoosier.’ "
                Mrs. John M. Judah, of 
                        Memphis
                    , writes: "About the word ‘Hoosier'—one hears it in 
                        Tennessee
                     often. It always means rough, uncouth, countrified. ‘I am a Hoosier,’ I have said, and
                    my friends answered bewilderdly. ‘But all Indiana-born are Hoosiers,’ I declare. ‘What nonsense!’ is
                    the answer generally, but one old politician responded with a little more intelligence on the
                    subject: ‘You Indianians should forget that. It has been untrue for many years.’ In one of Mrs.
                    Evans's novels—‘St. Elmo,' I think—a noble and philanthropic young Southern woman is reproached by
                    her haughty father for teaching the poor children in the neighborhood—‘a lot of hoosiers,' he calls
                    them. I have seen it in other books, too, but I cannot recall them. In newspapers the word is common
                    enough, in the sense I refer to."
                It is scarcely possible that this wide-spread use of the word in this general sense could have
                    resulted if the word had been coined to signify a native of Indiana, but it would have been natural
                    enough, if the word were in common use as slang in the South, to apply it to the people of Indiana.
                    Many of the early settlers were of a rough and ready character, and doubtless most of them looked it
                    in their long and toilsome emigration, but, more than that, it is an historical fact that  about the time of the publication of Finley's poem there was a great
                    fad of nicknaming in the West, and especially as to the several States. It was a feature of the
                    humor of the day, and all genial spirits "pushed it along." A good illustration of this is seen in
                    the following passage from Hoffman's "Winter in the West" (published in 1835, Vol. i, Page 210)
                    referred to above:
                "There was a long-haired ‘hooshier’ from 
                        Indiana
                    , a couple of smart-looking ‘suckers’ from the southern part of 
                        Illinois
                    , a keen-eyed, leather-belted ‘badger’ from the mines of Ouis-consin, and a sturdy,
                    yeomanlike fellow, whose white capot, Indian moccasins and red sash proclaimed, while he boasted a
                    three years' residence, the genuine ‘wolverine,’ or nauralized Michiganian. Could one refuse to
                    drink with such a company? The spokesman was evidently a ‘red horse’ from 
                        Kentucky
                    , and nothing was wanting but a ‘buckeye’ from 
                        Ohio
                     to render the assemblage as complete as it was select."
                This same frontier jocularity furnishes an explanation for the origin of several of the theories of
                    the derivation of the name. If an assuming sort of person, in a crowd accustomed to the use of
                    "hoosier" in its general slang sense, should pretentiously announce that he was a "husher," or a
                    "hussar," nothing would be more characteristically American than for somebody to observe, "He is a
                    hoosier, sure enough." And the victim of the little pleasantry would naturally suppose that the
                    joker had made a mistake in the term. But the significance of the word must have been quite
                    generally understood, for the testimony is uniform that it carried its slurring significance from
                    the start. Still it was not materially more objectionable than the names applied to the people of
                    other States, and it was commonly accepted in the spirit of humor. As Mr. Finley put it, in later
                    forms of his poem:  With feelings proud we contemplate The rising glory of
                        our State, Nor take offense by application Of its good-natured appellation. 
                
                It appears that the word was not generally known throughout the State until after the publication of
                    "The Hoosiers'  Nest," though it was known earlier in some
                    localities, and these localities were points of contact with the Southern people. And this was true
                    as to Mr. Finley's locality, for the upper part of the Whitewater valley was
                    largely settled by Southerners, and from the 
                        Tennessee
                    -Carolina mountain region, where the word was especially in use. Such settlements had a
                    certain individuality. In his "Sketches" (page 38) the Rev. Aaron Wood says:
                "Previously to 1830 society was not homogeneous, but in scraps, made so by the eclectic affinity of
                    race, tastes, sects and interest. There was a wide difference in the domestic habits of the families
                    peculiar to the provincial gossip, dialect and taste of the older States fro mwhich they had
                    emigrated."
                The tradition in my own family, which was located in the lower part of the Whitewater valley, is that
                    the word was not heard there until "along in the thirties." In that region it always carries the
                    idea of roughness or uncouthness, and it developed a derivative—"hoosiery"—which was used as an
                    adjective or adverb to indicate something that was rough, awkward or shiftless. Testimony as to a
                    similar condition in the middle part of the Whitewater valley is furnished in the following
                    statement, given me by the Rev. T. A. Goodwin:
                "In the summer of 1830 I went with my father, Samuel Goodwin, from our home at 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . We traveled in an old-fashioned one-horse Dearborn wagon. I was a boy of twelve years,
                    and it was a great occasion for me. At 
                        Cincinnati
                     I had a fip for a treat, and at that time there was nothing I relished so much as one
                    of those big pieces of gingerbread that were served as refreshment on muster days, Fourth of July
                    and other gala occasions, in connection with cider. I went into a baker's shop and asked for ‘a
                    fip's worth of gingerbread.’ The man said, ‘I guess you want hoosier-bait,' and when he produced it
                    I found that he had the right idea. That was the first time I ever heard the word ‘hoosier,’ but in
                    a few years it became quite commonly applied to 
                        Indiana
                     people. The gingerbread referred to was cooked in square pans—about fifteen inches
                    across, I should think—and  with furrows marked across the top,
                    dividing it into quarter sections. A quarter section sold for a fip, which was 6 ¼ cents. It is an
                    odd fact that when Hosier J. Durbin joined the Indiana Methodist Conference, in 1835, his name was
                    misspelled ‘Hoosier’ in the minutes, and was so printed. The word ‘hoosier’ always had the sense of
                    roughness or uncouthness in its early use."
                At the time this statement was made, neither Mr. Goodwin nor I knew of the existence of the last four
                    lines of Finley's poem, in which this same term "hossier-bait" occurs, they being omitted in all the
                    ordianry forms of the poem. The derivation of this term is obvious, whether "bait" be taken in its
                    sense of a lure or its sense of food. It was simply something that "hoosiers" were fond of, and its
                    application was natural at a time when the ideal of happiness was "a country boy with a hunk of
                    gingerbread."
                After the word had been applied to 
                        Indiana
                    , and had entered on its double-sense stage, writers who were familiar with both uses
                    distinguished between them by making it a proper noun when 
                        Indiana
                     was referred to. An illustration of this is seen in the writings of J. S. Robb, author
                    of "The Swamp Doctor in the Southwest" and other humorous sketches, published in 1843. He refers to 
                        Indiana
                     as "the Hoosier State," but in a sketch of an eccentric 
                        St. Louis
                     character he writes thus:
                "One day, opposite the Planter's House, during a military parade, George was engaged in selling his
                    edition of the Advocate of Truth, when a tall hoosier, who had been gazing at him with astonishment
                    for some time, roared out in an immoderate fit of laughter.
                "What do you see so funny in me to laugh at?" inquired George.
                "Why, boss," said the hoosier, "I wur jest a thinkin' ef I'd seed you out in the woods, with all that
                    har on, they would a been the d—dest runnin' done by this ‘coon ever seen in them diggins—you're
                    ekill to the elephant! and a leetle the haryest small man I've seen scart up lately."
                
                Unfortunately, however, not many writers were familiar with the double use of the word, and the
                    distinction has gradually died out, while persistent assertions that the word was coined to
                    designate 
                        Indiana
                     people have loaded on them all the odium for the significance that the word has
                    anywhere.
                The real problem of the derivation of the word "hoosier" is not a question of the origin of a word
                    formed to designate the State of 
                        Indiana
                     and its people, but of the origin of the slang term widely in use in the South,
                    signifying an uncouth rustic. There seems never to have been any attempt at a rational philological
                    derivation, unless we may so account Mr. Charles G. Leland's remarks in Barriere and Leland's
                    "Dictionary of Slang, Jargon and Cant," which are as follows: "Hoosier (American). A nickname given
                    to natives of Indiana. Bartlett cites from the Providence Journal a story which has the appearance
                    of being an after-manufacture to suit the name, deriving "hoosier from ‘husher—from their primary
                    capacity to still their opponents." He also asserts that the Kentuckians maintained that the
                    nickname expresses the exclamation of an Indianian when he knocks at a door and exclaims ‘Who's
                    yere?' However, the word originally was not hoosier at all, but hoosieroon, or hoosheroon, hoosier
                    being an abreviation of this. I can remember that in 1834, having read of hoosiers, and spoken of
                    them, a boy from the West corrected me, and said that the word was properly hoosieroon. This would
                    indicate a Spanish origin."
                The source of Mr. Leland's error is plain. "Hoosieroon" was undoubtedly coined by Mr. Finley to
                    designate a Hoosier child, and what the boy probably told Mr. Leland was that the name to apply
                    properly to him would be Hoosieroon. But that alone would not dispose wholly of the Spanish
                    suggestion, for "oon" or "on" is not only a Spanish ending, but is a Spanish diminutive indicating
                    blood relation. In reality, however, Mr. Finley did not understand Spanish, and the ending was
                    probably suggested to him by a quadroon and octoroon, which, of course, were in general use. There
                    is no Spanish word that would give any suggestion of "hoosier." 
                    The only other language of continental Europe that could be looked to for its origin would be
                    French, but there is no French word approaching it except, perhaps, "huche," which means a kneading
                    trough, and there is no probability of derivation from that.∗
                
                In fact, "hoosier" carries Anglo-Saxon credentials. It is Anglo-Saxon in form and Anglo-Saxon in
                    ring. If it came from any foreign language, it has been thoroughly anglicized. And in considering
                    its derivation it is to be remembered that the Southerners have always had a remarkable faculty for
                    creating new words and modifying old ones. Anyone who has noted the advent of "snollygoster" in the
                    present generation, or has read Longstreet's elucidation of "fescue," "abisselfa," and "anpersant" (
                        Georgia
                     Scenes, page 73), will readily concede that. And in this connection it is to be
                    observed that the word "yahoo" has long been in use in Southern slang, in almost exactly the same
                    sense as "hoosier," and the latter word may possibly have developed from its last syllable. We have
                    a very comomn slang word in the North—"yap"— with the same signification, which may have come from
                    the same source, though more probably from the provincial English "yap," to yelp or bark. "Yahoo" is
                    commonly said to have been coined by Swift, but there is a possibility that it was in slang use in
                    his day.
                It is very probable that the chief cause of the absence of conjectures of the derivation of "Hoosier"
                    from an English stem was the lack in our dictionaries of any word from which it could be supposed to
                    come, and it is a singular fact that in our latest dictionaries—the Standard and the Century—there
                    appears the word "hoose," which has been in use for centuries in 
                        England
                    . It is used now to denote a disease common to calves, similar to the gapes in chickens,
                        
                        ∗ Mr. Dunn is sometimes over-positive in his statements. Mrs. Emma Carleton, of 
                                New Albany
                            , calls our attention to the old French word huissier, as used
                            by Sir Walter Scott in "The Abbott" (Chapter 18). The "hussier" was an usher; hence Mrs.
                            Carleton suggests, with some plausibility, that the word might have attached to the first
                            French occupants of 
                                Indiana
                            , as the ushers of civilization, or that the use of it by them "might have been
                            the lingual forefather of Hoosier."—The Editor.
                        
                    
                     caused by the lodgment of worms in the throat. The symptoms of
                    this disease include staring eyes, rough coat with hair turned backward, and hoarse wheezing. So
                    forlorn an aspect might readily suggest giving the name "hooser" or hoosier" to an uncouth,
                    rough-looking person. In this country, for some reason, this disease has been known only by the name
                    of the worm that causes it—"strongylus micrurus"— it sounds very much like "strangle us marcus" as
                    the veterinarians pronounce it— but in 
                        England
                     "hoose" is the common name. This word is from a very strong old stem. Halliwell, in his
                    "Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial words," gives "hooze" and "hoors," and states that "hoos"
                    occurs in the "Cornwall Glossary," the latter being used also in Devonshire. Palmer, in his
                    "Folk-Etymology," says that "hoarst—a Linconshire word for a cold on the chest, as if that which
                    makes one hoarse," is a corruption of the old English "host," a cough, Danish "hoste," Dutch
                    "hoeste," Anglo-Saxon "hweost," a wheeziness; and refers to Old English "hoose," to cough, and 
                        Cleveland
                     "hooze," to wheeze. Descriptions of the effect of hoose on the appearance of animals
                    will be found in Armatage's "Cattle Doctor," and in the "Transactions of the Highland Society of 
                        Scotland
                    ," fourth series, Vol. 10, at page 206.
                There is also a possibility of a geographical origin for the word, for there is a coast parish of 
                        Cheshire
                    , 
                        England
                    , about seven miles west of 
                        Liverpool
                    , named Hoose. The name probably refers to the cliffs in the vicinity, for "hoo," which
                    occurs both in composition and independently in old English names of places, is a Saxon word
                    signifying high. However, this is an obscure parish, and no especial peculiarity of the people is
                    known that would probably give rise to a distinctive name for them.
                There is one other possibility that is worthy of mention—that the word may have come to us through 
                        England
                     from the Hindoo. In 
                        India
                     there is in general use a word commonly written "huzur," which is a respectful form of
                    address to persons of rank or superiority. In "The Potter's Thumb," Mrs. Steel writes it "hoozur."
                    Akin to it is "housha," the title  of a village authority in
                    Bengal. It may seem impossible that "hoosier" could come from so far a source, and yet it is almost
                    certain that our slang word "fakir," and its derivative verb "fake," came from the Hindoo through 
                        England
                    , whither for many years people of all classes have been returning from Indian service.
                As a matter of fact words pass from one language to another in slang very readily. For example,
                    throughout 
                        England
                     and America a kidnapper is said in thieves' slang to be "on the kinchin lay," and it
                    can scarcely be questioned that this word is direct from the German "kindchen." The change of
                    meaning from "huzur" to "hoosier" would be explicable by the outlandish dress and looks of the
                    Indian grandees from a native English standpoint, and one might naturally say of an uncouth person,
                    "He looks like a huzur."
                It is not my purpose to urge that any one of these suggested possibilities of derivation is
                    preferable to the others, or to assert that there may not be other and more rational ones. It is
                    sufficient to have pointed out that there are abundant sources from which the word may have been
                    derived. The essential poin is that Indiana and her people had nothing whatever to do with its
                    origin or its signification. It was applied to us in raillery, and our only connection with it is
                    that we have meekly borne it for some three score years and ten, and have made it widely recognized
                    as a badge of honor, rather than a term of reproach.
                J. P. DUNN.
            
            
                The Primitive Hoosier
                THE following enthusiastic bit of writing, copied into the Journal from the New Orleans Picayune more
                    than sixty years ago, gives a picture of the Hoosier of that period who came down the river with his
                    flatboat load of produce. Says the Picayune writer:
                "There is a primitive and pristine simplicity of character and independence of mind about a Hoosier
                    that pleases us much. His step is as untrammeled by the artifice of fashion  and as free from the constraint of foppery as the mighty rivers of the
                    West are from obstruction in their impetus course to the ocean, or as the path of the buffalo herd
                    over the wild prairie. Born on the fructuous soil of freedom, and unchecked in his growth by avarice
                    and dissimulaion, he rises to manhood with a mind unwarpt and a spirit unbent like the trees of the
                    forest around him. He loves liberty—loves it in his heart's core—he would fight—he would die for it.
                    ∗ ∗ ∗ He cries from his soul, ‘Long live liberty!’ because the instinct of his free and
                    unsophistocated nature tells him that it is the inalienable birthright and heritage of man, and he
                    thinks that to live without it is impossible as to exist without the free air that wantons round his
                    Western home. He may be ignorant of the use of the eyeglass, but is his aim with his rifle less
                    deadly? He may not be able to discuss the merits of the last novel, but thinkest thou that he is
                    ignorant of the cardinal principal of liberty? In a word, he may not be a thing with his face hid in
                    a stock, long hair and a shirt collar, but might not more confidence be placed in his brawny arm in
                    time of war than in a whole regiment of such men of doubtful gender?
                "We do love to see a Hoosier roll along the levee with the proceeds of the plunder of his flatboat in
                    his pocket. It is the wages of industry, and no lordly ecclesiastic or titled layman dares claim a
                    cent of it. See with what pity he regards those who are confined to the unchangeable monotony of a
                    city life, and observe how he despises uniformity of dress. He has just donned a new blue dress coat
                    with silk linings and flowered gilt buttons. His new pants look rather short for the present
                    fashion, but this is easily accounted for—they were of stocking fit or French cut at the instep, and
                    thinking they pressed rather close he has curtailed them of some six inches of their fair
                    proportion. ∗ ∗ ∗ He glories in still sporting the same unpolished peg boots, and the woolen,
                    round-topped, wide-leafed hat in which he set out from home. The Hoosier says, or seems to say—
                "'A life in the woods for me,' and his happy and independent life attests the wisdom of his
                choice."
            
            
            
                Local Historical Societies
                IN the introductory article to the first number of this magazine we expressed the hope that we might
                    do something toward promoting the work of local historical societies. We cannot say at this writing
                    that we are particularly encouraged.
                So far as we have been able to learn local societies have, at one time or another, been organized in
                    the following counties: St. Joseph, Henry, Randolph, Delaware, Hamilton, Carroll, Wayne, Martin,
                    Putnam, Parke and Clark. Our attempts to gather information concerning the origin, history and
                    accomplishment of these societies resulted with most of them, in nothing. Some of them, we know,
                    have ceased to be. The 
                        Putnam County
                     organization, for instance, has been out of existence some ten years, but its archives
                    are still preserved by one of the original members, and from them we secured the article on
                    "Revolutionary Soldiers" published in this number. In similar collections esewhere there are
                    doubtless many valuable papers which should not be wholly lost, and which would not be if those
                    having them in custody would but render a very small service. On another page we explain a plan of
                    the State Librarian to collect as exhaustive a bibliography as possible of Indiana material, both
                    published and unpublished. Upon application he will send copies of a printed form on which the
                    description and location of such material may be set forth for the benefit of any student along
                    certain lines who may be interested in it. If these papers of non-existent societies were handed
                    over to the keeping of the State Library it would much increase their chances of usefulness. But
                    even a knowledge of them in private possession is desirable.
                From societies now existing, which we tried to reach with letters of inquiry, there were but few
                    responses. The most circumstantial informaton received was from the 
                        Wayne County
                     organization, and for this reason, and because it would seem to be an excellent model
                    for those contemplating new organizations, we here deal fully with it.
                
                This society has rooms in the court house, where it has begun the collection of a library and
                    historical museum; and contributions, such as old letters, manuscripts, pictures, books, pamphlets,
                    relics, or anything that will illustrate the history and progress of the country, are solicited. It
                    holds four meetings a year, at various places in the county, and to these the general public is
                    invited. The program of 1904, which is before us, gives an idea of the character and scope of these
                    meetings, and we here copy it in substance.
                February 27 (in the rooms of the society in the Court House, 
                        Richmond
                    ). 1—The Early Railroads of 
                        Richmond
                    , by Mr. James Van Dusen. 2—Original Poem, by Rev. Luke Woodard. 3—Report of the 
                        New Orleans
                     meeting of the American Historical Association, by Mr. Jesse S. Reeves. 4—Report of a
                    visit to the 
                        Henry County
                     Society, by Mrs. Helen V. Austin.
                May 21 (High School, 
                        Cambridge City
                    ). 1—The Whisky Frauds of 1876, by Dr. Joseph W. Jay. 2—History of Dairying in 
                        Wayne County
                    , by Mr. W. S. Commons.
                August 27 (Meeting House, 
                        Fountain City
                    . All day meeting, devoted to the Pioneer Industries of the county). 1—Papers on Field
                    Industries. 2—Papers on Household Industries. 3—Papers on Industrial Amusements.
                November 10 (Rooms of the Society). 1—Prominent Educators of 
                        Wayne County
                    , by Prof. Lee Ault. 2—The 
                        Wayne County
                     Argonants of ‘49 and ‘50, by Prof. $$rus W. Hodgin.
                Other noteworthy papers, given in 1903 were on the Old National Road; Historic Houses of 
                        Centerville
                    ; Early Mills of 
                        Wayne County
                     and the Geological History of 
                        Wayne County
                    . These papers, as we understand, are all carefully preserved by the curator of the
                    society in its room, and a number of them, doubtless, contain interesting historical data not to be
                    found elsewhere.
                Another feature of the Society's work is the publishing once a year of a historical pamphlet
                    contributed to its archives. Two of these, thus far, have been issued, "The Naming and Nicknaming of
                    Indiana," by Prof. Cyrus W. Hodgin,  and "Institutional
                    Influence of the Germans in 
                        Richmond
                    ," by Fred J. Bartel. The membership dues are fifty cents a year.
                The Constitution of this society may be secured by sending to Prof. Cyrus W. Hodgins, 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    
                Since writing the above we have received reports from the Henry and 
                        Monroe County
                     societies, through the kindness of Mr. Benjamin S. Parker, of 
                        New Castle
                    , and Prof. J. A. Woodburn, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , whose letters we add. The first of these organizations is among the oldest, and the
                    latter the newest, we believe, among our local societies.
                HENRY COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                The 
                                        Henry County
                                     Historical Society held its 19th annual meeting at its building in 
                                        Newcastle
                                     on Saturday, April 29th, 1905. As the above statement indicates, this
                                    society was organized and began active work in 1887. Its constitution provides for
                                    two meetings with papers, addresses, discussions, music, etc., in each year. As with
                                    other similar societies, it has been indebted, during much of its career, to the
                                    efforts of a few persons for its continuous existence and progress.
                                The hope of its founders, and those who have since carried forward its work, has been
                                    to collect and preserve in an easily accessible shape, the history of every
                                    township, town, village, and country neighborhood, from the first setlement forward.
                                    The society also seeks to illustrate the life of the country and its people, through
                                    the various changes and steps of progress, by a collection of earlier and later
                                    industrial implements, household and kitchen utensils, natural history specimens,
                                    and whatever may serve to give to the present and future generations, correct ideas
                                    as to the method by and through which the county has been improved and the people
                                    have progressed.
                                Taking advantage of the law passed by the State Legislature in 1901, the society
                                    applied to the Board of County Commissioners and County Council for an appropriation
                                    to purchase or build a home for the society and its collection.  An appropriation of $5,000 was promptly made. Soon
                                    after an unexpected event occurred. In order to close up and settle the estate of
                                    the late General William Grose, the administrator offered at a very low figure the
                                    splendid residence property of the General. Upon the appearance of the advertisement
                                    the late W. H. Adams began a movement to secure the home, including one acre of
                                    ground for the use of the society. The Commissioners were called together, then the
                                    County Council met in special session, and in about a fortnight, the county of Henry
                                    became the owner of the property for the use of its Historical Society. The fine
                                    mansion not only furnishes large space for the society's collection and library
                                    (which now contains about 800 volumes), but also provides a residence for the
                                    custodian. While a full historical collection is sought for, the managers are taking
                                    great care not to cumber the space with mere "old junk." A place must have some
                                    other merit than age to make it worth preserving. It must be part of an illustrative
                                    chain that elucidates some branch or portion of the country's life, past or present,
                                    to be acceptable. Small appropriations have been made, year after year, to this
                                    society, but up to the present a considerable per cent, of the appropriations thus
                                    made have gone back to the county treasury unused, so that the cost of maintenance
                                    has, thus far, been but trifling to the county. The society pays its own running
                                    expenses except the cost of light, water and fuel, and the maintaining of buildings
                                    and grounds.
                                The 19th annual meeting was a very enjoyable one and very well attended. Its
                                    principal features consisted of a fine address upon the preservation of local
                                    history by the retiring President, Mr. John Thornburgh; an exceedingly interesting
                                    letter from Mrs. S. A. Pleas, (now of 
                                        Florida
                                    ) widow of the naturalist, Elwood Pleas, one of the promoters of the
                                    society; a splendid address delivered by Judge L. C. Abbott, of 
                                        Richmond
                                    , representing the 
                                        Wayne County
                                     Historical Society, upon "Life in 
                                        Washington
                                     Fifty Years Ago;" a local paper, entitled a "History of Clear Spring,"
                                    a well-known neighborhood of the county, by Miss Orabell Shaffer, and a unique
                                    series of caricatures and illustrations of the early life,  dress and manners of the people of the county by Clark
                                    Gordon, the 
                                        Spiceland
                                     artist.
                                A musical program furnished by local talent proved a popular feature. The fine dinner
                                    served by the ladies of 
                                        Newcastle
                                     and 
                                        Spiceland
                                    , free to all, was one of the features of the meeting which commanded
                                    undoubted popular approval.
                                The officers chosen for the ensuing year are: President, Clark Gordon, of 
                                        Spiceland
                                    ; Vice-President, Nathan T. Nicholson, of 
                                        Newcastle
                                    ; Secretary, Miss Linnie Jordon, of 
                                        Newcastle
                                    ; Treasurer, Benjamin F. Koons, of Mooreland; Chairman Executive
                                    Committee, John Thornburgh, of 
                                        Newcastle
                                    ; Trustees, Eugene H. Bundy, 
                                        Newcastle
                                    ; Henry Charles, 
                                        Spiceland
                                    ; Robert M. Chambers, 
                                        Newcastle
                                    .
                                BENJ. S. PARKER.
                                
                                    
                                        Newcastle
                                    , Ind., April 30, 1905.
                            
                        
                    
                
                MONROE COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                On April 6, 1905, after previous conferences, a 
                                        Monroe County
                                     Historical Society was formed in the lecture room of the Christian
                                    Church of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . Mr. Amzi Atwater, formerly professor of Latin in the University, was
                                    elected President, Mr. W. B. Seward, an old and well-known citizen of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , was made Vice-President, Mr. J. A. Wood-burn was appointed Secretary
                                    and Mr. Dudley Smith Treasurer. Prof. S. B. Harding, of the University, Miss Minnie
                                    Ellis, teacher of history in the 
                                        Bloomington
                                     High School, and Miss Margaret McCalla were made advisory members. The
                                    Constitution and By-Laws of the 
                                        Wayne County
                                     Society were adopted for the use of the new society. The 
                                        Monroe County
                                     Society expect to meet once a month and have papers from various
                                    members. At this first meeting of the Society Professor Atwater read a paper on "The
                                    University of Forty Years Ago." At the May meeting Judge H. C. Duncan, of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , will read a paper on Hon. James Hughes, one of the leading public men
                                    of 
                                        Monroe County
                                     forty years ago. Mr. Seward will prepare a paper on "Old Water Mills of 
                                        Monroe County
                                    ," and other papers of local interest are under way.  The outlook for the society is good and it is hoped
                                    that there will be found a growing interest in its work.
                                J. A. WOODBURN, Secretary.
                                
                                    
                                        Bloomington
                                    
                                    
                                        Ind.
                                    , May 6, 1905.
                            
                        
                    
                
                In addition to the above we have received a copy of the Constitution of the 
                        Wabash County
                     Historical Society. This society was organized in 1902. As we understand, it has at
                    present no definite plan of active work, but in its room in the Court House it is gradually
                    accumulating appropriate material.
                No doubt there are other local societies of which we have not been able to learn, and fuller
                    information from any or all of these is solicited.
            
            
                An Indiana Bibliography
                AS THE result of a paper read before the Indiana Library Association at its last meeting by W. E.
                    Henry, State Librarian, a movement has begun which has for its purpose the collecting of material
                    for a bibliography of 
                        Indiana
                    . Blank cards requesting information concerning bibliographical matter of interest to
                    the State has been sent to editors, librarians and others interested in this matter over the State,
                    and it is the intention of the authorities of the State Library to publish this information as it is
                    collected.
                Mr. Henry was chosen by the association to act as Chairman of a committee whose duty it was to
                    organize and proceed in the work outlined. This committee consists of W. M. Hepburn, librarian at
                    Purdue University; Arthur Dransfield, of 
                        New Harmony
                    ; J. L. Smith, of Winchester; Miss Anna Nicholas, of this city; Col. R. S. Robertson,
                    ex-Lieutenant-Governor; Arthur Cunningham, librarian at the State Normal; Miss Merica Hoagland,
                    organizer for the public library commission; Miss Minnetta T. Taylor, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Miss Eva N. Fitzgerald, librarian of the 
                        Kokomo
                     public library; George S. Cottman, of 
                        Irvington
                    , and Miss Jennie Elrod, reference librarian of the State Library.
                
                The card blanks that are being sent over the State have a place for the enumeration of the writings
                    of the individual of any city, county or town; church publications are asked for, as are the
                    publications of associations and societies. Special attention is given to references to local
                    history, and the enumeration of the newspapers of any community, together with the date of
                    establishment, and the location of the most complete files. Directories or gazeteers of each town or
                    county are also asked for, and the list closes with a request for a list of the official reports of
                    towns or counties or any officer of either.
                Mr. Henry points out that the success of the attempted bibliography depends upon the care with which
                    these card blanks are filled out by those to whom they are sent. If the matter is attended to
                    carefully the result as published by the State Library will be invaluable to students of local history.—
                        INDIANAPOLIS
                     NEWS.
                To this we append the following scheme, outlined by Mr. Henry, and sent out by him as a guide to
                    those assisting him in the work:
                OUTLINE FOR BIBLIOGRAPHY OF 
                        INDIANA
                    .
                This should include any item written concerning Indiana or its people, and any item on any subject if
                    written while the writer recognized Indiana as his or her place of residence.
                Unit for collecting information: Town, County and State.
                
                    
                        Writings of individuals, viz: 
                                Books.
                                Pamphlets. (If title is not descriptive, state subject in note.)
                                Articles or series of articles in newspapers or magazines.
                            
                        
                        NOTE.—Give name of author in full with date of birth and place of
                            residence if living; date of death if not living. Concerning each of these items give: Title
                            in full, publisher, date and place of publication, and number of pages. Illustrations.
                    
                    
                        Church publications.
                        NOTE.—Minutes of yearly meetings, Synods, Conferences, Associations, etc.
                            Any manuscript record of births, marriages and deaths; if such record exists, where it may
                            be found.
                    
                    
                        Educational institutions. 
                                Catalogues, year books, bulletins.
                                Reports of original investigations.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Publications of associations and societies. 
                                County fairs.
                                Historical or other societies.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Local history. 
                                County or town history.
                                Social organizations, secret societies, etc.
                                Family history and genealogy.
                                Biographies.
                                Club papers containing local history or biography, either printed or manuscript.
                                Club programs and year books.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Newspapers. 
                                Name of paper. Editors. Politics. Subscription price.
                                When established.
                                If suspended, give date.
                                Give inclusive dates of the most complete file known to exist and where it may be
                                    found. Other important or accessible files.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Directories or gazeteer of town or county.
                    
                    
                        Official reports of town, county or any particular officer in either town or county. If
                            published regularly indicate date of first issue and frequency of publication. If not issued
                            regularly, give date of each issue. Where files are preserved. Include manuscript journals,
                            diaries, etc., if in public library or otherwise made available.
                    
                
            
            
                The Robert Dale Owen Memorial
                THE Women's clubs of Indiana have individually, from time to time, turned their attention to the
                    study of the State and its notable citizens, and this growing interest has now taken the form of a
                    definite movement expressive of a more substantial appreciation. It is the attempt to raise a fund
                    of $2,000 or $2,500 for a bust of Robert Dale Owen, to be placed in the State Capitol. This fund is
                    to be contributed exclusively by the women of the State "as a lasting memorial to the man who for
                    many years persistently labored to secure just laws concerning the educational and property rights
                    of women." Last year a circular was issued setting forth in brief the claim of Owen to the proposed
                    honor; since then the promoters have been vigorously carrying on a "campaign of education," and the
                    public generally is being enlightened as  never before
                    concerning the services of one of the most distinguished men Indiana has produced. Entertainments of
                    various kinds by the women's organizations for the benefit of the fund have been urged. Mr. George
                    B. Lockwood, author of "The 
                        New Harmony
                     Communities," and an authority on Owen, lectured in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the benefit of the fund, besides contributing fifty autograph copies of his book;
                    the Indiana State Federation of Women's Clubs and the Indiana Union of Literary Clubs, as
                    organizations, endorse the movement, and the desired sum bids fair to materialize. The chief movers
                    representing the Memorial Association are: Chairman, Mrs. Julia S. Conklin, 
                        Westfield
                    ; Secretary, Miss Esther Griffin White, 
                        Richmond
                    ; Treasurer, Mrs. S. E. Perkins, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Art Committee, Mrs. D. O. Coate, 
                        Shelbyville
                    ; Mrs. Rose Budd Stewart, 
                        Muncie
                    ; Miss Esther Griffin White, 
                        Richmond
                    . Finance Committee, Mrs. S. E. Perkins, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. J. T. McNary, 
                        Logansport
                    ; Mrs. Eva O'Hair, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Mrs. J. N. Studebaker, 
                        South Bend
                    ; Mrs. Mary D. Maxedon, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; Miss Minnetta T. Taylor, 
                        Greencastle
                    .
                Robert Dale Owen, son of Robert Owen, who founded the famous 
                        New Harmony
                     Community, was the most noteworthy of a family of notable brothers. Legislator,
                    Congressman, reformer and public-spirited citizen, he was intimately identified with the life and
                    progress of Indiana and of the nation as well. In Congress he was a promoter of various important
                    measures and was recognized as a man of capacity and force. As a Legislator and a member of the
                    Constitutional Convention of 1850 he left a deep and lasting impress. His most important service,
                    perhaps, was in behalf of the legal rights of women, whose status, when he championed their cause,
                    was incredibly inferior and unjust. The serfdom and helplessness of the wife of sixty or seventy
                    years ago is not remembered or known now by the thousands of to-day, who, whatever restrictions
                    still remain, are, by comparison, immeasurably advanced. For that advancement Robert Dale Owen, more
                    than any other man, deserves recognition, and it seems altogether  fitting that the women who are concerning themselves with the broader field of thought should
                    accord the recognition and acknowledge their debt in the manner proposed.
            
            
                Gleaned from the Pioneers
                A Humble Life Story
                A RECENT item in the newspapers announcing the critical, probably fatal illness of Mrs. Elizabeth
                    McClay, centenarian, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , brings to the mind of the writer certain pleasing recollections of a very obscure and
                    humble, but, as he thinks, a quite remarkable person. Some years ago Mrs. McClay made her home with
                    a relative of the third generation on a farm within sight of the roofs of 
                        Irvington
                    , and here the Rambler (as we, will designate ourself), found her, was interested to the
                    point of fascination, and returned more than once, to sit a spare hour with her in her homely but
                    tidy room overlooking the country spaces; to hear her low, placid talk and to solve, if maybe, the
                    secret of her attraction.
                Mrs. McClay seemed wholly un-at-home amid the people and scenes of to-day, as though her lapping over
                    into an alien period was a chronological misfit. The Rambler apprehended this from many things half
                    said and things not said at all. If his guessing was true, earth had seemed denuded and unnatural to
                    her ever since the great forests had melted away, and the inhabitants thereof had undergone strange
                    transformations that separated them from her. So her function now was to live fondly in the past and
                    most expectantly in the future, and to wait with the mute patience of nature while the slow seasons
                    ran their rounds. Meanwhile, the feeble hands, that had long since earned rest, rarely knew an idle
                    moment. Service was as much a part of her being as was breathing. The newspaper item referred to
                    stated that she had that year made twenty-five quilts that others might be warm. Doubtless this was
                    so.
                
                Mrs. McClay wore, indoor and out, an old-fashioned sunbonnet with paste-board stays, and under this a
                    little linen cap. From the depths of that bonnet, framed by the cap's white frill looked out a
                    wrinkled face so calm and peaceful that one wondered if its owner ever could have known bitterness
                    and sorrow. To show so little sign of weariness and wreckage at the end of a long century of
                    existence surely must have argued a pleasant journey. As to this, let her simple little story
                    testify. It is here given as nearly ver batim as the Rambler could reproduce it at the time. Let it
                    be added that the quaint pioneer dialect with its barbarisms, which is here modified somewhat, did
                    not, somehow, seem uncouth in her, nor discrepant with her gentle voice and personality.
                "If my daddy and mammy came traveling past here today,' I'd drop everything, old as I am, and follow
                    them," avowed the aged reminiscent. "Oh, how I did love my daddy and mammy!—who could be nearer to
                    me than they was? where they went I went; their God was my God. I remember plain as yesterday when
                    my daddy went off to fight the British and Injuns in 1814. The morning he went there was his shot
                    pouch and powder horn and gun all ready for him, and he said to us: ‘Now, when I go I don't want any
                    of you to say a word to me.’ So when he was all ready and had put on his pouch and horn he kissed us
                    children and then went to mammy, who was sitting by the fireside looking in the coals, and laid his
                    hand on her shoulder and kissed her, but never said a word, and she never said a word. After that he
                    took up his gun and went straight out, but my little baby brother crawled on the floor after him,
                    crying for daddy to take him up, and I looked out of the window after him, and called out ‘good bye,
                    daddy!' but he never looked back once. Six months later he came back again, and oh! but we was a
                    joyful lot. That was way down in 
                        Tennessee
                    .
                "When I was a woman grown and married with children of my own, my man and daddy took a notion they'd
                    try Injianny. So we all came, with just one wagon to carry our things and the children, while the
                    rest of us walked, me toting  my baby. We didn't seem to do well
                    here, and by'n by daddy wanted to go back, and we went with him. Then we seemed to do worse than
                    ever there, and daddy said he'd try Injianny again, and we come. Injianny didn't ‘pear to be much
                    better than 
                        Tennessee
                    , after all, and back we tromped. Then after while it seem like there was no chance at
                    all in 
                        Tennessee
                    , and daddy took a notion again. I was getting despret tired of the travel, but daddy
                    coaxed me and mammy coaxed me, and this time they promisel they would stay, and seeing they were
                    bent on it, I agreed. So five times I walked back and forth between 
                        Tennessee
                     and Injianny, kase I would have followed my daddy and mammy to the ends of the earth.
                "My man sickened in Injeanny and took to his last bed, and kase we were so pore it looked like I
                    would have a despret time raising the children. In them days, when pore folks couldn't care for
                    their own flesh and blood they would bind ‘em out to strangers till the children were of age. My man
                    had been a bound boy, and he called me to his bedside, and, said he, ‘promise me that no child of
                    mine shall ever be bound out;’ and I said, ‘so long as I can lift a hand to work for them they shall
                    not be bound out; and daddy and mammy promised, and that seemed to take a great load off his mind.
                "After he was gone I kept my promise to him. I worked out by day, indoor and out; I spun and I wove.
                    I pulled flax and piled brush; all kind of work that's done by woman or man I done, and I kept my
                    children together. Two of the little ones died, but the rest of ‘em and daddy and mammy I kept
                    together. Then my daddy, that I loved so, went, and it was harder for me, but still I worked and
                    kept them together till all were old enough to take care of theirselves. Next my Janey, who was
                    married, was smitten by the hand of the Lord, and on her death bed she mourned and grieved bekase of
                    her babies. ‘Oh, my precious little ones! what will become of them?’ she cried out once, when the
                    end was drawing nigh. ‘Never mind, darling, said I, ‘mammy will take care of your little ones—she
                    has took care of you and she will take care of them, and that give her comfort before she passed  away. And me and my old mammy took charge of the little ones,
                    but it wan't long before the good Lord gathered them one by one, and oh! I rejoiced, bekase then I
                    knowed my darling Janey had them again. Then my mammy died, and so all them that was nearest to me
                    left me, and as they went I was glad, kase I knowed their troubles were all over, and I had only to
                    wait. If I could bring them all back to me with a word I wouldn't speak it, kase they're happier
                    where they are and I can go to them."
                This was old Mrs. McClay's brief and simple story, very simply told—a story too humble, doubtless, to
                    find many listeners. To the Rambler it seemed far worthier of interest than many a one that unravels
                    itself more imposingly, for in the heroism and endurance, the patience and calm, rock-like faith of
                    it, and in the strength of human ties revealed as she told it, was something elemented and
                    essentially great.
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
