
   ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 89, Issue 1, pages 1-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:89+issue:1+year:1993&browseMode=source
    
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
    
      
      
        Oedipus at 
            Crawfordsville
          :
        Early Productions of Greek Tragedies in Indiana
        James Fisher⋆
        
        

          For three decades the presentation of classical plays has been a great factor in the effort to
                        show the value of the "humanities" in our educational scheme. And we are
                        compelled to prove this in this day and generation. … I would urge especially the
                        presentation of Greek plays: their appeal is so universal that they bridge the chasm of the
                        centuries and arouse interest, not merely as spectacles of past grandeur, but as living works of
                        art, which move to sympathy and to tears as strongly as the work of the latest dramatist of the
                        twentieth century.1
          
          Daniel Dickey Hains
        
        Shortly after the beginning of the twentieth century, widespread interest in the classical dramas of
                    ancient 
            Greece
           emerged in college and universities throughout the 
            United States
          . In Indiana, on a spot near what is now the front patio of Martindale Hall at Wabash
                    College in 
            Crawfordsville

          , production of a series of the plays of Sophocles and Euripides commenced with an
                    outdoor performance of Sophocles' Oedipus Tyrannus at 4:00 p. m. on June
                    16, 1908. Under the direction of Daniel Dickey Hains (1873–1937), Wabash College class of
                    1895 and head of its Department of Greek, this extraordinary series of productions were probably the
                    first stagings of classical dramas in the twentieth century in the state of Indiana, and among the
                    earliest on American campuses. Hains's pioneering productions inspired an appreciation for
                    the classics, along with an interest in producing them, throughout Indiana colleges, 
            
              ⋆ James Fisher is associate professor of theater, Wabash
                            College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana. He was recently named Six-Month Fellow (1992–1993) at The
                            New-berry Library (
                Chicago
              ) and Research Fellow (1992–1993) at the Theatre Museum (
                London
              ) by The Society for Theatre Research. His most recent publication is The Theatre of Yesterday and Tomorrow: Commedia dell'arte on the
                                Modern Stage (1992). Fisher wishes to acknowledge the assistance of Johanna
                            Herring, Wabash College archivist, for her assistance in researching the article and Douglas
                            P Calisch, associate professor of art, Wabash College, for making photographic prints of the
                            illustrations accompanying the article.
            
              1 Daniel Dickey Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays:
                            Part I," Classical Journal, IX (February, 1914),
                            189–90.
            INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXIX (March, 1993). © 1993, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
          
           high schools, and dramatic clubs during the early twentieth
                    century.
        In English-speaking professional theaters this enthusiastic revival of the classics aided modernist
                    theatrical artists as they sought alternatives to the overwhelming predominance of
                    "kitchen-sink" realism on turn-of-the-century stages. Celebrated English
                    actor/director Harley 
            Granville
          -Barker (1877–1946) began a series of productions of the plays of Euripides,
                    in translations by Gilbert 
            Murray
           (1866–19571, with a staging of Hippolytus at the Lyric
                    Theatre in 
            London
           in 1903. His elaborate productions of the classics, presented with particular attention
                    to the highly symbolic and ritualized performance traditions of ancient drama, were admired in 
            England

           and, later, in presentations on several American college campuses where they ignited
                    enthusiasm for the plays.2
        
        Interest in the study of classical drama had always been at the center of classical studies on
                    college and university campuses throughout the 
            United States

          , but few actual productions of ancient Greek plays occurred in the nineteenth century.
                        Oedipus Tyrannus, produced at Sanders Theatre at 
            Harvard

           University on May 17, 1881, is generally considered to be the first classical play
                    produced on an American campus.3 That same year Daniel Frohman's
                    production of the same play on the 
            New York
           stage was the first known professional presentation of a classical play in America.4 As early as 1906 productions of Greek dramas were presented outdoors in the 
            Harvard
           Stadium,5 and, beginning in 1910 actress Margaret Anglin
                    (1876–1958) produced a season of classical dramas during the summer months in the
                    University of California at 
            Berkeley
          's impressive Greek Theatre, completed and opened in 1903 with funds supplied
                    by William 
            Randolph
           Hearst.6
        
        
          
            2 Harley 
              Granville
            -Barker presented Iphigenia Among the Taurians at the Yale Bowl on
                        May 15, 1915. It was also performed at 
              Harvard
             Stadium (May 18, 1915), the Piping Rock Country Club (May 25, 1915), the College of
                        the City of 
              New York
             (May 31 and June 5, 1915), the University of 
              Pennsylvania
             (June 8, 1915), and 
              Princeton
             University (June 11, 1915). 
              Granville
            -Barker also staged The Trojan Women at 
              Harvard
             Stadium on May 19, 1915. It was also performed at the College of the City of 
              New York
             (May 29 and June 2, 1915), the University of 
              Pennsylvania
             (June 9, 1915), and 
              Princeton
             University (June 12, 1915). Dennis Kennedy, 
              
                Granville
               Barker and the Dream of Theatre (
              Cambridge, England
            , 1985).
          
            3 Among the spectators at 
              Harvard

             were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wads-worth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and
                        William Dean Howells. The earliest known production of an ancient comedy, Aristophanes'
                            Acharnians, was produced at the University of Pennsylvania in 1886. Hains
                        was also impressed with a 1903 University of Pennsylvania production of Iphigenia
                            Among the Taurians. Productions of classical dramas became prevalent in Europe during
                        this same era. Daniel Dickey Hains, "Greek Plays in America," Classical Journal, VI (October, 1910), 26–28.
          
            4
            Ibid., 27.
          
            5 Aeschylus' Agamemnon was presented that year.
                            Ibid.
          
            6 The Greek Theatre, which seats in excess of eight thousand, presented
                        Margaret Anglin's versions of Sophocles' Antigone and Electra, and Euripides' Medea and Iphigenia in Aulis. Anglin also produced some of Shakespeare's plays there.
                            Ibid., 30, 36.
        
        

        All of these energies were felt on the campuses of Indiana's colleges. Greek and Latin
                    professors monitored the revivals of Greek drama with fascination, but none took the next step that
                    would lead to an actual production until 1908. Despite the fact that the institution had been slow
                    to make room for the arts, Wabash College was perhaps the first Indiana school to attempt production
                    of the classics. Although some dramatic readings by college literary societies had been popular
                    after the Civil War, little drama was seen at Wabash until after the turn of the century. In fact,
                    the first reference to the theater at Wabash dates back to 1836, four years after the founding of
                    the college, when the faculty passed a resolution banning "Thespian
                        amusements."7 Resistance to theatrical activity slowly eroded
                    during the last decades of the century, paving the way for the productions that were the dream of
                    young Professor Hains. He had noticed that student energies were divided at this time as new
                    disciplines were introduced into the curriculum and a variety of extracurricular activities
                    burgeoned. Hains became concerned about waning interest in the study of Greek and the classics in
                    general, and he began to work aggressively to generate new interest in the study of the classics. He
                    determined that an effective way of inspiring interest on the campus, and in the greater Indiana
                    community, was to attempt to produce the finest of the Greek tragedies in a manner that closely
                    approximated the staging traditions employed by the ancient Greeks themselves. Hains was also
                    influenced by Anglin's productions, which he felt were "magnificently staged and
                    splendidly acted,"8 and the productions at 
            Harvard
           and the University of 
            California
          . In fact, surviving photographic evidence suggests that the reusable setting
                    constructed at Wabash for the plays was modeled on the University of 
            California
          's Greek Theatre as much as on the surviving archaeological evidence of the
                    actual ancient theaters. This setting appears to have been used for most of the productions Hains
                    mounted, with slight modifications made depending on the needs of a particular play.
        The "Greek Plays," as they became known at 
            Wabash

          , insinuated themselves as an annual event through Hains's remaining years at
                    the college. All of them were produced under Hains's supervision, and they included Oedipus Tyrannus (Sophocles) in 1908 
            
              7 James Insley Osborne and Theodore Gregory Gronert, Wabash College: The First Hundred Years (
                Crawfordsville
              , Ind., 1932), 74. Student John B. Powers was actually suspended from classes on
                            January 16, 1837, for violating the rule. It seems Powers was committed to perform in a
                            theatrical exhibition of the local "Thespian Society" in December, 1836,
                            before the rule was passed. Later, the faculty decided that the penalty was perhaps too
                            severe in light of the offender's previous obligation to perform and his ignorance
                            of the rule, so they were content to settle for a reading before the college of an admission
                            of violation of college law.
            
              8 Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays: Part
                            I," 196.
          
           and 1914, Antigone (Sophocles) in 1909, Alcestis (Euripides) in 1910, Iphigenia Among the Taurians
                    (Euripides) in 1911, Electra (Sophocles) in 1912, Medea
                    (Euripides) in 1913, and Hippolytus (Euripides) in 1915. The Wabash College
                    Archives contain many impressive photographs of the productions along with contemporary newspaper
                    accounts, letters, programs, and other materials that make it possible to reconstruct the
                        performances.9
        
        By any standards the "Greek Plays" featured elaborate settings, costumes, and
                    programs and were ably performed by the students of Wabash and some 
            Crawfordsville

           citizens. Although Hains had initially considered presenting the plays in the original
                    Greek, he finally opted for English translation: "I do not believe," he wrote,
                    "that the results would compensate for the additional labor involved, and I am sure that
                    the spectators would not be moved so deeply by the power of the tragedy, were they compelled to
                    follow the action by means of a libretto."10 In reflecting on the
                    productions, Hains stressed the difficulty of producing classical plays with amateurs. He faced the
                    added problem of an all-male student body at 
            Wabash

          , which meant that men would play women's roles as had been done in the ancient
                    productions although it was an unfamiliar convention to modern audiences. He felt this was
                    appropriate, however, and in the casting of the women's roles he noted, "in this
                    case it is not merely a question of dramatic ability but also of face and
                    figure—complexion makes no difference: the ‘make-up’ box will
                    remedy deficiencies along that line—but it is essential that the actor who plays a
                    feminine part shall have delicate features."11 At Wabash competition
                    for the roles intensified each year, and Hains noticed that students were taking classics courses,
                    in part as a way of preparing themselves for the productions.

        Hain's instinctive commonsense approach to preparing the plays would ultimately serve as a
                    model for many Indiana schools and groups who would borrow his costumes, props, and, most
                    importantly, his ideas. Rehearsals for each play began as much as four months before the actual
                    performances with some aspect of the play dealt with everyday during that period. Hains worked with
                    the leading actors first since they were burdened with the 
            
              9 Accounts of the performances of the "Greek Plays"
                            at Wabash College appear in various college publications, especially the Bachelor, the Wabash College Record, the Wabash
                                Bulletin, and the 
                
                  Wabash
                
              . Programs of the productions, including a pamphlet, "Why Study
                            Greek?" produced by the Department of Classics during the era of the play
                            performances, and photographs of productions of the plays, along with correspondence, notes,
                            research materials belonging to Hains, and a notebook containing information on statewide
                            and nationwide productions of classical plays are in the Wabash College Archives (Lilly
                            Library, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana).
            
              10 Hains, "Greek Plays in America," 31.
            
              11 Daniel Dickey Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays:
                            Part III," Classical Journal, IX (May, 1914), 344.
          
          
          
            PROGRAM
              FOR WABASH COLLEGE PRODUCTION
              OF
              
                ALCESTIS
              , 1910
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana.
          
          
          
            CHORUS
              OF WABASH COLLEGE PRODUCTION
              OF SOPHOCLES'
              ANTIGONE
              , 1909
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, Crawfordaville, Indiana.
          
          
          
            CAST
              OF WABASH COLLEGE PRODUCTION
              OF
              IPHIGENIA AMONG
                THE TAURIANS
              , 1911
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana.
          
           longest roles. Particular attention was paid to the work of the
                    chorus members, many recruited from the Glee Club, who faced the most difficult task of performing
                    in unison the complicated choral odes and having to project their voices over long distances
                    outdoors (weather permitting, Hains held rehearsals outdoors as often as possible). Music composed
                    for the 
            Harvard

           and University of California productions accompanied the choral passages with piano,
                    flute, clarinet, violin, cornet, and harp being used at various times as Hains experimented with the
                    most effective combination. He found that in these days before microphones the cornet was
                    "particularly valuable in carrying the air in the open; the piano can be heard but a short
                    distance if there is any breeze stirring, and there is need of a strong lead to keep the singers
                        together."12
        

        Although Hains had virtually no professional training as a theatrical director, he wisely endeavored
                    to keep the staging simple and austere, carefully plotting entrances, exits, and
                    "picturesque" stage compositions. He emphasized a close study of the text but felt
                    that "almost as much can be done by the hands, face, and body as by vocal
                        expression."13 To this end he worked with the actors on their
                    movements, beginning with the "use of the hands, not in set gestures, but to aid in the
                    interpretation of the part. ‘To talk with the hands’ is quite an art and it
                    can be mastered only after long practice, but it is very essential.’ The goal for Hains
                    was "to secure as accurate an interpretation as possible of each phrase, line, and
                    scene." Elaborately choreographed dances were often employed for the choral scenes in
                    classical productions of the era, but Hains made "no attempt to introduce dancing; there
                    are no girls at 
            Wabash

          ; we do not have a dancing master for the boys; and, besides, the choral music has taken
                    so well that it has not seemed necessary."14
        

        Hains was assisted in the mounting of these productions by his wife, Lulu Britton Hains
                    (1873–1945), who, with minimal assistance from faculty wives and local women and modest
                    financial support, designed and constructed the appropriate period costumes. For the costumes Hains
                    advocated the use of "unbleached muslin, which costs about as much as the cheesecloth used
                    in many places and drapes far better."15 Under the guidance of a
                    professional scenic artist, students constructed and painted the scenic elements, which were made of
                    "regular ‘flats’" fastened to a two-by-four framework. It
                    all cost "seventy or eighty dollars, including material, labor, and the bill of a
                    professional scene painter."16 Hains 
            
              12
              Ibid., 347.
            
              13
              Ibid., 345.
            
              14
              Ibid., 346.
            
              15
              Ibid., 347.
            
              16
              Ibid., 351.
          
          
          
            CAST
              OF
              IPHIGENIA AMONG
                THE TAURIANS
               REHEARSES
              IN
              THE WABASH COLLEGE ARBORETUM, 1911.
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana.
          
           vigorously supported the idea of giving the plays outdoors,
                    feeling that
        
          Such a setting has many possibilities. When Alcestis, dying of her own free will to save her
                        husband's life, comes slowly from the palace, her words: "O sun, O light of
                        day, O eddying clouds that fly across the vaulted sky!" are far more impressive than
                        they could be within the walls of a theatre; and Antigone's last farewell to the sun
                        and to her native land as she is led away to the vaulted tomb is peculiarly significant from the
                        contrast between the brilliant sunlight and the gloomy chamber in which she is soon to end her
                        life."
        
        Critical reaction to all of the productions was uniformly positive, especially for Oedipus Tyrannus, which was produced by popular demand a second time in 1914. Audiences
                    for the plays extended far beyond the Wabash campus and 
            Crawfordsville
           community; college professors and high school teachers with groups of their students
                    (for the 1908 Oedipus the 
            Crawfordsville
          
          Journal reported that faculty from Earlham and 
            Butler
           colleges were in attendance18); and members of statewide drama
                    clubs attended as evidenced by notes of congratulation to Hains and his cast in the Wabash College
                    Archives. Of the first production of Oedipus Tyrannus in 1908 the 
            Crawfordsville
          
          Journal reported that 
            The day was an ideal one for an outdoor performance. Promptly at 4 o'clock the
                            suppliants entered, clad in white robes, marching to the solemn strains of Greek music,
                            … The scenery, the costumes, the altars, everything was according to the ancient
                            Greek patterns. … As to the performers, where all did so well it seems difficult
                            to mention particulars. The achievement of Mr. S. E. Fleming, who committed perfectly and
                            recited with clearness and force nearly seven hundred lines of blank verse of Oedipus, was
                            noteworthy, both as a feat of memory and as an exhibition of dramatic power. … A
                            large crowd witnessed the performance and Prof. Hains reports over $300 resulted
                            from the sale of tickets, which amount will cover all expenses, with a very slight
                        balance.
          
        

        Of that first performance Hains himself later wrote of the emotional impact of the play's
                    final scene "when the audience sat in tense silence, every eye fixed on the stage, as the
                    blind king, weighed down by the burden of the terrible revelation that had just come to him, bade a
                    tender farewell to his two little daughters."20 Hains also recalled
                    that the young cast was excited by the audience's reaction, as demonstrated by the the
                    student playing Creon, who, upon exiting from the stage "danced up and down, and waved
                        
            
              17
              Ibid.
            
              18 "Greek Play ‘Oedipus
                            Tyrannus,‘" 
                Crawfordsville
              
              Journal, June 17, 1908, p. 4.
            
              19
              Ibid., 1,4.
            
              20 Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays: Part
                            I," 191.
          
          
          
            AUDIENCE AWAITS 1911 PRODUCTION
              OF
              IPHIGENIA AMONG
                THE TAURZANS
              
              ON EAST SIDE
              OF WABASH COLLEGE CAMPUS.
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana,
          
           his scarlet robes in ecstasy about him, crying: ‘The
                    whole gang's weepin’! the whole gang's weepin'!’
                        "21
        

        Although the same setting was revamped for subsequent plays, each production featured unique
                    elements. A startling array of skulls adorned the top of the set for Iphigenia Among
                        the Tau-rians, and an elaborate chariot was mounted on top of the setting for the deus ex machina of Medea. Local youngsters appeared as children
                    of various characters in both productions of Oedipus Tyr-annus as well as in Alcestis and Medea. The cast of the 1914 production of Oedipus Tyrannus included Hains's own young son, Daniel B., in the role
                    of the Attendant to Teiresias.
        The performances enjoyed, in the words of the 
            
              Wabash
            
          , an "almost country-wide reputation … pronounced by competent judges to be
                    the equal of any of the Greek dramas ever presented at 
            Harvard
          ."22 At least two of the productions toured Indiana,
                    playing at high schools in 
            South Bend
           and 
            Muncie
          . Oedipus Tyrannus was presented at Indiana Normal in 
            Terre Haute

          , and additional performances were given in chautauqua tents. In 1912 two evening
                    performances and one matinee of Sophocles' Electra were given in a
                    chautauqua tent at 
            Winona
           Lake. As Hains recalled:

            A chautauqua audience is a mixed one and is very fickle; if the entertainment does not
                            please, the spectators leave the auditorium and sometimes there are only a few seats
                            occupied at the end. Our audiences numbered from two to four thousand at each presentation.
                            There was absolute quiet, even on the part of the children, throughout the hour and three
                            quarters the play took, and the whole body, almost without exception, remained to the
                                close.23
            
          
        
        Hains published four articles in the Classical Journal, a prestigious academic
                    publication, during the years of the play productions.24
          
            
              21 Hains, "Greek Plays in America," 25. This first
                            production included among its cast two particularly distinguished Wabash men: Robert K.
                            Winter (1886–1986), who played the Priest of Zeus, and J. Kenyon Nicholson
                            (1894–1986), as one of the suppliants. Winter studied under Ezra Pound during
                            Pound's brief Wabash career and subsequently developed the first full-fledged
                            English program in 
                China
               at Qinghua University. He was one of the few scholars to remain in 
                China
               after the start of the 1937 war with 
                Japan
              . Shortly before his death at the age of one hundred, Winter received an
                            honorary degree from 
                Wabash

              . He must have been particularly impressive as the priest, since he was cast in
                            similar roles in Antigone (1909), Alcestis (19101, and
                                Iphigenia Among the Taurians (1911). Nicholson, Wabash class of 1917
                            and a 
                Crawfordsville
               native, began a career in playwriting and teaching drama following service in
                            World War I. After the production of several one-act plays Nicholson had a 
                Broadway
               success with The Barker, starring Claudette Colbert in 1927.
                            His other popular plays included Sailor, Beware! (1933), Apple of His Eye (1946), and Out West of Eighth (1951), along
                            with collaborations with S. N. Behrman, John Golden, and Charles Robinson. He also authored
                            books on drama while teaching playwriting at 
                Columbia
               University (where, undoubtedly inspired by Hains, he encouraged production of
                            the classics), and he contributed some screenplays to 
                Columbia
               Pictures.
            
              22 Joseph J. Daniels, Jr., "The Great Drama in Wabash
                            College," 
                
                  Wabash
                
              , June, 1910, p. 259.
            
              23 Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays: Part
                            III," 352–53.
          
          
          
            ROBERT K. WINTER (CENTER) AS
              THE PRIEST
              OF ZEUS
              IN
              THE WABASH COLLEGE PRODUCTION
              OF
              ALCESTZS
              , 1910
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indians.
          
          
          
            SCENE SHOWING
              THE
              DEUS
                EX MACHINA
              
              IN USE
              IN WABASH COLLEGE PRODUCTION
              OF
              MEDEA
              , 1913
            Courtesy Ramsay Archival Center, Wabash College, 
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana.
          
           In these essays he outlined the techniques he used in staging
                    the tragedies and applauded other colleges and universities similarly attempting to revive the
                    classics. He also raised several significant issues about the problems of staging ancient drama in
                    the modern era. In a lecture he presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the Classical Association
                    of the Middle West and South in 
            Chicago

           on April 30, 1910, Hains wrote that his desire to produce the classic dramas stemmed
                    from a "belief in the dramatic power" of the works and to "show a modern
                    audience the masterpieces of a civilization which, though it passed from the stage long ago, has
                    still a mighty influence on the life of the present."25
        
        Hains had carefully tracked productions of the classical plays throughout the 
            United States

          , listing them in a small notebook that covered professional, college, and even high
                    school productions. Sophocles' Antigone was, by far, the most produced,
                    with nearly two dozen productions listed between 1910 and 1915. In Indiana, Hains noted productions
                    at Notre Dame University and Earlham College along with several high schools and little theater
                    groups. Some groups, perhaps feeling overwhelmed by the complexity of the ancient dramas, produced
                    smaller-scale Grecian pageants based on classical myths; these included titles such as Galatea (presented at 
            Frankfort
           High School in 1914) and The Feast of Dido (staged at 
            Terre Haute
          's Wiley High School in 1908), among others.26 Many of
                    these Indiana productions profited directly from Hains's experience; properties and
                    costumes were borrowed repeatedly by many groups. The Wabash College Archives' files on
                    Hains's work include a considerable collection of correspondence requesting advice as well
                    as practical support. Samuel A. Eliot, Jr., director of the 
            Indianapolis

           Little Theatre, wrote to Hains seeking advice about a production of Euripides'
                        Hecuba at the suggestion of Oliver Sayler, an 
            Indianapolis
           reporter who later wrote several books on the modern stage.27 Lena
                    M. Foote, Latin instructor at LaGrange High School, also wrote several letters to Hains after
                    reading his "very interesting and helpful article in the 1914 Classical Journal."
                    Foote borrowed costumes, armor and spears, sandals, 
            
              24 These articles are "Greek Plays in America," VI
                            (October, 1910), 24–39; "The Presentation of Classical Plays: Part
                            I," IX (February, 1914), 189–98; "The Presentation of Classical
                            Plays: Part II," IX (March, 1914), 251–60; and "The
                            Presentation of Classical Plays: Part III," IX (May, 1914), 344–53.
            
              25 Hains, "Greek Plays in America," 25.
            
              26 Hains reported that by 1914 forty-nine colleges and universities,
                            six secondary schools, and eight clubs had given performances of Greek plays (total number
                            of play performances was 193). Latin plays had been given by twenty-nine colleges and
                            universities and four secondary schools, with a total of forty-eight performances. He also
                            noted that fifty-two institutions had presented dramatizations based on Greek and Latin
                            sources. Hains notebook, collection of materials on the "Greek Plays,"
                            Wabash College Archives.
            
              27 Samuel A. Eliot, Jr., to Daniel Dickey Hains, October 2, [n.d], ibid.
          
           and other props for a production of an original dramatization,
                        Dido, The Phoenician Queen.28 For a 1915 pageant at the 
            Indianapolis
           Young Women's Christian Association, Hains loaned costumes for a Greek scene.
                    Responding for the group, Jessica 
            Brown
          , wife of Professor of Greek Demarchus 
            Brown
           of 
            Butler

           College, thanked Hains, noting "the richness of color" in the
                    costumes and, realizing "the enormous amount of work that had gone into the conception and
                    completion of those costumes … it came over me with a pang what a great thing I had asked
                    you to do."29
          
            Brown
           described their presentation in some detail, finding only the scene of "our
                    wonderful 
            Greece

          " to be an "artistic success"; the rest of the YWCA program,
                    she felt, "resembled a Coney Island show far too much."30 The
                    YWCA's amateur cast members were, in the eyes of 
            Brown
          ,

            exquisite—those girls were simply inspired—it was charming to me to see
                            how they threw themselves into it—they made beautiful pictures. … Our
                            Hermes was a laundry girl—Niobe was a worker at an overall factory—Our
                            golden Caryatide was a department store girl—etc.—all of them utter
                            strangers to Greek art or Greek thought—but they were so moved by it that they
                            regretted it when they had to remove those lovely robes. … I said,
                            "Girls, how would you like to go with me to Wabash in June to see the Greek
                            play?"—and they were most enthusiastic about it.31
            
          
        

        Hains's influence was also directly felt in numerous productions outside of Indiana,
                    including, among many others, a 1910 staging of Sophocles' Antigone at
                    the Parthenon in 
            Nashville, Tennessee
          ; a 1914 production of Euripides' Alcestis at Marshall College in West 
            Virginia
          ; a 1915 production of Antigone by the newly formed Classical Club of
                            
            Jacksonville, Illinois

          , staged on the campus of Illinois Woman's College; a
                    1915 production of Euripides' Hippolytus at the 
            Columbia
           College of Expression in 
            Oak Park,
                            Illinois
          ; and a 1910 Antigone and some productions of Plautus' ancient Roman comedies at 
            Ottawa
           University in 
            Kansas
          .32 The reputation of the Wabash productions, and Hains's
                    work, reached as far as the professional theater in 
            New York

          . On July 1, 1914, Hains received a wire from producer Charles Emerson Cook inviting him
                    to work on an "outdoor production here of Antigone late in August with
                    best available professional cast on receipt of your wire 
            
              28 Lena M. Foote to Hains, October 2, 1915, ibid.
            
              29 Jessica 
                Brown
               to Hains, 1915, ibid.
            
              30
              Ibid.
            
              31
              Ibid.
            
              32 Hains also reported on productions at 
                Randolph
              -
                Macon
               College for Women, the University of 
                Iowa
              , the University of 
                Cincinnati
              , Swarthmore, Marshall College, Bradley Polytechnic, Lawrence College, 
                Syracuse
               University, Western College for Women, the University of 
                Nebraska, Rochester
               University, St. Lawrence University, Iowa State
                            University, Vassar, Wellesley, Bryn Mawr, Drury, 
                Washington
               University, and Smith. Hains notebook, ibid.
          
           stating whether you can consider proposition. I shall write you
                    all details and shall go west for personal interview. Please reply immediately care Lambs
                        Club."33 Hains declined the offer, but it was clear that he had
                    exceeded his own expectations in contributing to a heightened interest in the classics.

        Hains resigned from the faculty of Wabash College in 1916 for a career in business (although he
                    served as a member of the Wabash Board of Trustees from 1919 to 1924), but not before directing two
                    more productions unrelated to the series of "Greek Plays." These were John
                    Galsworthy's Pigeon and Shakespeare's Taming of the
                        Shrew for the Wabash College Dramatic Society, started by Professor Lucian Cary
                    (1886–1971) of the Department of English. The society was dedicated to complementing
                    Hains's work by producing significant contemporary dramas (their first production was
                    George Bernard Shaw's comedy Arms and the Man, performed in the spring of
                        1909).34 No classical play was produced at Wabash in 1916 (or for many years
                    thereafter); instead, an elaborate all-college pageant was presented in celebration of the
                    anniversary of Indiana statehood. In eight short years, however, Hains had far exceeded his
                    professed goals. As early as 1910 he had written that performances of the Greek plays "have
                    been given at forty-seven institutions and to the number of a hundred and one. … The
                    increasing number of such performances augurs happily for the future of the classics in our schools
                    and colleges."35
        

        Hains himself had contributed mightily to the bright future for the classics that he envisioned;
                    certainly in Indiana he was responsible for an intensified interest in classical studies. Closer to
                    home, he had established a permanent niche for drama, classical and contemporary, at Wabash College
                    and undoubtedly throughout the state. In responding to a letter praising the emotional power of a
                    chautauqua performance of one of the "Greek Plays," Hains asked, "Can we
                    not hope that this will be repeated many times in the future upon many audiences and that by this
                    means many who now think of Greek as a ‘dead language' may find their ideas
                    decidedly in need of revision?"36
        
        
          
            33 Charles Emerson Cook to Hains, July 1, 1914, telegram, ibid.
          
            34 Information about Hains and about the Dramatic Society can be found in
                        various Wabash College publications, including the Bachelor and the 
              
                Wabash
              
            , as well as from the 
              Crawfordsville
            
            Journal.
          
            35 Hains, "Greek Plays in America," 39.
          
            36 Hains, "The Presentation of Classical Plays: Part
                        III," 353.
        
      
      
      
        
          
            Rushville
          's Dog Fennel Gazette:
        
        Indiana's Mythical Newspaper
        Fredric Brewer⋆
        There is a legend that in the early 1820s a printer named William Dumont Montague Wickham published
                    in 
            Rushville
          , county seat of Indiana's 
            Rush County
          , a weekly newspaper that bore the curious title Dog Fennel Gazette. A
                    popular Indiana reference lists the Dog Fennel as the state's "most unusual newspaper," and several regional histories and
                    journal articles recognize its existence.1 Wickham is said to have arrived in 
            Rushville
           to start the newspaper in either 1822 or 1823.
        No copy of the weekly Dog Fennel has been located, nor has a mention of it been
                    found in existing copies of the newspapers that flourished in the early 1820s, a time when editors
                    usually cited exchange news sheets from which they gleaned most of their news items and occasional
                    editorials, poems, and items of wit. Further, editors generally published prospectuses for proposed
                    newspapers, some of which never materialized when sufficient subscribers were not obtained,2 and it also was common courtesy for newspaper publishers to recognize the
                    first appearance of a weekly in their region. No acknowledgement of the Dog
                        Fennel's founding appears in any of the extant issues of the Indiana, 
            Kentucky
          , or western Ohio sheets that would have been contemporary. The simple reason the 
            
              ⋆ Fredric Brewer, a native of 
                Huntington County
              , Indiana, taught mass communications at Indiana University, 
                Bloomington
              , for twenty-five years before retiring in 1989. He is the author of
                            "Against All Adversities: The Pioneer Printers of 
                Brookville
              , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII
                            (December, 1991), 303–33.
            
              1 Fred D. Cavinder, The Indiana Book of Records, Firsts,
                                and Fascinating Facts (
                Bloomington
              , Ind., 1985), 129. Cavinder contended that the Dog Fennel
                            "was printed on one side of the page and sent to subscribers, who read it and
                            returned it to the publisher so the next edition could be printed on the back side
                            … ." There is no evidence that any newspaper printer, in early Indiana
                            or elsewhere, ever did this. For examples of regional histories and articles attesting to
                            the existence of the Dog Fennel Gazette, see note 6 below.
            
              2 Prospectuses appeared regularly in pioneer newspapers because
                            publishers hoped to be compensated for printing them.
            INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXIX (March, 1993). © 1993, Trustees of Indiana
                            University
          
          
          Dog Fennel earned neither a citation nor a welcome is because the newspaper never
                    existed, probably not even as a proposal.3
        
        The tale of Wickham's legendary weekly began in the pages of an 1879 history of 
            Rush County
           written by John Arnold (1815?–1902), a pioneer 
            Rushville

           physician who depended "mainly on the personal recollections of our old
                    citizens" for his account of the town's pioneer newspapers.4
                    Wrote Arnold:
            The first paper ever published in our county was a unique sheet dubbed the Dog
                                Fennel Gazette, about 10 by 12 inches. Though small, it was spicy and rich, filled
                            with the local news of our county, humor, drollery and keen sarcasm. Its sole editor and
                            proprietor was William D. M. Wickham, an original genius of the first water. The press
                            itself was decidedly pioneer, the bed of it was the top of a sycamore stump, and the lever a
                            long pole inserted into a mortise in a tree standing by its side; on this he printed his Gazette and all the bills called for by the business of the country. This
                            he used for some time, but finally made a great advance by constructing a press of heavy oak
                            timbers. This he called "Wickham's Velocity Press," and did what
                            was then considered good printing. The first number of the Dog Fennel
                            Gazette was issued in the latter part of 1823. This paper for many years supplied the
                            wants of the community.5
            
          
        
        The doctor had planted the seed of newspaper folklore. A second history of 
            Rush County
           (1888) reprinted what Arnold had written but set the Dog
                    Fennel's founding date as either late 1822 or early 1823. In a 1908 atlas the author
                    of a sketch of 
            Rush County

          's history repeated Arnold's original account, adding that Wickham
                    "was a man of marked eccentricity." Later, this same author perpetuated the yarn
                    in an article in the Indiana Magazine of History (1914). Both items had a ring of
                    authority because they were written by John F. Moses, a longtime 
            Rushville
           newspaper editor and publisher. A brief history of 
            Rush County

           (1915) copied Arnold almost word for word. Mary Alden Walker, in her study of
                    Indiana's early printing history (1934), listed the Dog Fennel, citing
                    Moses as her authority. R. Carlyle Buley, in his Pulitzer-Prize-winning history, The
                        Old Northwest, dug no further: "The publisher of the 
            Rushville
          , Indiana, Dog-Fennel Gazette is said to have used a long pole
                    attached to a tree for leverage; having printed one side he rested until the readers caught up with
                    him, then printed the other 
            
              3 Lest the reader think that the Dog
                            Fennel's strange name is sufficient to disqualify it from fact, Indiana has
                            had newspapers with equally weird titles, all of which did exist. Among them were the 
                Portland
              
              Jay County Bazoo (1886–1888); the 
                Rockport
              
              Indiana Pocket (1883–1889), so named because extreme
                            southwestern Indiana, defined by the Wabash and Ohio rivers, was often
                            referred to in the nineteenth century as "the pocket"; the 
                Greenfield
              
              Toothpick (1885); the 
                Richmond
              
              Humming Bird (1866–1870); the 
                Columbus
              
              Soup-Spiller (1852); the Blumon Shoe-Fly (1872); and the 
                Muncie
              
              Mule 11875). Several of these sheets barely passed muster as bearers of
                            news, trafficking instead in the humor of the day or in political venom.
            
              4 J. H. Beers, pub., Atlas of 
                  Rush County
                , Indiana … (
                Chicago
              , 1879), 9.
            
              5
              Ibid. Arnold noted that he found it "rather difficult to give the
                            correct data, as the files of newspapers have not been preserved .
                        …"
          
           side." In a 1972 volume commemorating 
            Rush County
          's 150th birthday, editor A. Harriet Coons set the Dog
                        Fennel's founding date as 1822. A recent 
            Rush County
           history (1984) accepted the newspaper's existence without question.6 Buley—who was a distinguished and honored professional
                    historian—and Moses qualified their citations with "is said";
                    otherwise, historian Allan Nevins probably best stated what was at work here. "It is
                    extraordinary," Nevins wrote, "how far pseudo-historians will go in substituting
                    conjecture for fact when symmetry and completeness of narrative are otherwise
                        unobtainable."7
        
        Other scholars, including at least two Indiana historians, have expressed doubts about the Dog Fennel. The late Logan Esarey, who for many years taught at Indiana University
                    and who was an authority on Indiana history, jotted in his penciled compilation of early Indiana
                    newspapers a notation that the newspaper probably never existed.8 John W.
                    Miller, in his survey of past and present Indiana newspapers, which was published by the Indiana
                    Historical Society in 1982, included the Dog Fennel Gazette, but he cautioned,
                    "The existence of this paper is highly questionable"9 During
                    this writer's studies in journalism at Indiana University, he was in the late 1940s a
                    student of Joseph A. Wright who taught a graduate class in newspaper history. Wright once challenged
                    his students to bring in a photocopy of the Dog Fennel, stating that the lucky
                    soul who was first to fetch one to class would be excused from the final examination. No one was
                    absent from the final.
        The Dog Fennel is noticeably missing from standard newspaper reference works.
                    Winifred Gregory in her seminal compendium of newspapers published in the 
            United States
           did not include the title.10 Paul Swigart's extensive list
                    of American newspapers for 
            
              6 See Brant and Fuller, pub., History of 
                  Rush County
                , Indiana … (
                Chicago
              , 1888), 634; John F. Moses, "Historical Sketch of 
                Rush County
              ," in Atlas and Directory of 
                  Rush County
                , Indiana … (
                Rushville
              , Ind., 1908), 9; Moses, "The Newspapers of 
                Rush County
              ," Indiana Magazine of History, X (March, 1914), 53
                            (Moses was editor-publisher of the 
                Rushville
              
              Republican from 1877 to 1903 and prior to that was editor of the 
                Huntington
              , Ind., Herald from 1870 to 1875); Mary M. Alexander and
                            Capitola Guffin Dill, eds., Sketches of 
                  Rush County
                , Indiana (
                Rushville
              , Ind., 1915), 12; Mary Alden Walker, The Beginnings of Printing in
                                the State of Indiana … (
                Crawfordsville
              , Ind., 1934), 102; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer
                                Period, 1815–1840 (1950; reprint, 2 vols., 
                Bloomington
              , Ind., 19781, II, 510–11 (regarding Buley's remark about
                            single-side printing see note 1 above); A. Harriet Coons, "Newspapers of 
                Rush County
              ," in 
                
                  Rush County
                 Sesquicentennial History, ed. A. Harriet Coons (
                Shelbyville
              , Ind., 1972), 10; A 
                  Rush County
                 Retrospect, 1980's–1920's (2 vols., 
                Rushville
              , Ind., 1984), II, 40.
            
              7 Allan Nevins, The Gateway to History (rev. ed., 
                Chicago
              , 1963), 194.
            
              8 Compilation of Indiana newspapers, Logan Esarey Papers (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                Bloomington
              ).
            
              9 John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography
                            … (
                Indianapolis
              , 1982), 392.
            
              10 Winifred Gregory, American Newspapers,
                                1821–1936: A Union List of Files Available in the 
                  United States
                 and 
                  Canada
                
               (
                New York
              , 1937).
          
           the period 1801–1967 also ignores the Dog Fennel.11 The title is not recorded in the Library of
                    Congress's computerized, serials, and reading room catalogues nor in the 
            
              United States
             Newspaper Project National Union List.12 Neither the
                    University of 
            Chicago
           nor the American Antiquarian Society, both of which have extensive holdings of early
                    midwestern newspapers, indexes Wickham's alleged sheet.
        A number of the doubts expressed about the Dog Fennel have concerned the sycamore
                    stump press. "This quite equals the old jest among the [printing] fraternity about sheets
                    that are worked with swamp mud on a cider press," George S. Cottman wrote in 1906.13 He did not challenge the paper's authenticity; he apparently even
                    originated the tale that the sheet was distributed printed on only one side. In their 
            Rush County

           history (1921), A. L. Gary and E. B. Thomas wrote: "Wickham was certainly not
                    far from a base of supplies, and it surely would seem that the same ox-team that brought his type
                    outfit up here [to Rushvillel could have hauled a small press at the same time, hence the suspicion
                    that the sycamore stump story is mythical. Certainly the type faces were not whittled out of
                    shoe-pegs, and it is equally likely his press was not cut out of a sycamore log."14 That Wickham operated his first press alfresco is, of
                    course, implausible. Rain, snow, thunderstorms, hail, or sleet would have brought a sudden and
                    probably lasting halt to printing, warping the press's wood frame and rusting the metal
                    parts as well as ruining the paper stock and playing havoc with the type cases. More logically, as
                    Moses wrote, "The home and printing office were under the same roof."15 Although the printer's alleged second machine,
                    "Wickham's Velocity Press," might have existed, it is unlikely that it
                    was home built, as Arnold remarked. Wickham could have made a wood frame, but it is stretching the
                    imagination to believe he had access to metal working tools that could turn out such machined parts
                    as bolts, hinges, rails, eye screws, the frisket frame (paper holder), and the like, or the
                    equipment to make the press's spindle, which was a heavy iron or steel column approximately
                    sixteen inches long, three inches in diameter, and spirally threaded. Casting the spindle and then
                    cutting its threads would require the services of a metal foundry, and in the 
            
              11 Paul Swigart, "Chronological Index of Newspapers for the
                            Period 1801–1967," (Library of Congress, 
                Washington
              , D. C.).
            
              12 Printout (1985) of newspapers listed in the Library of
                            Congress's Online Computer Catalogue Center's nationwide bibliographic
                            computerized database (OCLC).
            
              13 George S. Cottman, "The Early Newspapers of
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, II (September, 1906), 115.
                            Cottman gives the founding date of the Dog Fennel as 1832, probably a
                            copying or typographical mishap.
            
              14 A. L. Gary and E. B. Thomas, eds., Centennial History
                                of 
                  Rush County
                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                Indianapolis
              , 19211, I, 313.
            
              15 Moses, "Newspapers of 
                Rush County
              ," 53.
          
           early 1800s there was no such industry in Indiana. On the
                    western frontier at the time apparently the only place that offered such machining was 
            Cincinnati
          , where William 
            Greene

           & Company and a whitesmith named Francis Shield were making and selling
                    printing presses. By early 1822 the Ohio River town also had a
                    printers' supply house that could completely outfit a printing office.16 But why should Wickham have bothered? If one wishes to accept the wild tale of
                    Wickham's outdoor press and an early date for the printer's 
            Rushville

           residency, used presses at reasonable prices were advertised in Indiana around the time
                    he conceivably would have thought of abandoning the stump.17
        
        Was a printing office established in 
            Rush County
           during its very early years, 1822–1826? The evidence says no. The county,
                    created April 1, 1822, was one of thirty-seven carved in whole or in part out of "The New
                    Purchase," some 8,500,000 acres—more than one-third the total area of
                    Indiana—relinquished to the 
            United States
           by the Indians.18 The site for the county seat, "all in
                    the mud and brush" and adjacent to the Flatrock River, was selected in mid-June, 1822, by
                    the newly appointed commissioners.19 The commissioners' next order of
                    business was to direct Conrad Sailors (or Sailor), as agent, to advertise the sale of town lots in
                    weekly gazettes in 
            Indianapolis
           and neighboring 
            Franklin County
          's 
            Brookville
          .20 Obviously a newspaper had yet to be established in 
            Rushville
          . By October the county evidently still had no newspaper. Early that month the
                    peregrinating circuit court arrived in 
            Rushville

           to conduct its business. Among the cases the court heard was a petition for divorce
                    brought by Thomas Colbert whose wife lived out of state. To notify the estranged woman the court was
                    required to publish a notice in a newspaper. According to the account in the Atlas of 
              Rush County
            
          , the item appeared in the 
            Brookville
          
          Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph.21 Had the Dog
                        Fennel existed, it probably would have been the newspaper of choice.
        
          
            16 Fredric Brewer, "Mr. Artzt's Western Lever: A
                        Hitherto Unreported Printing Press," Printing History, XII (No. 1,
                        1990), 41. For details about building a wood press see Elizabeth M. Harris and 
              Clinton
             Sisson, The Common Press … (
              Boston
            , 1978), passim. This work contains foldout plans and technical
                        advice.
          
            17 See advertisements in the 
              New Harmony
            
            Gazette, February 7, 1827, and the 
              Charlestown
            
            Farmers' and Mechanics' Aduocate, December 22, 1827.
          
            18 James Albert Woodburn, The New Purchase (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, Vol. VI, No. 1; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1919), 43–54.
          
            19 Quotation from Atlas of 
                Rush County
              
             (1879), 17. The county and county seat were named in honor of Benjamin
                        Rush, a prominent 
              Philadelphia
             physician and a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Ibid.,
                        5.
          
            20
            History of 
                Rush County
              
            , 287. At the time both communities were among the state's most
                        attractive areas for real estate investment. 
              Indianapolis
            , recently selected as the site for the state capital although the governmental seat
                        was still in Corydon, and 
              Brookville
            , where a land office opened in 1819, attracted land hungry pioneers seeking choice
                        parcels in the New Purchase at federal prices and land speculators who often got to the parcels
                        first.
          
            21
            Atlas of 
                Rush County
              
             (1879), 7. The issue containing this notice has not been located.
        
        
        If John Scott's tabulation of doctors, lawyers, mechanics, and businesses and trades is
                    correct in his gazetteer, which was the state's first, 
            Rushville
           as late as 1826 did not have a printing office. It seems unlikely that Scott, a printer
                    himself and then proprietor of a printing office in nearby 
            Centerville
           in 
            Wayne County
          , would be unaware of whether 
            Rushville
           had a press.22 His gazetteer notes printing establishments in other
                    Indiana towns. Furthermore, Scott placed 
            Rushville

          's population at "about 100," which certainly would
                    discourage a printer from setting up shop.23 From this evidence, albeit sparse,
                    one can only conclude that a printing press was not introduced in 
            Rush County
           until some time later. Furthermore, Wickham was not in 
            Rush County
           during the period 1822–1823 when the Dog Fennel is said to
                    have been founded. He was in southern Indiana, probably most of the time at 
            Vevay
           in 
            Switzerland County
          , and he did not leave 
            Vevay
           until some point in 1825.
        Wickham was born in 1802 in 
            New York
           state.24 He and his mother Jane appear to have arrived in 
            Vevay
           in the spring of 1814, some thirty-two months before Indiana attained statehood.25 Likely they traveled west with Wickham's uncle, John Dumont.26 Once settled in 
            Vevay
          , Wickham's mother wed Jesse Murphy, of Fair-view in 
            Switzerland County
          , who preceded her in death. A teacher, she established a school in a frame building on 
            Vevay
          's 
            Pike
           Street. Probably in 1818, in the early part of the year, young Wickham was bound over
                    as an apprentice to William C. Keen, printer and co-owner with John Francis DuFour, founder of 
            Vevay
          , of the 
            Vevay
          
          Indiana Register.27 Obviously Wickham was not thrilled with
                    his apprentice duties, as this runaway notice indicates:
            SIX CENTS REWARD
            Ranaway on Friday ev[e]ning the 4th inst. [December 4, 1818] an indent[ur]ed apprentice 
                
                  22 John Scott (1793–1838), a native of 
                    Cumberland County
                  , 
                    Pennsylvania
                  , came to Indiana in 1816. He was associated with weekly newspapers in
                                            
                    Brookville, Richmond, Centerville
                  , and 
                    Logansport
                  . Gayle Thornbrough, "John Scott and The Indiana
                                        Gazetteer," in John Scott, The Zndiana Gazetteer, or
                                        Topographical Dictionary…, ed. Gayle Thornbrough (1826; reprint, 
                    Indianapolis
                  , 19541, 7–20.
                
                  23 John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, or
                                        Topographical Dictionary… (Centre-ville, Ind., 1826),
                                    104–105.
                
                  24 U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                    Henry County
                  , Indiana, p. 516.
                
                  25 It is unknown what happened to Wickham's father or
                                    whether mother and son were accompanied to Indiana Territory by his
                                    mother's second husband, whose name was Steele. This marriage also ended,
                                    whether by death or divorce is unknown. Perret Dufour, The Swiss
                                        settlement of 
                      Switzerland County
                    , Indiana (Zndiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIII; 
                    Indianapolis
                  , 1925), 115, 356.
                
                  26 One of early 
                    Switzerland County
                  's prominent citizens, John Dumont served as a justice of the
                                    peace, a state representative, and president of the 
                    Vevay

                   Literary Society. In 1837 he made an unsuccessful bid for the Indiana
                                    governorship. Ibid., 35, 45, 46, 171, 172, 370.
                
                  27
                  Ibid., 35, 115, 356. 
                    Vevay
                  's founder seems to have preferred that his surname be spelled
                                    DuFour.
              
               to the printing business named William
                                Dumont Montague Wickham, between 16 and 17 years of age, about 5 feet, 2 or 3
                            inches high, fair complexion, blue eyes and white hair; had, when he went away one blue
                            broad cloth coat considerably worn, one pair black cloth pantaloons, partly new, one pair
                            green broad cloth pantaloons, new, a roram hat, pretty well worn, coarse shoes, together
                            with sundry articles of summer clothing not recollected. © This is the third time
                            he has runaway within the space of eight months. The above reward will be given on the
                            delivery of him to me in 
                Vevay
              .
            ROBT. BURCHFIELD
            
              
                Vevay
              , Dec. 1528
            
          
        
        If Wickham's unhappy apprenticeship ran its usual course, it would have ended after five to
                    seven years, or at the earliest, which seems likely, around 1823. Under whom Wickham trained besides
                    Burchfield cannot be determined, nor is it even certain that he was in 
            Vevay
           during all his training years. Keen seems to have left the 
            Vevay
           printing office at some point before December, 1818, thus yielding the day-to-day
                    operation of the newspaper to Burchfield, who in turn may have left the establishment in early 1819,
                    leaving John DuFour the sole principal. A printer named John Douglass (1787–1851), who
                    was living in nearby 
            Madison
          , replaced Burchfield as the office's supervising journeyman.29 He soon acquired DuFour's share and changed the paper's name to the Indiana Register and 
              Vevay
             and Ghent Advertiser, which failed around May, 1819. Douglass then teamed up
                    with a local lawyer, Stephen C. Stevens, in a new venture, the 
            Vevay
          
          Independent Examiner,
          
            
              28
              
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, March 13, 1819. The Republican
                            published this runaway notice several times, starting as early as January 30, 1819; but in
                            the January 30 issue the notice is partly torn away. Robert Burchfield, a journeyman
                            printer, appears to have been with the 
                Vevay
              
              Indiana Register at its inception, possibly as foreman of the
                            newspaper's mechanical department. In 1914 newspaper editor John Moses wrote that
                            Rushvillians remembered Wickham as "a tall, angular man." Moses,
                            "Newspapers of 
                Rush County
              ," 15. Angular would be a fitting description for an early printer
                            whose frame often became permanently stooped from years of pulling the impression bar of his
                            press, a strenuous task. In a small town such a person would stick out like a signpost. But
                            was Wickham "tall"? Apparently he was not if Burchfield's
                            description of him was accurate, which it undoubtedly was. A youth in his middle teens in
                            1818, Wickham probably did not grown much taller.
            
              29 After learning the printing trade in 
                Lancaster, Pennsylvania
              , John Douglass "wested" in the
                            early 1800s, probably first to 
                Cincinnati
               where he may have become acquainted with two young lawyers, William Hendricks
                            (1782–1850; Indiana governor 1822–1825) and Seth M. Leavenworth
                            (1782?–1853; surname occasionally spelled Levenworth; state representative from 
                Crawford County
               1826–1830). In 1813 Hendricks and 
                Leavenworth
              , having acquired a printing press, removed to 
                Madison
              , Indiana, where they founded the Western Eagle,
                            Indiana's second newspaper. No doubt several printers accompanied them, one of whom
                            may have been Douglass. Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                  Indianapolis
                 and 
                  Marion County
                
               (
                Philadelphia
              , 1884), 235; History of 
                  Dearborn, Ohio
                 and Switzerland
                                Counties, Indiana (
                Chicago
              , n.d.1, 1055; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols.,
                            1915, 1918; reprint ed., 2 vols. in 1, 
                Indianapolis

              , 1970), II, 1102; Frederick D. Hill, "William Hendricks: Indiana
                            Politician and Western Advocate, 1812–1850" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 1972), 5–6; A
                                Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly: Vol. I, 1816–1899 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1980), 234.
          
           which lasted about two years.30 Douglass
                    returned to 
            Madison
           and with William Carpenter launched the 
            Madison
          
          Western Clarion in March, 1822. A year later he and Carpenter carted their press
                    and type to Corydon, then the state capital, where they became printers to the state. Whether
                    Wickham was with Douglass during these changes and moves is unknown.31
        
        In 1824 Will Keen revived the 
            Vevay
          
          Indiana Register, and Wickham, obviously by now a journeyman, was back under
                    Keen's wings. In early October, 1824, Wickham announced his intent to publish an Indiana
                    gazetteer "Containing a full and comprehensive view of the counties, towns, village[s] and
                    boroughs, and the number of their inhabitants, the names of rivers and creeks with their sources and
                    the particular tract of country watered by them—an account of the earliest settlement of
                    each place and the origin of the name: together with a statistical view of the whole." The
                    gazetteer would "be printed in pamphlet form, and … contain between forty and
                    fifty medium octave [sic] pages." Wickham set the price at twenty-five
                    cents for subscribers, at thirty-one and one-fourth cents for nonsubscribers. He asked newspapers to
                    publish his prospectus once a month for four months and send accounts to him for payment at the
                    office of the Indiana Register.32 The prospectus subsequently
                    appeared in several Indiana newspapers, one 
            
              30 Stephen C. Stevens,(1793–1869) was prominent in early
                            Indiana abolitionist, political, and legal circles. He served in both houses of the Indiana
                            legislature and was a judge of the Indiana Supreme Court from 1831 to 1836; in 1846 he was
                            an unsuccessful gubernatorial candidate. A lieutenant colonel in the War of 1812, he
                            suffered a severe head wound at the Battle of 
                New Orleans
              . The injury eventually affected his mental health, and in his final year he was
                            confined to the 
                Indianapolis
               Asylum for the Insane where he died a broken, impoverished, forgotten man. 
                Richmond
              , Ind., Palladium, November 16, 1869; Daniel McDonald, A History of Freemasonry in Indiana from 1806 to 1898 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1898), 84; Leander J. Monks, Logan Esarey, and Ernest V. Shockley, Courts and Lawyers of Indiana (2 vols., 
                Indianapolis
              , 1916), I, 84, 195–97; William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                Indianapolis

              , 1883), 357–59; John William Miller, "The Pioneer
                            Newspapers of Indiana, 1804–1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue
                            University, 1975), 45; Biographical Directory of the Indiana General
                            Assembly, I, 371–72. The brief death announcement in the 
                Richmond
              
              Palladium confirms that Stevens died in 1869 rather than in 1870, the date
                            most often cited in biographical sketches.
            
              31 In late 1824 Douglass and his family accompanied the wagon train
                            that transported the official state records and state treasury, as well as his printing
                            equipment, to 
                Indianapolis
               from Corydon. On January 11, 1825, he and Douglass Maguire founded 
                Indianapolis
              's third newspaper, the Indiana Journal. See
                            "The Removal of the State Capital to 
                Indianapolis
              ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVII (September,
                            1931), 240–43. Following a foreword by Mildred C. Stoler, this article contains
                            accounts by Samuel Merrill, Indiana's first state treasurer, and Mary Catherine
                                (née Anderson) Naylor who, with her brother William and
                            sister Lydia Jane, the wife of Merrill, made the harrowing cross-country journey from
                            Corydon to 
                Indianapolis
               with the Merrills, John Douglass and his wife Maria (née Green) and their three children, and a teamster named Siebert (also
                            spelled Seybert). The trek took two weeks.
            
              32
              
                Vevay
              
              Indiana Register, October 15, 1824. The announcement is dated October 9,
                            1824.
          
           of which was, most interestingly, John Scott's Western Emporium at 
            Centerville

          . At the time Scott may have been thinking about bringing out his Indiana gazetteer as
                    well. Likely strapped for money to meet his debts to the newspapers that carried his prospectus,
                    Wickham in February, 1825, offered "a first rate shot gun" for sale, which could
                    be seen at the office of the Indiana Register. First rate or not, the gun was
                    still unsold by early April.33 Either within a few weeks or within several
                    months Wickham quit Keen's printing office. In the autumn of 1825 Edmund Buxton, editor of
                    the 
            Richmond
          
          Public Leger, queried Keen about the gazetteer: "A few weeks since we
                    inquired of the editor of the 
            Vevay

           Register when the Indiana Gazzetteer would be published, to which he returned the
                    following: ‘William D. M. Wickham, who proposed publishing the ‘Indiana
                    Gazzetteer,’ has left this place.—I know not when it will make its appearance,
                    consequently I am unable to give my friend, the editor of the Leger, the information
                    required.’ "34
        
        It it unknown if Wickham tarried awhile in 
            Vevay

           or if he made a sudden departure for the rapidly developing New Purchase area. In
                    either case his gazetteer was never published, perhaps because of lack of sufficient subscribers. It
                    is also possible, however, that Wickham had a falling out with Keen, known for driving a hard
                        bargain,35 because he could not work out a satisfactory financial agreement
                    to use the Register's equipment. More intriguing, though, is that John
                    Scott could have been the motivating factor in Wickham's relocation. Fearing that
                    Wickham's gazetteer would appear before his, Scott might have lured Wickham to 
            Centerville
           with an offer that the young printer found irresistible—or so it is
                    interesting to conjecture.

        Soon after his arrival in Indiana in 1816, Scott apparently began gathering information about
                    settlements and resources with the intention of publishing a guide for ernigrants.36 When, in late 1824, Wickham's prospectus arrived at Scott's printing
                    office with a request that it be run in the Western Emporium as an advertisement,
                    Scott's competitive streak undoubtedly was aroused.37 Whether any
                    arrangement transpired between Scott and Wickham is certainly open for argument, but obviously Scott
                    soon got to work on his gazetteer. On June 15, 1826, he registered his title—The Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionay—in 
            Indianapolis
           with Henry Hurst, clerk of the 
            United States
           courts, Indiana 
            
              33
              Ibid., April 8, 1825. The advertisement is dated
                            February 11.
            
              34
              
                Richmond
              , Ind., Public Leger, October 15, 1825.
            
              35 "The Diary of Horace Stow," in Year
                                Book of the Society of Indiana Pioneers (n.p., 1952), 13, 15.
            
              36 Scott, Indiana Gazetteer, 4.
            
              37 The prospectus initially appeared in the Western
                                Emporium, January 8, 1825.
          
           district, and soon announced that subscriptions were being taken
                    for the volume. His solicitation, dated June 30, 1826, appeared in various Indiana weeklies.
                    Printing and binding were likely completed near the end of summer. For twenty-five cents subscribers
                    received a small, paper-covered, 142-page book containing geographic and demographic data,
                    information that Wickham intended for his abandoned project. Unfortunately, Scott did not include an
                    "account of the earliest settlement of each place," which Wickham promised
                    subscribers and which eventually would have aided historians.38
                    Wickham's name does not appear on the title page as a copublisher, only Scott's
                    and that of William Doughty, a 
            Centerville
           innkeeper—later, 
            Wayne County

          's coroner—who obviously helped finance the book. The only printer,
                    other than Scott, definitely known to have been associated with the gazetteer was a young compositor
                    named Isaiah Osborn.39 That Wickham could have had a hand in the work is
                    nonetheless a possibility.40
        
        If Wickham did not work with Scott in 
            Centerville
          , there were other settlements in the New Purchase region that had printing
                            offices—
            Indianapolis, Terre Haute, Richmond
           (Edmund Buxton's query to Will Keen suggests that he did
                    not go there), 
            Brownsville, Connersville
          , and 
            Brookville
          .41 By early 1827 his name appears in 
            
              38 Scott, Indiana Gazetteer, 4; Thornbrough,
                            "John Scott and The Indiana Gazetteer," 11, 16. The
                            registration date with Hurst appears on the verso of the
                            gazetteer's title page.
            
              39 "From Me to Thee," in Year Book of
                                the Society of Indiana Pioneers (n.p., 1952), 35n. Osborn later worked in 
                Indianapolis
               as a typesetter.
            
              40 Scott obviously required a fairly good sized staff for he was
                            involved in several ventures besides getting out his newspaper each week, meeting
                            "job" printing commitments, and printing the gazetteer. From his office
                            came Indiana's first book of poetry, which was a reprint of Joel Barlow's
                            "The Columbiad; a manual bearing the curious title A School Book for
                                Militia, in Which Tackticks Are Explained by the Shape of Human Feet, with Notes and
                                Explanation; and the first Indiana state map, engraved on copperplate by 
                Cincinnati
              's William Woodruff but water-colored by hand and printed in 
                Centerville

              . Scott also may have issued a reprint of the Reverend George Burder's
                            1804 fancy, Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress Versified,
                            although no copies have been located. Thornbrough, "John Scott and The
                                Indiana Gazetteer," 10–12, 14; Walter Sutton, The
                                Western Book Trade: 
                  Cincinnati
                 as a Nineteenth-Century Publishing and Book-Trade Center…
                                    (
                Columbus, Ohio
              , 1961), 80; Cecil K. Byrd and Howard H. Peckham,
                                A Bibliography of Indiana Imprints, 1804–1853 (
                Indianapolis
              , 19551, 42, 68; Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana
                                Literature (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLII; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1962), 50; 
                Vevay
              
              Indiana Register, December 2, 1825 (prospectus for Scott's map of
                            Indiana); Centreville, Ind., Western Emporium, May 29, 1824 (prospectus,
                            dated April 1, 1824, for Scott's edition of Barlow's "Columbiad).
            
              41 Lest one be misled to believe that Wickham took up residency in 
                Indianapolis
               in late 1825 because his name appears in a list of persons for whom mail was
                            being held by the 
                Indianapolis
               post office, presumably in early 1826, it is noted that the 
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, which printed the list, is incorrectly dated January 3,
                            1826. The actual date of the issue is January 3, 1825. The letter possibly was a query about
                            or a subscription for Wickham's proposed gazetteer. Also misleading is a brief item
                            in the 
                Cincinnati
              
              Literary Gazette, April 23, 1825, which reported that "Mr. D. M.
                            Wickham, of Indianopolis [sic], proposes to publish a Gazetteer of the
                            state of Indiana."
          
           connection with the 
            Rush County
           seat of government. According to one account, in the spring of 1827 Wickham and a
                    person named Brent set up a press in 
            Rushville
           and began printing a weekly called the Village Press, which lasted
                    less than one year.42 Wickham was definitely in 
            Rushville
           by 1828 for on March 23 of that year he and Sally McManis, a native of 
            Ohio
          , were married there.43 It is unlikely that he was not pursuing his
                    trade. He may have been solely a job printer at this time, churning out forms for official county
                    business and handbills for horse sales rather than a newspaper.44 Of course,
                    Wickham and a partner could have revived the Village Press although this seems
                    doubtful.
        Wickham, his wife, and their infant daughter were tallied in the 1830 federal census of 
            Rush County
          ,45 and during the succeeding decade the printer was involved with a
                    series of county newspapers. In 1830 Wickham most likely was associated with the Indianian, a 
            Rushville

           weekly founded in either the spring or early summer of 1830 by William J. Brown, about
                    whom nothing is known. This affiliation seems logical, for twenty-nine years later Wickham displayed
                    a copy of the August 24, 1830, Indianian to a gathering of old settlers who
                    assembled in 
            Knightstown
          .46 Surely a copy of the Dog Fennel Gazette would
                    have been a more appropriate choice for Wickham to exhibit had one existed. The Indianian failed in the spring of 1831. That autumn Wickham founded the 
            Rushville
          
          True American. The weekly, which he proclaimed was "Devoted to News,
                    Politics, Industry, Morality, Literature & Amusement,"47
                    apparently was unable to live up to these assurances for it expired in late 1832. Undismayed,
                    Wickham, in early 1833 founded another weekly, the 
            Rushville
          
          Gazette. This time he was cautious: "the many attempts to establish a
                    press in 
            Rushville
          , and the frequent failures which have followed, warns us to 
            
              42 Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 395. No
                            copy of this sheet has surfaced; this author has found it mentioned only in
                            Miller's book. There was an earlier Village Press in 
                Connersville
              , founded December 2, 1824, by John Swayze and Company, but it likely expired
                            after its maiden issue. Swayze abandoned the title and moved his press to 
                Brownsville
               in Union County where, in February, 1825, he launched The Flying
                                Roll and Union Advertiser.
            
              43
              
                Rush County
               Marriage Record Book II, 1826–1829, 
                Rush County
               Clerks Office, 
                Rush County
               Courthouse, 
                Rushville
              , Indiana; "
                Rush County
              , Indiana, Marriages, Book II, 1826–1829," The
                                Hoosier Genealogist, IV (January–February, 1964), 4.
            
              44
              
                Rush County
              's population had been on a steady climb from its founding, and such
                            growth attracted pioneer printers like a magnet. In 1820 "only a few white trappers
                            and hunters lived in 
                Rush County

              , but by 1830 the population had reached nearly 10,000. …"
                            Wayne E. Kiefer, 
                
                  Rush County
                , Indiana: A Study in Rural Settlement Geography (
                Bloomington
              , Ind., 1969), 4. There probably was enough printing business for Wickham to eke
                            out a living.
            
              45 U. S., Fifth Census, 1830, Population Schedules for 
                Rush County
              , Indiana, p. 512.
            
              46
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Daily State Sentinel, August 15, 1859.
            
              47
              
                Rushville
              
              True American, November 24, 1831.
          
           be reserved in our promises. No doubt can be entertained but
                    that a newspaper in 
            Rush County
           conducted on liberal principles would meet a respectable support."48 Wickham's choice of words—"many
                    attempts" and "frequent failures"—offers matter for thought.
                    Were there indeed other newspapers, besides the Indianian and possibly the
                    questionable Village Press, in 
            Rushville
           prior to Wickham's True American? Other than that the Dog Fennel Gazette was not among them, it may never be known for certain. And
                    "liberal principles"? Perhaps the "old citizens" who responded
                    to John Arnold's query about newspapers recalled 
            Rush County

          's early journalistic attempts as less than satisfactory and used a disparaging
                    nickname—dog fennel—for at least one of those efforts. More importantly,
                    Wickham's politics, said to have been Jacksonian Democrat, might have been an anathema to
                    many persons in a county where antislavery Quakers were settling in increasing numbers.49 Both the True American and the 
            Rushville
          
          Gazette are alleged to have had a Jacksonian bias although this is impossible to
                    prove since so few issues of Wickham's weeklies have survived.50 It
                    does seem logical, however, that some 
            Rush County

           pioneers who lived into the late 1870s might have designated any newspaper that touted
                    Jacksonian politics as a stinking weed, and dog fennel certainly was that.51
        
        Wickham's 
            Rushville
          
          Gazette expired in early 1835, likely absorbed by the Indiana Herald
                        and 
              Rushville
             Gazette, which was founded by Thomas Wallace of 
            Chillicothe, Ohio
          , and Samuel Davis of 
            Covington, Kentucky

          . In time,
                    this paper ended, only to be succeeded by other weeklies, and possibly Wickham was associated as a
                    printer with all of them. He also was active as a job printer. One of his contracts was to publish
                    the minutes of the yearly meetings of the Whitewater Baptist Association,52 and
                    his last known printing task for the Baptists is dated August, 1844.
        
          
            48
            
              Rushville
            
            Gazette, January 5, 1833, quoted in Gary and Thomas, Centennial
                            History, I, 324. The January 5 issue of the Gazette has not been
                        located. Apparently only the January 19, 1833, issue and pages 3 and 4 of the February 2, 1833,
                        issue have survived.
          
            49 Kiefer, 
              
                Rush County
              , Indiana, passim.
          
            50 Moses, "Newspapers of 
              Rush County
            ," 53, 58; Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 392,
                        393.
          
            51 Dog fennel (Anthemis cotula), also called stinking
                        chamomile, is a pernicious weed whose "acrid juice poisons the skin when the plant is
                        freely handled" and is irritating to mucous membranes. W. S. Blatchley, The Indiana Weed Book (
              Indianapolis
            , 1912), 180; John M. Kingsbury, Poisonous Plants of the 
                United States
               and 
                Canada
              
             (Englewood Cliffs, N. J., 1964), 393. Wickham was certainly knowledgeable
                        enough about agriculture to know that dog fennel, if such a title ever occurred to him, would be
                        an unfortunate choice for a newspaper name in a county dominated by a farm population that
                        viewed the weed as injurious to livestock.
          
            52 Byrd and Peckham, Bibliography of lndiana Imprints,
                        100, 220–21, 249; Douglas C. McMurtrie, Indiana Imprints,
                            1804–1849 … (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI,
                        No. 5; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1937), 330–31.
        
        
        
          
          PAGE 1 OF WILLIAM D. M. WICKHAM'S RUSHVILLE TRUE AMERICAN, NOVEMBER
                        12,1831
          Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indianapolis.
        
        
        
          
          PAGE 3 OF WILLIAM D. M. WICKHAM'S RUSHVILLE TRUE AMERICAN, NOVEMBER
                        12,1831
          Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indianapolis.
        
        
        At some date after 1844 Wickham removed to 
            Knightstown
           in adjoining 
            Henry County
          . He and his family were tallied in 1850 by the 
            Henry County
           census taker.53 He stayed in 
            Knightstown

           the remainder of his life, and it would be idle speculation to think he was not active
                    as a printer. For a brief spell, June GSeptember 18, 1853, he was the village's postmaster,
                    one of the several coveted appointments pioneer printers sought to supplement their incomes,54 and he almost assuredly was a printer for the several weeklies that blossomed
                    and wilted in 
            Knightstown
          . His affiliation with one, the Citizen, is known.55 In his sixty-fifth year Wickham apparently was still active at his trade, but it was his
                    final year. Reported the 
            Knightstown
          
          Banner in its July 26, 1867, issue:

            DIED—Suddenly about 12 o'clock on the night of the 24th of July, of heart
                            disease, W. D. M. WICKHAM of this place.
            We receive the announcement of his death as we go to press. Mr. Wickham was the oldest
                            printer in the State at the time of his death. He was universally admired for his genial
                            qualities and uprightness of character. In his death this community suffers an irreparable
                            loss.
          
        
        The item was published on the front page and was set off with turned rules, a solemn practice
                    newspaper editors once employed to mark the passing of a notable person. Wickham was interred in 
            Knightstown

           in the old burial ground just south of the Glen Cove Cemetery at the corner of West
                    Morgan and North McCullum streets. There three weathered gravestones are huddled together, one for
                    Wickham, and next to his, one for Jane Murphy, engraved "His Mother," and another
                    for Sally Wickham, his wife.56 And there must rest as well whatever truth there
                    is in the yarn of the Dog Fennel Gazette.
        
          
            53 U. S., Seventh Census, 1850, Population Schedules of 
              Henry County
            , Indiana, p. 547.
          
            54 J. David Baker, The Postal History of Indiana (2
                        vols., 
              Louisville
            , 1976), 11, 963. Among other supplementary incomes eagerly sought were justice of
                        the peace, state printer, and official republisher of federal laws, a position designated by the 
              United States
             Department of State.
          
            55 According to the 
              Indianapolis
            
            Indiana Daily State Sentinel of August 15, 1859, Wickham told a meeting of old
                        settlers in 
              Knightstown
             that he was "now engaged in printing" the Citizen.
          
            56 R. Thomas Mayhill, Early Cemetery Records of Wayne
                            Township, 
                Henry County
              , Indiana (
              Knightstown
            , Ind., 1968), 27.
        
      
      
      
        Service Afield and Afloat: A Reminiscence of the Civil War
        Edited by Guy R. Everson⋆

        Hiram H. Martin thought of himself as just an ordinary fellow. Looking back on his life as he began
                    penning the reminiscences he was to leave behind for his daughters, he concluded that he had not
                    done anything that called "for any especial commendation."l
                    Yet the story of his life—particularly that part of it spent in the service of his
                    country—is well worth considering, if for no other reason than because it is a story that
                    has been repeated many times over by the young men and women who have left their civilian pursuits
                    in times of national emergency and answered the call to arms.
        Born of "poor, but honest parentage," on June 9, 1843, about four miles from Port
                    Huron, 
            Michigan
          , Martin remembered his early years as "the happy days of inocent childhood
                    when it took but little to satisfy the mind … ." In 1851, however, his father
                    died unexpectedly, and the innocent days of childhood came to an end. In later years Martin
                    attributed his failure to accomplish some great thing to "my father dying when I was so
                    young, [a circumstance which] prevented in part, my not having an opportunity to obtain But a meager
                    education, except what I strove and worked for my self."
        
          
            ⋆ Guy R. Everson is a certified public accountant in Honea
                        Path, 
              South Carolina
            , and a graduate student in history at Clemson University, Clemson, 
              South Carolina
            .
          
            1 On June 9, 1896, Hiram H. Martin sat down and began writing an account
                        of his life. A man with a keen sense of history, he had been frustrated in his attempts to learn
                        about his parents and grandparents by the paucity of information that was available to him, and
                        he was determined that his descendants—if they were so inclined—would not
                        have the same difficulty. "… if my descendents," he wrote,
                        "take any thing like the interest in [tracing] their ancestors as I have done to trace
                        mine, they will I know, highly appreciate what I shall detail here." He then proceeded
                        to set forth—in 114 pages of handwritten reminiscences—the major events in
                        his life as best he could recall them. The original of this handwritten memoir is now in the
                        possession of Martin's great-granddaughter, Mrs. Phyllis Dalton of Greenwood, 
              South Carolina
            , and is reproduced here with her kind permission.
        
        
        In October of 1860 Martin's family moved to 
            La Porte
          , Indiana, where they found "great excitement every where over the
                    [presidential] election." Caring little about politics up to that time, Martin soon came to
                    believe that "the principals of Unionism and patriotism was best represented by Abraham 
            Lincoln
          , and the Republican party." 
            Lincoln
          , of course, was elected, but it was the South's talk of seceding that made
                    Hiram Martin "an ardent Union boy." Not old enought to enlist when the first call
                    for 75,000 volunteers went out at the fall of Fort Sumter, Martin had to bide his time. At the end
                    of July, 1861, however, "the shock to the loyal North over the disastrous battle of Bull
                    Run increased the determination to bring the seceded States back into the Union. When the call for
                    300,000 more troops was made by President 
            Lincoln
          ," he recalled, "I could stand it no longer, although there was no one
                    around there that I was acquainted with that was going at that time, I went up to 
            La Porte

           Aug 4, 1861, and enlisted in Co. G. 29th Indiana Infantry, and was sworn in
                    … ."2
        
        SERVICE AFIELD
          3
        
        "… [I] was sworn in," Martin recalled, "by Col. Jno. F. Miller,
                    who was quite a young looking man and who afterwards rose to the rank of Maj. Genl. and in 1880
                    became a US. Senator from the state of 
            California
          .4
        
        
          
            2 According to the Indiana Constitution of 1851 eighteen was the minimum
                        legal age required for service in the militia. When President Abraham 
              Lincoln

             issued the first call for volunteers in April, 1861, Martin was approximately two
                        months short of his eighteenth birthday. By July, of course, he had passed this milestone.
                        Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana: A Source Book of
                            Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical Notes Vol. I, 1780–1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. I; 
              Indianapolis

            , 1916), 358. Officially, Martin was mustered in with the rest of the 29th Indiana
                        Volunteer Infantry Regiment on August 27, 1861. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of
                            the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
              Indianapolis
            , 1866–1869), IV, 670.
          
            3 The following excerpts from Hiram M. Martin's reminiscences
                        were transcribed from photocopies of the original handwritten memoir. Martin himself apparently
                        edited his account at some point, scratching out certain words and phrases and adding others.
                        Every attempt has been made to select Martin's preferred version of his reminiscence.
                        Material written above the line or in margins has been inserted in what appears to be the proper
                        place in the text. Abbreviations have been brought down to the line, and those written as
                        2", 4", l", for example, have been transcribed as 2nd, 4th, 1st, etc.
                        Martin sometimes used dashes, and occasionally what appear to be commas, to end sentences. All
                        such closing marks have been transcribed as periods. Where there is no end punctuation at all,
                        double spaces have been used to designate sentence breaks. In two instances Martin inserted
                        unnecessary question marks in the text, perhaps to remind himself to check factual information
                        that he had included. Those marks have been deleted. Although every attempt was made to
                        determine Martin's intent regarding paragraphing and
                        capitalization—particularly in the case af words beginning with c,
                        s, and a—arbitrary decisions were frequently necessary. People
                        and places have been identified either in footnotes or in brackets in the text. Missing letters
                        have also been added in brackets when it was believed they were necessary for clarification.
          
            4 John 
              Franklin
             Miller (1831–1886) was a native of 
              South Bend
            , Indiana. He practiced law for several years in Napa, 
              California
            , during the 1850s but returned
        
        
        "I remember getting my hair cut close to my head before coming home. I was given a furlough
                    for one week at the end of which time I returned and entered into Camp life. Our Rendezvous was
                    about two miles from LaPorte near the banks of Clear Lake, and our camp was named, Camp 
            Jackson
          .
        "We remained there about a month recruiting our regiment. The impressions of my first
                    soldier life remains green in my memory. While it was far removed from the comforts of home, as we
                    had long board tables and bunks made from boards and which were covered over. For our menue we had
                    fresh meet, potatoes and vegetables Yet it was paradise to what we had, when we got out into the
                    field. I had a taste of the hospital before I left that camp, as I caught a severe cold and was
                    quite sick. The day before we were to leave for 
            Indianapolis
           the citizens gave us a great dinner out in the grove, and I was so anxious to be there
                    that I left the Hospital and went there against the Doctors advise. The next day we started for 
            Indianapolis

           and I was so eagar to go although feeling very bad, [that I] started with the rest,
                    with my blanket around me Angie and Carrie my sisters were at the Depot to see me off. Henry [my
                    brother] had gone to Mich, near St. Joe the fall before, and he had just enlisted in the 12th. Mich.
                    Infy. Co. B. and came to see me just before I left.5 I being sick was given a
                    seat in a good car while the rank and file had to ride in box cars. We went in Camp at Camp Morton
                    near 
            Indianapolis
           where we remained until sometime in Oct.6 While lying there my cold
                    had de[vel]oped into quite a Cough 
            to 
                South Bend
               in 1855. When the Civil War broke out, he was commissioned colonel of the 29th
                            Indiana Volunteer Infantry, which, as a part of General Don Carlos Buell's Army of
                            the 
                Ohio
              , did good service on the second day at 
                Shiloh
              . Miller subsequently participated in the Battle of 
                Murfreesboro
              , the Tullahoma Campaign, and the decisive Battle of 
                Nashville
              , where he was brevetted major general for his services in turning back the
                            Confederate attack. Returning to California after the war, he was elected to the 
                United States
               Senate in 1880. He died in 1886. Ezra J. Warner, Generals in Blue:
                                Lives of the Union Commanders (
                Baton Rouge
              , 1964), 324–25.
            
              5 Hiram Martin was the fourth of six children born to Abram and
                            Lavinia Wilson Martin. Their first child, Bryant, was born March 10, 1837, but died in
                            infancy. Bryant was followed by Henry (December 1, 1838), Adaline (February 16, 1841), Hiram
                            (June 9, 1843), Angeline (July 14, 1845), and Caroline (September 20, 1847). Abram, who had
                            migrated to Port Huron, 
                Michigan
              , from 
                Buffalo, New York
              , in 1835, died unexpectedly in
                            the fall of 1851, leaving Lavinia to raise five young children on her own. In 1853 she
                            married James Ard, a Canadian who, in the words of Hiram, "disliked work, was a
                            poor manager … who never lifted his hands to lighten the burdens that were thrown
                            upon her shoulders." James and Lavinia Ard had at least one child, James, who was
                            born about 1854. Martin makes a later reference in his reminiscences to "three
                            boys, half brothers," so there may have been more. If so, they are never
                            identified.
            
              6 camp Morton, located on the old state fairgrounds, had become the
                            rendezvous point for Indiana troops being mustered into federal service. The camp
                            "was well located, on high ground, with good drainage, a light and porous soil, an
                            abundance of excellent water, well shaded, with very comfortable buildings for
                            quarters." These same virtues made it an ideal location for a prisoner-of-war camp
                            also, and it was so utilized in the spring of 1862 when several thousand of the Confederate
                            soldiers captured at Fort Donelson were quartered there. Terrell, Report of the
                                Adjutant General, I, 456.
          
           and I was offered my discharge, but I would not accept it, as I
                    said that I was going down to the front, as that was what I enlisted for. It was while there that
                    1st Lt. Frank Stebbins informed me that I was appointed a Corporal.7 Our Capt.
                    was named Fosdick and was a Dentist by profession.8 Frank Stebbins 1st Lt and G
                    W Maloone 2d Lt. had both been in the three months service. We also had three or four more who were
                    Non Commissioned Officers that had been in the three months service.9
        
        "The city of 
            Indianapolis
           being the Center for the western troops especially the middle states, there was nothing
                    but preparations for war going on constantly, and it was more like a great military camp, as
                    Regiment after Regiment were constantly passing through to the front Finally our orders came, then
                    it began to seem a little more serious as up to this time it had been like a holiday, with the
                    exception of our drilling and a little Regimental Guard duty our labors were light. Our destination
                    was 
            Louisville
           first. From 
            Indianapolis
           we went to New 
            Albany
           thence by boat to 
            Louisville
           As we passed through 
            Louisville
           in our new uniforms and bright guns with old glory waving at our front the animosity of
                    the secession women was seen by their sluring remarks, about our being Lincolns hirelings. It so
                    angered Lt Stebbins that the answer he gave one of them sent her flying into the house. The men,
                    though rebels they were dare not say anything to us. We took the cars for 
            Bardstown

           Ky, or Camp Nevin rather on the L[ouisville] & N[ashville] RR where we encamped
                    for two or three 
            
              7 First Lieutenant Frank Stebbins of 
                La Porte
              , Indiana, was mustered in on August 27, 1861. He was commissioned first
                            lieutenant of Company G, 29th Indiana Volunteer Infantry, on September 10, 1861, and upon
                            the resignation of John S. Fosdick on May 16, 1862, he was made captain of his company. He
                            was killed in action at the Battle of Stone's River (
                Murfreesboro
              ) on December 31, 1862. Ibid., II, 285. According to the
                            adjutant general's report, Martin was mustered into service as a corporal on August
                            27, 1861, when the 29th Indiana was officially organized. Ibid., IV, 670.
            
              8 Captain John S. Fosdick of 
                La Porte

              , Indiana, was mustered in on August 27, 1861, and commissioned captain of
                            Company G, 29th Indiana Volunteer Infantry, on September 10, 1861. He resigned for
                            unspecified reasons on May 16, 1862, and was succeeded by Frank Stebbins. Ibid., 11, 285.
            
              9 Second Lieutenant George W. Maloon was mustered in on August 27,
                            1861. He, too, was a local boy from 
                La Porte

              , Indiana. Commissioned second lieutenant of Company G, 29th Indiana Volunteer
                            Infantry, on September 10, 1861, he was promoted to first lieutenant on May 16, 1862, when
                            Frank Stebbins moved up to captain, and himself became captain of the company when Stebbins
                            was killed six months later at Stone's River. Maloon continued to lead his company
                            until honorably discharged from service on November 16, 1864. Ibid., 11,
                            285–86. From the approximately twelve thousand Hoosiers who tendered their
                            services after 
                Lincoln
              's call for troops following Fort Sumter, Indiana initially organized
                            six regiments of three-month volunteers who were mustered into the service of the 
                United States

              . A few months later additional regiments were organized and accepted for
                            service—some for a period of twelve months, others for three years. When the
                            first six regiments' brief term of enlistment expired, the troops were asked to
                            reenlist for three years, and most of them did so. Ibid., I,
                            4–17; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1965), 125–26.
          
          
          
            HIRAM H. MARTIN, MAY, 1919, THREE MONTHS
              BEFORE HIS DEATH
            
            Courtesy Phyllis Dalton.
          
           weeks,10 and I well remember as we were on
                    open cars, and at night, how cautiously the train moved at one or two places and what great anxiety
                    existed among the boys as we expected a night attack, as the trains along there had been fired into
                    the day before.
        "We got through without a skirmish. The nights had begun to get quite cool and there was a
                    good frost that night. The most serious thing we did up to that time, and it is something that I
                    have forgotten to mention was our drilling. It was drill drill nearly all the time. It was laughable
                    to see how awkwerd some of the new recruits were. It seemed almost impossible for some of them to
                    learn to drill or become used to the manuel of arms. While I knew nothing about it before, it did
                    not come very hard for me, and I would not take a back seat for any one in our company, in drilling
                    It was my first introduction to southern soil. The first I had seen of slave labor. I soon noticed
                    the diffirence between the farms and buildings of the north and those of the south. The out
                    buildings, fences, and general appearance of their plantations were slovenly, and looked uncared
                    for. Labor that was controled by the lash was not like the free labor of the north, it had its
                    blighting effect upon every thing it touched. Although of course there were many pretty places
                    there.
        "The main portion of Genl Buels army, to which we belonged, lay at Mumfordsville on Green
                    River Confronting the Rebel Genl. [Simon Bolivar] Buckners Army at 
            Bowling Green
          . I was sick at 
            Bardstown
          , or Camp Nevin but started with the Regt for Mumfordsville, where we arived about 3
                    oclock in the afternoon, and remember that there were several Native unionists there who gave cheer
                    after cheer as we marched by. We marched to our Camping ground, but while waiting for the baggage
                    wagons with our tents the long roll beat to arms, and as the boys grabed their guns and fell in,
                    they began to realize that we were near the scene of conflict, and a trembling was noticeable in
                    some. But it must be remembered that many of them were like my self only boys of 18 years of age,
                    and many of them knew nothing of the use of arms. The cause of the alarm was an attack on the picket
                    line, consisting of a 
            German

           Regt. posted on the southern side of the River. Our camp was on the north side. The
                    enemy Consisted of about 5,000 inf[antr]y, Cavia[r]y, & artillery. Our Regt with many others
                    was ordered across the River, and with the aid of several Batteries of heavy Artillery, which were
                    planted on the north bank, the ‘rebs’ were put to flight, leaving twice as
                    many dead on the field as were 
            
              10 The 29th Indiana arrived at Camp Nevin on October 9, 1861, and
                            remained there until sometime in December when it left to join General Don Carlos
                            Buell's army at Munfordville. Frederick H. Dyer, A Compendium of the
                                War of the Rebellion (3 vols., 
                New York
              , 1959), III, 1130.
          
           killed of our troops. This was our first taste of real war, and
                    I guess most of our boys remembered it as long as they lived.11
        
        "The army was concentrating there [Munfordville], for a forward movement upon 
            Bowling Green
          .

        "A Genl. Wood Commanded our Brigade. He was small, and one of the most profane men I ever
                        knew.12 Genl. Alex D. McCook comanded the Division.13
                    The Brigade was composed of our Regt. (the 29th Ind.,) the 30th Ind.; the 77th Penna & the
                    34th 
            Ohio
          
          14 Our disagreeable duty there, was picket duty. I remember one
                    night when we were stationed on the banks of Green River, a storm came up. We were in the woods, and
                    it was so dark that it was impossible to see your hand before you, and it was only by the flashes of
                    the lighting that we could see any thing. I, as Corporal had charge of that Post, and was the only
                    one who had a watch. It got a little lighter towards morning and about 1 oclock I loaned my watch,
                    to a soldier, by the name of Hank Dunn and posted him.15 Then I laid down, and
                    told him to wake me in two hours as he had just been asleep for some time. I fell asleep and when I
                    was awakened by Dunn I thought the time was awful short, but he lit a 
            
              11 The fighting that Martin describes here took place on December 17,
                            1861, and was officially designated the "Action at Rowlett's Station
                            (Woodsonville), Green River, Ky." The "
                German
               Regt" on picket duty south of the Green River was Colonel August
                            Willich's 32nd Indiana Volunteers (
                German

              ). They were attacked by a force of about 1,400 men—infantry,
                            cavalry, and artillery—under Confederate Brigadier General Thomas C. Hindman, who
                            had moved toward Woodsonville for the purpose of breaking up the railroad over which General
                            Buell's army would have to advance if it decided to move south. After a brief but
                            fierce encounter the Confederates withdrew, having suffered 14 casualtied—4
                            killed and 10 wounded. Losses among the 400 or so men of the 32nd Indiana actually engaged
                            in the fighting were 11 killed, 22 wounded, and 5 missing. While several regiments of Union
                            soldiers had crossed the river to reinforce Willich's pickets, none of them reached
                            the scene of the fighting until after the enemy had been put to flight. As a "first
                            taste of real war," this was an exciting event for the men on both sides; all too
                            soon, however, "actions" such as this one at Rowlett's Station
                            would barely rate a mention in their letters home. U. S., War Department, The
                                War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                                Armies (128 vols., 
                Washington

              , D. C., 1880–1901), ser. 1, vol. VII, pp. 14–21. This
                            work is hereafter cited as Official Records.
            
              12 Brigadier General Thomas John Wood (1823–1906) commanded
                            a brigade consisting of the 34th 
                Illinois
              , the 29th and 30th Indiana, and the 77th 
                Pennsylvania
              . Wood is perhaps best remembered as the general who, by a strict adherence to
                            his orders, knowingly left a gap in the Union line at 
                Chickamauga

              , allowing General James Longstreet's Confederates to pour through and
                            turn the Union right flank. Ibid., 460; Peter Cozzens, This
                                Terrible Sound: The Battle of 
                  Chickamauga
                
               (
                Urbana
              , 1992), 363.
            
              13 Brigadier General Alexander McDowell McCook (1831–1903)
                            commanded one of the two large five-brigade divisions in Buell's army. The other
                            large division was commanded by Brigadier General George Henry Thomas, the "Rock of 
                Chickamauga
              ." Official Records, ser. 1, vol. VII, p. 467.
            
              14 Martin is mistaken here. His regiment was brigaded with the 34th
                                
                
                  Illinois
                
              , not the 34th 
                
                  Ohio
                
              .
            
              15 Private Henry Dunn of 
                La Porte

              , Indiana, was mustered in on August 27, 1861, and discharged for disability on
                            May 20, 1862. The records do not indicate the nature of his disability. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, IV, 671.
          
           match and showed me by the watch that the two hours were up. I
                    said nothing, but went on duty & towards morning I found that there was something the matter
                    with the watch. When I saw the other pickets I found that my watch was over an hour fast. This Dunn
                    who was an arrant Coward, and a great wag, had turned my watch around in order to shorten his duty.
                    Thereafter he went by the name of Timer
        
        "I remember another time while on picket we found an old Jack ass and we had lots of fun
                    riding up and down the road on him. Several Genls, came along at that time and found the four or
                    five non Commissioned Officers at our Post, and none of us were on guard, but had our belts off, and
                    guns laying some distance from us. They gave us a lecture on the duties of soldiers, while on
                    picket, but blamed our officers more than they did us. Sweet potatoes suffered at that picket post
                    as there was a patch of them very near us.
        "Every one dreaded picket on the other side of the river, for when we left camp in the
                    morning it was only a guess as to whether we would return alive or not; besides the weather was
                    beginning to get cold, and rainy. It was a mixture of wind snow & frost, and the soft side
                    of a rail was our only bed, if we wanted to sleep, and keep out of the mud.

        "This picket duty and drilling constantly were our tasks for some weeks. During most all of
                    this time I had quite a severe cough; so much so, that when drilling, I would get to coughing so
                    when we were double quicking, that I would fall from exhaustion out of the ranks. I had to make a
                    good many calls upon the Dr. I was troubled with Diarrhoea considerably, and had an attack of
                    Intermittent fever. But the climax came about Jan. 1st [1862] when one day I was on duty as Corporal
                    of the Guard. The duty of the Corporal was to place the guard on picket around the camp, and see
                    that they attended to their duties and if any thing should happen, or one of the guards wanted to be
                    relieved, or any one wanted to get in or out, the guard wold sing out, ‘Corporal of the guard, beat no. so & so,’
                    and this call would be passed from one guard to the other until the Corporal put in an appearance.

        "Along in the afternoon of this day, I got so sick that I could not attend to duty, and was
                    relieved, and went to my tent, which was a large Sibley tent, where the non Commissioned officers
                        slept16 I commenced vomiting in the night, and by morning I was unconcious,
                    and was carried on a stretcher to the Regimental Hospital which was a large square tent. For three
                    days I knew nothing, 
            
              16 The Sibley tent, named for its inventor, Major (later Confederate
                            Brigadier General) Henry Hopkins, was conical in shape and easily erected on a tripod
                            holding a single pole. It could comfortably house twelve soldiers along with their
                            equipment. Mark Mayo Boatner III, The Civil War Dictionary (
                New York
              , 1988), 760.
          
           and remembered nothing. The first day that I rememberd any thing
                    was, when they got me up to fix my bunk, and the care and nursing being none too gentle, I thought I
                    should surely die before they got me in bed again. It seemed that my head would split open, and I
                    coughed continually, and raised considerable phlegm
        "I remained there I think a week or so, and was so sick that they transferred me to the
                    general Hospital at Mumfordsville My disease was diagnosed as Pneumonia. This Hospital was formerly
                    used as a Tobacco warehouse, and there were perhaps 100 cots on the floor I was on. Dead Comrades
                    were being constantly removed and others patients talking [taking] their places. I continued to be
                    very ill and weak for some time When the Army was moved forward to the front, all of the sick at
                    Mumfordsville were sent back to 
            Louisville
           Ky, and I with the rest. I went and was put in Genl. Hospital No 4 where I remained
                    until about May 1st. I still remained very ill; had a terrible Cough, my right chest was sunk in and
                    I had the appearance of a man with the Consumption. The care received there was fair, but it was not
                    very cheering to wake up in the morning and find your nearest bunk mate had died during the night
                    and had been carried out but such was the case many times.
        "The dead were being carried out and the dying brought in.17 I have now
                    in my Secretary a testament given by a lady who was distributing gifts from the North. We had in our
                    ward two Sisters of Chairity who were very faithful but I never got so tired in my life of toast and
                    tea as I did there. When the Doctors saw that I was getting no better they gave me a furlough to go
                    home, but I come near dying getting there. I Remember that I was cared for in 
            Indianapolis

           at a Hotel and from there I went to LaPorte Indiana. My old friend Ed Westcott got a
                    carriage and took me down to Mrs. Merrills. God bless her old heart. She was a mother to me then
                    & a noble woman. I know she is reaping her rich reward in heaven."18
        

        In poor health from the very beginning of his enlistment, Martin was declared unfit for further duty
                    with the army as a result of 
            
              17 Martin is not exaggerating here. The official records show that,
                            during the period from November, 1861, to March, 1862—a period in which no major
                            engagements were fought—the 29th Indiana Volunteers had thirty-four men die of
                            sickness and disease. Most of them died either at Camp Nevin or at General Hospital No. 4 in 
                Louisville

              . Martin was fortunate to have survived that first winter. Many of his comrades
                            did not. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, VIII, 487–91.
            
              18 Martin had become acquainted with the Westcott and Merrill families
                            shortly after his family moved to 
                La Porte
               in the fall of 1860. Mrs. Merrill, a widow with three children, owned a farm
                            that she rented out to a young man named Charles Westcott. Martin hired out to work for
                            Charles Westcott for ten dollars a month. At the Merrills' he met
                            Charles's brother, Ed, a schoolteacher who worked on the farm between teaching
                            jobs. Martin's mother had died in 1861 just before Martin went off to war; thus,
                            when he returned to 
                La Porte
               in 1862 in need of looking after, it was his "old friend" Ed
                            Westcott who picked him up and carried him to Mrs. Merrill who nursed him back to
                        health.
          
           his severe bout of pneumonia. On June 24, 1862, he received a
                    medical discharge. Returning to 
            La Porte
          , he began the long, slow road to recovery. His days of fighting for the Union seemed to
                    be over almost before they got started. As his health gradually improved, he worked at various jobs
                    in northern Illinois and, with a friend, took a farm in the 
            La Porte
           area "to work on shares." By the following spring, however, he had
                    had enough of farming—"have never done any since," he told his
                    daughters—and when a friend of his suggested that they go to 
            Chicago
           and enlist in the Navy, he jumped at the opportunity.
        SERVICE AFLOAT
        
        "… in April [1863] went to 
            Chicago

          , and in company with a friend, Robt. Wheeler, enlisted as first class fireman at a
                    salary of $30.00 per month, in the Missippi Squadron19 I knew nothing
                    about the business, but my friend did and he pursuaded [me] to do so. We went to Cairo Ills and was
                    put aboard the Receiving ship Clara Dalson,20 and from there we were put aboard
                    the Gun Boat Hastings just fitted up. It was what was called a mosquito boat, only protected against
                        bullets.21 The Chief Engineer was Mr Watson an old River Engineer, and a
                    very fine man. He died in the summer while near 
            Vicksburg
          . I was with him the night before he died.

        "The boat was hardly in condition for service and the crew consisted mostly of green men
                    unaccustomned to sirvice of that kind. We were ordered up the Tenn. River, and started immediately
                    for Paducah Ky. where we left the Ohio River, and steamed up the Tenn. On the
                    second night out while opposite Green Bottom Bar, Tenn. and about 1 oclock, I had just gone off duty
                    and turned in 
            
              19 Organized originally as the Western Flotilla, the Mississippi River
                            force of wooden and iron-clad gunboats was assigned the important task of assisting the
                            Union Army in opening up the Mississippi River and its navigable tributaries to northern
                            military and civilian commerce—and of denying the same to the South. To avoid
                            problems of command between naval and army officers, the Western Flotilla was officially
                            assigned to the control of the Navy Department on October 1, 1862, and was thereafter known
                            as the Mississippi Squadron. Francis Trevelyan Miller, ed., The Photographic
                                History of the Civil War (1911–1912; 10 vols. in 5, 
                New York
              , 1957), VI, 214.
            
              20 The Clara Dolson was a 268-foot side-wheel
                            steamer that had been confiscated on the White River in Arkansas in June, 1862. Its armament
                            consisted of one 32-pounder. After participating in the expedition to recapture
                                    
                Henderson, Kentucky
              , in July, 1862, the Clara
                                Dolson served as a receiving ship at Cairo, 
                Illinois
              , until a court ordered it returned to her owners in May, 1864. Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships (8 vols., 
                Washington
              , D. C., 1959–1981), II, 122.
            
              21 The Hastings was a small wooden gunboat that had
                            originally operated as a river transport out of 
                Cincinnati, Ohio

              .
                            Only 173 feet long and 34 feet at the beam, it was armed with eight guns—two
                            30-pounders, two 32-pounders, and four 24-pounders. The Hastings was
                            fitted out at Cairo, 
                Illinois

              , and was ready for service in April, 1863. Its first commanding officer was
                            Acting Master W. N. Griswold, and her first assignment was patrolling the Tennessee River.
                                Ibid., III, 269.
          
           my hammock which was swinging over a 24-pound Dahlgreen gun,
                    when boom boom came shots from the shore.22 The long roll beat to quarters and
                    there was some falling and tumbling out of hammocks. I had no more than gotten mine down, when that
                    gun was needed. Business Commenced in earnest. A Battery of Rebel Genl [Nathan 
            Bedford
          ] For[r]est on shore, was peppering it into us hot and heavy. Our boat commenced turning
                    around so that the guns, first on one side and then the other could be used. Several shots had been
                    put through our boat.
        "I was making my way forward where there were two 32 pound parrot rifle guns.23 The one on the port side was being used at the time and just as I got near the forward
                    end of the bulk head, a shell filled with iron balls came through on the port side, struck the gun
                    on the starboard side, and exploded Pieces of shell took an arm apiece off three of the young men
                    who shipped when I did at 
            Chicago
          . Before I had passed the bulk head one of the balls that had about spent itself glanced
                    off the Casement and struck me, on the shoulder without breaking the skin. Two steps further at the
                    time of the explosion, and I would not be here writing this account of our engagement, as I would
                    have been torn to pieces. The only way we could see to tell where the rebs were, was by the flash of
                    their guns, as it [was] very dark. but we were a good target for them as they Could see the lights
                    from our furnaces and on the boat.

        "In about 3/4 of an hour we had silenced their Battery, and then we continued on up the
                    river. Our casualities besides the three young men were several Cannon shot through our boat, but
                    all above water line The berth deck was splintered up Considerabie.24
        

        "The second morning after this incident, we heard fireing ahead, and we crowded on all
                    steam, when we found the Gun boat Tyler, one of the wooden boats that did such good execution at Pittsburg Landing, engaged in defending the Miss River Marine 
            
              22 Invented by John A. Dahlgren, an ordnance officer in the U. S.
                            Navy, the Dahlgren gun was used primarily by that branch of the service. Thicker at the
                            breech and tapering rapidly near the muzzle, the Dahlgren was easily recognizable by its
                            bottle-shaped profile. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 218.
            
              23 Unlike Dahlgren, whose gun was cast in one piece and then turned
                            down to the desired shape, R. B. Parrott, an ordnance officer in the U. S. Army, utilized a
                            separate, heavy, wrought-iron band that was heat shrunk around the breech to reinforce it
                            against the heavy pressures generated there. This heavy band also made the Parrott easily
                            recognizable. Parrott guns were used extensively by both the army and the navy. Ibid., 621.
            
              24 The crew's baptism of fire, as described in detail here by
                            Martin, occurred on April 24, 1863, as the Hastings steamed near Green
                            Bottom Bar. Attacked by Confederate guerrillas, the gunboat turned to and gave battle,
                            forcing the enemy to withdraw. The Hastings was shot through the hull
                            seven times in the action and, as Martin correctly recalled, suffered three casualties. Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, III, 269.
          
          
          
            GUN CREW
              OF DAHLGREN GUN
              AT DRILL, 1864
            Courtesy National Archives, 
                Washington
              , D. C.
          
           Brigade, which consisted of five steamers, that carried Cavalry
                    and light howetzers for the purposes of fighting Gurrillas.

        "It proved to be the same rebel Battery that engaged us, and if it had not been for the
                    Tyler, and our boat, it would have gone hard with the Brigade.25 Several of the
                    rebels were Killed in this engagement, and the Cavalry was put ashore and pursued the rebels quite a
                    distance We learned from a prisoner captured there that we killed six, and wounded about eighteen of
                    the rebels the night they engaged us alone.
        "We patrolled the Tenn. River from Eastport to the mouth for a month or so then went down
                    the Miss. River, after getting repaired at Cairo. Our beat [boat] patrolled along by Ft Pillow, to
                    Memhis and below. Commodore Phelps, afterwards a Commissioner of the Dist. of 
            Columbia

           was on our boat one day and charged one of the guns with grape and canister and leveled
                    it at a flock of geese on the shore, and at one discharge, brought down nine geese.26 Wild geese were in great abundance along in that vicinity The one we got for our, (the
                    firemens) mess was a fine one and I thought at the time that it was the most toothsome morsal I had
                    ever eaten. One reason, no doubt was, that we had been living for a long time on 'salt
                    horse,’ [salted beef] as it was called in the navy Our rations in the navy were better
                    than in the army as a general thing. One thing it was better cooked and the meals 
            
              25 Converted to a river gunboat in June, 1861, the 180-foot side-wheel
                            steamer Tyler participated in most of the major river campaigns of the
                            war, including Belmont, Forts Henry and Donelson, 
                Shiloh
               (Pittsburg Landing), 
                Vicksburg
              , and the invasion of 
                Arkansas
              . In between, the boat performed routine patrol and escort duty on the
                                    
                Tennessee, Cumberland

              , and Mississippi
                            rivers during which it was frequently called upon to engage the enemy with its
                            one 32-pounder and its six 8-inch guns. Martin describes one of those engagements here. Ibid., VII, 376–77. The Mississippi River Marine Brigade was
                            really a misnomer. The brigade was actually composed of troops commanded by an army
                            lieutenant colonel, Alfred D. Ellet. Ellet's "marines" were
                            organized in the fall of 1862 after the navy, citing lack of manpower, turned down Admiral
                            David Porter's request for an authentic marine brigade to work with the Mississippi
                            Squadron in keeping the rivers clear of guerrillas. The Mississippi River Marine Brigade
                            resembled a modern "task force" and included elements of infantry,
                            artillery, and cavalry—all transported aboard a small fleet of packet boats. The
                            brigade performed excellent service until 1864 when it was disbanded—some say
                            because of Ellet's refusal to transfer the ships and men under his command to the
                            navy and to recognize the authority of the admiral in command of the Mississippi Squadron.
                            Robert Debs Heinl, Jr., Soldiers of the Sea: The 
                  United States
                 Marine Corps, 1775–1962 (
                Annapolis
              , 1962), 77–78.
            
              26 Lieutenant Commander Seth Ledyard Phelps entered the U. S. Navy as
                            a midshipman in 1841 at the age of seventeen. A career naval officer, Phelps was given
                            command of the gunboat Conestoga when war broke out between the North and
                            the South. Soon after he was promoted to lieutenant commander. Recognized for his skillful
                            management of the capture of Fort Henry, he was placed in command of a small fleet of
                            gunboats and given responsibility for the Tennessee River line. In 1864 he commanded the Eastport in General Nathaniel P. Bank's Red River campaign. After
                            the war Phelps was appointed one of the commissioners of the 
                District of Columbia
               by President Ulysses S. Grant. He died in 1885. National
                                Cyclopaedia of American Biography (
                New York
              , 1904), XII, 358–59.
          
          
          
            Map by Graphic Arts Department, Audio-visual Center, Indiana University, 
                Bloomington
              .
          
           were regular. About a month before the fall of 
            Vicksburg

          , July 4th 1863, we were ordered there, where we remained until after the fall of that
                    stronghold. We witnessed the seige of that doomed place, and night after night the shells from [Rear
                    Admiral David Dixon] Porters Mortor fleet could be seen as they left the mortor and burst over the
                    place. We participated in some of the exercises We were at Milikens Bend [Milliken's Bend,
                    La.] near Admiral Porter's flag ship Black Hawk.27
        
        "In June we were sent up the White River to Balls Bluff from where the army started to
                    attack 
            Vicksburg
           in the rear. Did not get quite to 
            Little Rock
          . We also went up the Arkansas river and one of our boys came near getting killed by a
                    bush[wh]acker. We were often ordered ashore to scout around through the Country. While it was not my
                    business to do any of this, at every opportunity I got I would go ashore with the crew &
                    carry a musket. I came near getting lost in the cane breake a few miles above 
            Vicksburg
          . When the whistle of the boat blew for us to Return I was going in the opposite
                    direction. It was quite a treat for one to get ashore and when I did so at 
            Memphis
          , Natchese, or 
            Vicksburg
          , I enjoyed it very much

        "I think, about Oct. we were sent up the Tenn River to Eastport, where Genl. [William
                    Tecumseh] Shermans army was crossing on their way to Chatanooga to the releif of that place.25 We assisted in crossing Shermans entire army. There, for the first time I saw
                    Genl. W. T. Sherman, who was tall and rather thin. After this we returned down the river, and along
                    in [the] latter part of Dec. most of the crew were transferred to the Receiving Ship Clara Dalson,
                    and the Hastings was laid up at Cairo or Mound City for repairs.29 I remained on
                    the Dalson until March I think. During the winter I was treated for Bronchitas and Catarrh My left
                    eye troubled me considerably at this time.

        "During the winter the balance of the Hastings crew were brought aboard the Dalson, and in
                    Feby I think, we were all transferred to the Gun Boat Ouachita, which was the largest Gun boat on
                    the Mississipi. Her sides and bulk heads were only protected against bullets, but was 3/4 inch iron
                    on front, and a shot from a 
            
              27 Originally built in New 
                Albany
              , Indiana, in 1848, the Black Hawk was a 260-foot side-wheel
                            steamer commissioned in December, 1862, at Cairo, 
                Illinois

              . Armed with four 32-pounder smoothbores, two 30-pounder rifles, one 12-pounder
                            smoothbore, and one 12-pounder rifle, the boat served most of the war as flagship for Rear
                            Admirals David Dixon Porter and Samuel Phillips Lee, successive commanders of the
                            Mississippi Squadron. Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, I, 128.
            
              28 Again Martin's memory served him well.
                            "… [the Hastings] arrived at East-port, Miss., 26
                            October 1863 to assist General Sherman's troops in crossing the river during
                            operations culminating in the Battle of 
                Chattanooga
               … ." Ibid., III, 269.
            
              29 "In need of repairs, Hastings returned
                            to the Naval Station at Cairo 16 December [1863]." Ibid.
          
          
          
            HIRAM H. MARTIN SERVED ABOARD
              THE
              OUACHITA
              
              FROM FEBRUARY
              TO APRIL, 1864.
            Courtesy Minnesota Historical Society, 
                St. Paul
              .
          
          
          
            THE
              FORT HINDMAN
              , FLAGSHIP
              FOR COMMANDER
              OF
              THE OUACHITA RIVER EXPEDITION
            
          
          
            THE
              BLACK HAWK
              , FLAGSHIP
              FOR COMMANDERS
              OF
              THE MISSISSIPPI SQUADRON
              FOR MOST
              OF
              THE CIVIL WAR
            
            Courtesy Massachusetts Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal Legion, and U. S. Army
                            Military History Institute, 
                Carlisle
               Barracks, 
                Pennsylvania
              .
          
           six lb cannon would glance from this casement We carried 32
                    [pound?] cannon. The boat was formerly a large Transport and was captured from the rebels up the
                    Ouachita River Besides Guns on the main decks there were three on the Hurricane deck.30 We immediately steamed down the river, and went clear to 
            New Orleans

          , but did not remain there long enough to get ashore. We came back to the mouth of the
                    Red river, … [and from there up the Black and Ouachita rivers].31
                    March 1st we were engaged in shelling the woods along banks of the Black river from which the rebels
                    made an attack with musketry. M[ar]ch 2d we were engaged in shelling Gurrillas Concealed in woods
                    along Ouachita river Also repulsed an attack of a battery at Harrisonburg La, which was fortified
                    into a Fort. At this place we sent the rebels flying over the hill out of the reach of our guns. It
                    was breakfast time and those who went ashore said that the ‘Johnnies’ left
                    there tables all spread and breakfast partially eaten. They gave us quite a stiff fight One of our
                    men was shot through the head and died immediately, and another through the side but recovered. The
                    flag ship was disabled, and floated down the river and the Comodore came aboard our boat.32 We were hit several times. It was not my business to do it but I assisted in
                    manning a gun, and received the compliments of the Captain Byron Wilson.33 I
                    wanted an opportunity to give them a parting shot as they were skedadling away.
        
          
            30 A new addition to the Union gunboat fleet, the Ouachita was a 227-foot side-wheeler with four 30-pounder army Parrott rifles, one
                        30-pounder navy Parrott rifle, eight 24-pounders, and one 12-pounder rifle. Formerly the
                        Confederate side-wheel steamer 
              
                Louisville
              

            , it had been captured in the Little Red River in Louisiana on July 13, 1863, and
                        commissioned as the Union gunboat Ouachita on January 18, 1864, at Cairo, 
              Illinois
            . Ibid., V, 189.
          
            31 This is one of the few times that Martin's memory failed him.
                        In his narrative he recalled that the expedition up the Red River in support of General
                        Nathaniel P. Banks took place during "the latter part of Feby" and a
                        cotton-collecting expedition up the Black River during the first week of March. Official
                        sources, however, make it clear that the foray up the Black River that took place during the
                        first few days of March came while Porter's command was awaiting word to proceed up the
                        Red River, which did not come until the second week in March. In a dispatch to the secretary of
                        the navy dated March 2, 1864, Porter wrote: "I came down here [to the mouth of the Red
                        River] anticipating a move on the part of the army up toward Shreveport, but as the river is
                        lower than it has been known to be for years, I much fear that the combined movement can not
                        come off … In the meantime the gunboats are up the Atchafalaya and Black rivers
                        destroying bridges and stores … ." See U. S., Navy Department, Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion (30
                        vols., 
              Washington
            , D. C., 1894–1922), ser. 1, vol. XXVI, p. 7. This transposition of
                        events has been corrected in the text in order to present the account in proper chronological
                        order.
          
            32 The flagship Martin refers to here was the Fort
                        Hindman, a 150-foot side-wheel steamer carrying six 8-inch guns, which served as the
                        flagship of Lieutenant Commander Frank M. Ramsey, the commander of this expedition up the
                        Ouachita River. At 10:30 a. m. on March 3, 1864, a shot from a Confederate battery at
                        Harrisonburg struck the starboard engine of the Fort Hindmun, disabling it and
                        forcing Ramsey to remove his flag to the Ouachita. Ibid., ser. 1, vol. XXVI,
                        p. 783.
          
            33 Byron Wilson was lieutenant commander of the Ouachita, on which Martin
        
        
        "We also on this day, shelled the town of Trinity La. On the 4th of this month we also
                    repulsed an attack made from the woods along the banks of the Black River. We steamed farther up the
                    river and beyond where there had been a railroad bridge burned that crossed the river The road I
                    think ran from 
            Memphis
           in to La. We stopped at a large plantation where we heard they had a quantity of Cotton
                    stored back in the woods about a half a mile, in great piles. We pressed into the service all of the
                    darkies and old mules and carts we could get and had them haul the cotton to the banks of the river,
                    and the crew loaded two or three empty coal barges that we had with us besides filling in between
                    the decks.
        "I had quite a time one evening there, after dark in trying to get a 
            Turkey

           aboard that I had captured It was strictly against orders to bring any thing aboard of
                    a contraband nature After a good deal of manuvering and hiding behind Cotton bales I succeeded and
                    our mess had a feast of turkey, and you may be sure that we all did justice to the occasion. We then
                    returned down the river without meeting with any thing of importance except at one place where we
                    saw the French flag floating over a house and a Frenchman put out to us in a boat, hailed the Capt.
                    and tried to claim the Cotton we had The Capt told him that would not go down with him, and that if
                    he, the Frenchman, did not mind his own business he would put him under arrest as he was in the
                    enemys Country trying to Conceal Cotton. Cotton in those days was worth big money In 1865 I received
                    over $100.00 as prize money for the cotton we took up this river.34
        
        

          was a fireman. Wilson was later among those cited by Rear Admiral David D. Porter as
                        "having zealously performed everything required of them with an ability deserving of
                        the highest praise" in his report on the Red River campaign. Ibid.,
                        ser. 1, vol. XXVI, p., 77.
          
            34 At least one authority believed that cotton rather than sound military
                        strategy was what lay behind the Red River campaign. "It may as well be pointed out at
                        once," wrote H. Allen Gosnell in his study, Guns on the Western Waters:
                            The Story of River Gunboats in the Civil War (
              Baton Rouge
            , 1949), 246–47, "that there was a very unsavory odor attached
                        to this Red River expedition. With all the existing evidence there can be little doubt that some
                        prominent party or parties on the opposing sides were in cahoots with each other, the object
                        being to sell Southern cotton through Northern civilian dealers. By such a procedure the
                        Northern armed forces would be collecting Southern cotton for transport and sale, its owners
                        would be reimbursed in due course, and the furtherance of the rebellion would thus be assisted.
                        Ordinarily the Federal forces were not in a position to seize much cotton and carry it off for
                        condemnation. When they did take any privately owned cotton or other valuable property the usual
                        procedure was to give receipts for it payable after the close of hostilities. Confederate
                        government property was of course seized outright or destroyed. Most of the suspicious-looking
                        events [such as just happening to have ‘two or three empty coal barges’
                        along when a cache of cotton was discovered?] which came to pass in connection with the Red
                        River affair certainly appear to be part of the cotton-collecting plan. Something, at any rate,
                        brought about several moves which seem very peculiar from a military standpoint. Be it said to
                        the credit of practically every rank and file on both sides, however, there was no pulling of
                        punches when any fighting took place."
        
        
        "We came back to the mouth of the Red river, where the fleet was assembling and getting
                    ready to accompany Genl. [Nathaniel P.] Banks Army up the Red River … [On 12 March 1864]
                    we started up the Red River leading a fleet of about twenty boats. Ft. De Russy La. had just been
                    taken by the army. We were the first to reach 
            Alexandria
           La. which was being evacuated by the rebels. Some of the rebel boats were steaming up
                    the river above the falls where we could not go, but we sent a few solid shot after them Two small
                    rebell transports had been set on fire to prevent them from falling into our hands and they came
                    floating down the river
        "There were a few rebels at 
            Alexandria

           who were inclined to give us trouble, and they fired into us, but we opened a broad
                    side on them, when the Mayor came to the Levee with a flag of truce, and he was ordered aboard where
                    he surrendered the town. Our boat with four others that drew more water than could get above the
                    bar, were ordered down the river to the Miss. again … .35
        
        "We steamed into the 
            Mississippi

          , and lay near the mouth of the Red river waiting for the return of the Red River
                    expedition My time, one years enlistment being out and fifteen days over, as well as several who had
                    enlisted when I did, we were discharged and paid off, and we took the Mail boat Genl. Lyon for
                        Cairo.36 Nothing of importance occurred on this trip, except, I rember the
                    burial of some one from the boat on a little Island near the middle of the night, and it was a
                    solemn & weird procession with lanterns and torches burning. It put me in mind of the
                    account of the burial of Sir John Moore.37
        
        "From Cairo two sailors who shipped with me at 
            Chicago
           but were boatswains mates on the iron Clad Chactaw traveled with me back to 
            Chicago
          .38
        
        
          
            35 The rest of Porter's gunboat fleet continued on up the Red
                        River toward Shreveport in support of Banks's army, which was supposedly moving by land
                        toward the same objective. By April 10, Porter had pushed up the river to within thirty miles of
                        Shreveport only to find that Banks had not made it, having been stopped by Confederate forces at
                        the Battle of Sabine Cross Roads two days before. There was nothing for Porter to do but to
                        fight his way back down the river. Battling both Confederates and low water, he finally was able
                        to extricate his fleet but not without great difficulty and not without the loss of both men and
                        ships. The campaign had lasted over two months and had accomplished absolutely nothing
                        militarily. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 685–89.
          
            36 Captured from the Confederates in April, 1862, at Island No. 10, the
                            General Lyon, built at New 
              Albany

            , Indiana, in 1860, was used extensively by the Mississippi Squadron as an ordnance,
                        stores, and dispatch ship. Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, III,
                        50.
          
            37 Sir John Moore (1761–1809), British general, was killed at
                        the Battle of Corunna (
              Spain

            ) during the Peninsular Campaign against Napoleon. Struck by a cannonball on the
                        left shoulder, he died in the moment of victory as British troops successfully beat back the
                        French attack. He was buried in a soldier's grave early the next morning. David S.
                        Chandler, The Campaigns of Napoleon (
              New York
            , 1966), 656–57.
          
            38 Built at New 
              Albany
            , Indiana, in 1863, the Choctaw was a 1,004-ton ironclad ram that
                        had served with the Ouachita in the Red River campaign. Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, II, 113.
        
        
        
          ALEXANDRIA, LOUISIANA, ON
            THE RED RIVER
          
        
        
          THE FEDERAL FLEET TRAPPED
            BY LOW WATER
            AT ALEXANDRIA'S WHARF
          
          Courtesy Massachusetts Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal Legion, and U. S. Army Military
                        History Institute, 
              Carlisle
             Barracks, 
              Pennsylvania
            .
        
        
        "During my year in the Navy I saw a great deal of the Southern Country. My salary was
                    $30.00 per month and rations, and at the end of the year I had nearly
                    $300.00"
        EPILOGUE
        
        Returning to 
            La Porte
          , Martin tried his hand at selling books for awhile, then went to work in a sawmill
                    above Saginaw, 
            Michigan
          . But for some reason he just could not stay away from the war. In March, 1865, he hired
                    out to the military railroad and spent the last two months of the war running supplies between
                            
            Nashville, Tennessee
          , and Stevenson, 
            Alabama
          . He was in 
            Nashville
           when Robert E. Lee surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant at 
            Appomattox
           Court House in 
            Virginia
          .
        Martin's adventures, however, did not end with the war. In May, 1865, he headed west for the
                    gold fields of 
            Montana
          , where he spent the next three years panning for gold, punching cattle, and working in
                    a silver mine, In May, 1868, he took the overland stage to 
            San Francisco
           where he caught a ship bound for 
            Panama
           on his way to 
            New York City
           by way of the 
            Panama
           Railroad across the isthmus. Returning to 
            Chicago
           in June, 1868, Martin married and settled down to the business of raising a family. In
                    the spring of 1877 he was offered a job in 
            Washington
          , D. C., with the Office of the Commissary General. He accepted and very shortly moved
                    his family to the nation's capital. Eventually he was transferred to the Quartermaster
                    General's Office where he apparently came in contact with a number of important people for
                    he kept and preserved what has turned out to be one of the most prized possessions of his
                    descendants—an autograph book containing the original signatures of five presidents of
                    the 
            United States
           (Ulysses S. Grant, R#2 B. Hayes, James A. Garfield, C#2 A. Arthur, and Grover 
            Cleveland
          ), a number of well-known generals (Philip H. Sheridan, Winfield S. Hancock, George W.
                    Schofield, Oliver O. Howard, Nathaniel P. Banks, John Pope, and Confederate General Joseph E.
                    Johnston among others), and numerous senators, congressmen, and heads of departments (including John
                    Sherman of 
            Ohio
          , Benjamin Hill of 
            Georgia
          , Roscoe Conkling of 
            New York
          , and James G. Blaine of 
            Maine
          ). It is a fitting testimony to Martin's keen sense of history.
        To the end of his life Hiram H. Martin continued to believe that he had not done anything in his
                    lifetime worthy of "especial commendation." Perhaps that is so. He certainly had
                    had some interesting experiences, however, and he certainly must have looked back with especial
                    pride on his years of service afield and afloat when, as "an ardent Union boy," he
                    had participated in some of the most significant events in his country's history.
      
      
      
        Book Reviews
        
          ⋆Wendell Willkie: Hoosier Internationalist. Edited by James H.
                    Madison. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. xxiii, 184. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic
                    essay, index. $19.95.)
        
          Wendell Willkie: Hoosier Internationalist is a remarkable and useful compilation of
                    essays from several standpoints. Prepared to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of
                    Willkie's birth, the book contains a series of thoughtful and well-written essays from
                    scholars in the 
            United States, France
          , and the Russian Federation, the purpose of which is to explore
                    Willkie's legacy to the world. The volume is an excellent introduction to
                    Willkie's career for those who do not know him, a solid summary of the historical
                    scholarship on Willkie, and an important contribution to the literature for those who are familiar
                    with him. Furthermore, the essays are valuable not only as an exploration of Willkie's
                    career but also for the insight they provide into the ways historians and biographers explain the
                    lives and actions of politicians.
        Born in 
            Elwood
          , Indiana, in 1892, Willkie was both a contradiction and confirmation of some of the
                    stereotypes of a Hoosier politician. The subtitle of the book suggests that there was something
                    unique about being a "Hoosier Internationalist"; indeed, as James H. Madison
                    points out in his splendid introduction, "To label Willkie a Hoosier internationalist might
                    seem like an oxymoron." He was an internationalist from a land of isolationists. Early in
                    life he flirted with socialism, became a Wilsonian Democrat imbued with the ideals of the League of
                    Nations, continued to play an active role in Democratic politics until his sudden switch to the
                    Republican party in 1939, and, without ever holding public office, captured the Republican
                    nomination for president of the 
            United States
           in 1940.
        According to the authors of these essays, two concepts came to dominate Willkie's political
                    philosophy during the course of his political odyssey: civil liberties and international
                    collaboration. He became a champion of the civil rights of African Americans long before either
                    party embraced the idea. He saw the struggle for civil rights in the 
            United States
           in an international context that addressed 
            
              ⋆ The reviewer for this book was selected by two members of
                            the Editorial Advisory Committee of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
          
          
          
            WENDELL L. WILLKIE TALKING CROPS
              IN RUSHVILLE, INDIANA, 1940
            Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloornington.
          
           the colonialism and exploitation of oppressed people around the
                    world. He, perhaps more than any other man except F#2 D. Roosevelt, contributed to the end of
                    American isolationism and envisioned an "American era" in which the 
            United States
           would be the dominant force in shaping world peace through a global economy and
                    political cooperation.
        As is the case with all aspirants to the presidency, Willkie's public and private persona
                    were often at odds, especially if one accepts the mythology in which Americans enshroud presidential
                    candidates. Several of the essays effectively explore the man and the myth, particularly those of
                    George T. Blakey and Mark H. Leff. Was he a good Hoosier? Does he qualify for the distinction even
                    though he spent ten years in 
            Akron, Ohio
          , and his most productive years in 
            New York City
          ? Was he the rumpled country hayseed the press (and his campaign) portrayed him to be,
                    or was his only brush with country living the view of Central Park from his apartment window? Harold
                    Ickes called him "the simple barefoot Wall Street lawyer," and therein lies a tale
                    well explored in this volume.
        Essayists also assess Willkie's famous book One World, written after a
                    whirlwind world tour in 1942. One World became a runaway best seller in 1943, and
                    it contains the best single statement of Willkie's internationalist views and his
                    dedication to equal rights for all people. Yet, as French scholar Andre Kaspi points out, the work
                    was both farsighted and shortsighted. Kaspi is critical of Willkie for his failure to address the
                    extermination of Jews, his limited understanding of French circumstances, and his failure to put
                    forward a comprehensive plan for postwar Europe.
        Finally, the volume is useful and quite refreshing in the way it explores Willkie's
                    definition and practice of liberalism. 
            Harvard

           Sitkoff discusses Willkie's contributions to the civil rights movement and his
                    collaboration with Walter White of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
                    (NAACP). But the volume concludes with a wonderful speech that Willkie delivered at Indiana
                    University in 1938. In the address Willkie defines liberalism not as the exclusive property of
                    either political party but as an "attitude of mind" (p. 160).
                    Willkie saw liberalism as a centrist position between the extremes of the Right and the Left. The
                    emphasis of the liberal, he said, is on "individual freedom, while in the ideologies of
                    either the Right or the Left it is upon social control" (p. 160). He also described the
                    major transformation in the application of liberalism in the early decades of the twentieth century
                    from a struggle against Big Business to one against Big Government. There is much to be learned from
                    Willkie's life, and much to be gleaned from this volume.
        RAYMOND W. SMOCK is historian for the 
            United States
           House of Representatives, 
            Washington
          , D. C.
      
      
      
        
          A Live Thing in the Whole Town: The History of the 
              Indianapolis
            –
              Marion County
             Public Library, 1873–1990. By Lawrence J. Downey. (
            Indianapolis
          , Ind.: 
            Indianapolis
          -
            Marion County
           Public Library Foundation, Inc., 1991. Pp. 246. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $15.00.)
        During the 1960s Ernestine Bradford Rose began a history of the 
            Indianapolis
          -
            Marion County
           Public Library (I-MCPL) in anticipation of the library's centennial in 1973.
                    Unfortunately, the project lay dormant for a number of years, and it was not until 1989 that
                    Lawrence J. Downey began to verify, edit, and expand the earlier work. Downey, who started his
                    library career as a high school page, joined the I-MCPL staff in 1951 and served in a variety of
                    capacities until 1988 when he retired as associate director for Management Services.
        In twenty-five chapters Downey describes and commemorates the institution that Eliza Gordon Browning
                    (sixth librarian, 1892–1917) wanted to become "a live thing in the whole
                    town" (p. 27). Beginning with brief mention of Indiana's earliest libraries, the
                    author provides a context for the establishment of the 
            Indianapolis
           Public Library in 1873. The first ten chapters, with the exception of Chapter
                    5—which is devoted to the construction of the Central Library—are organized by
                    librarian, beginning with Charles Evans and concluding with Raymond Gnat. The remaining chapters
                    address such topics as the formation of the city-county library system in 1968, divisions and
                    departments, branch libraries and service to neighborhoods, staff education and training, the staff
                    association and publications, noteworthy gifts, and the I-MCPL foundation.
        Although librarians are committed to the preservation and dissemination of the human record, the
                    profession as a whole has a tendency to ahistoricity. Librarians, as well as readers interested in
                    state, local, and cultural history, will benefit from perusing this volume. Highly readable, the
                    text is lavishly illustrated with photographs of individuals, buildings, activities, and numerous
                    historical documents. The chapters on service to neighborhoods, branch libraries, and extension
                    agencies provide glimpses of the city's educational system, immigrant communities, and
                    women's club movement. Finally, this volume also includes lists of library trustees, I-MCPL
                    Foundation members, assistant librarians, associate directors, and branch and bookmobile managers.

        Readers who wish to explore some of the many topics discussed in this work will be frustrated by the
                    complete absence of footnotes. Although the author ‘evidently examined a wide range of
                    archival materials, the bibliography (pp. 241–42) is sparse and fails to include even
                    such a basic and relevant title as Edward Holley's biography of Charles Evans. Nonetheless,
                    Downey's history of 
          
            MAIN READING ROOM, CENTRAL LIBRARY, INDIANAPOLIS
            
            Reproduced from Lawrence J. Downey, A Live Thing in the Whole Town: The History
                                of the 
                  Indianapolis
                -
                  Marion County
                 Public Library, 1873–1990 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1991), 100.
          
           the I-MCPL underscores the importance of preserving the
                    materials that document institutional as well as professional heritage.
        JOANNE E. PASSET is an assistant professor in the School
                    of Library and Information Science, American Studies Program, and Women's Studies Program,
                    Indiana University, 
            Bloomington
          . In 1992 she was awarded the Justin Winsor Prize for an essay entitled "Men in
                    a Feminized Profession: The Male Librarian, 1887–1921." She currently serves as
                    chair of the Library History Round Table of the American Library Association.
      
      
        
          Newspaper Days: Theodore Dreiser. Edited by T. D. Nostwich. (
            Philadelphia
          : University of Pennsylvania Press, 1991. Pp. xiv, 825. Notes, illustrations, appendix,
                    index. $49.95.)
        First published as A Book about Myself in 1922, this chronicle of Theodore
                    Dreiser's experiences as a young journalist is a masterful example of textual scholarship
                    and an absorbing autobiographical account of the coming of age of one of America's, and
                    Indiana's, most important authors. Though Dreiser had become accustomed to the kind of
                    "sanitizing" that editors and publishers inflicted on his manuscripts to make them
                    palatable to the conservative reading public of the early 1900s he was never happy about the
                    process. He often expressed his hope to friends such as H. L. Mencken and others that restored
                    versions of his memoirs and novels would be published after his death. "The fact that he
                    preserved the holograph and both typescripts of Newspaper Days and entrusted them
                    to the University of Pennsylvania strongly suggests that he hoped this book would someday be
                    published in an uncut edition," writes editor T. D. Nostwich (p. 745). The Pennsylvania
                    edition of Newspaper Days would surely have received the author's
                    approval.
        Having previously edited Theodore Dreiser's "Heard in the
                        Corridors" Articles and Related Writings (1988) and Theodore Dreiser
                        Journalism: Volume I, Newspaper Writings, 1892–1895 (1988),
                    Nostwich brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to the task of establishing a critical text for
                    this volume. Adhering to traditional standards of textual editing that seek to reveal authorial
                    intention by relying on the text that is closest to the author's own hand, Nostwich uses
                    Dreiser's holograph manuscript as the base text for this edition and allows alterations
                    into that text through a complicated priority system that gives highest priority to
                    Dreiser's handwritten revisions. The result is an eclectic text that represents a synthesis
                    of all relevant texts rather than an exact reproduction of any existing text. "It is
                    … a new work of art," explains the editor, "never before published, and
                    it must be approached freshly and interpreted anew" (p. 751).

        Included among the thirty thousand words that the editor has restored to this volume of
                    Dreiser's autobiography are almost all of  the episodes
                    dealing with the young man's developing sexuality, passages involving philosophical or
                    social commentary, and much detailed analysis of thoughts and emotions. The editor also supplies
                    actual names for people whose identities Dreiser wished to conceal. The Pennsylvania edition of Newspaper Days, with its historical and textual commentaries and notes, serves as
                    a major source for biographical information about Dreiser's newspaper apprenticeship in
                            
            Chicago, St.
                        Louis, Pittsburgh
          , and 
            New York
           between 1890 and 1894, and it also reveals the true artistry of the mature author.
        J. KENT CALDER is the Indiana Historical
                    Society's managing editor. He also serves as a contributing editor for Documentary Editing, the journal of the Association for Documentary Editing.
      
      
        
          The Protestant Experience in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1975: At Home in the
                    City. By James W. Lewis. (
            Knoxville
          : University of Tennessee Press, 1992. Pp. xv, 285. Illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)
        James W. Lewis's study is at the cutting edge of a new interest in congregational studies.
                    Lewis demonstrates that congregational histories can serve as "building blocks"
                    for a richer national religious history (p. 8). Well versed in urban history, sociology, and
                    religious history, he also shows that religion played a more central urban role than historians have
                    generally acknowledged.
        Lewis's central theme is that Protestants were neither uncomfortable nor unsuccessful in
                    industrial cities. Lewis may exaggerate previous authors’ emphasis on Protestant
                    anti-urbanism, but he makes a telling point: "Gary's Protestants knew at first
                    hand that the 
            United States
           was becoming an urban society and were among its creators—proudly and
                    self-consciously urban" (p. 10). They were "energized," not
                    "immobilized," by the city's plethora of problems (p. 205). Though a
                    religious minority, they assumed broad responsibility for the city's welfare.
        Lewis first establishes the context for his examination of two of Gary's principal churches.
                    He traces the city's creation, political history, and ethnic, racial, and religious
                    diversity and documents the Protestant contribution to the settlement movement, political and moral
                    reform, an innovative public program of religious education, and ecumenical and interracial
                    cooperation.

        The two congregations to which Lewis subsequently turns represent different theological and social
                    orientations within mainstream Protestantism. Both were influenced by evangelicalism and the Social Gospel. His examination of each congregation's formation, building
                    programs, and pastoral leadership reveals, however, that First Presbyterian stressed its ministry to
                    its own members 
          
            CHRIST CHURCH EPISCOPAL, GARY, INDIANA
            
            Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University Northwest, Gary.
          
          
            FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
              UNDER CONSTRUCTION, GARY, INDIANA, 1910
            Courtesy First United Presbyterian Church, Gary, Indiana.
          
           more than public-sector activities, while City Methodist
                    emphasized more strongly its public mission.
        Despite their differences both churches took a public role for granted and were "at home in
                    the city," at least until the 1950s, when they began to flounder. Like downtown churches
                    elsewhere, they benefitted from Gary's vitality in the 1920s and again after World War II,
                    but profound economic shifts, suburbanization, and rapid increases in the black population
                    constituted insurmountable problems. First Presbyterian survived only by merger in 1975; City
                    Methodist closed its doors that same year. Not anti-urbanism, but overwhelming environmental
                    changes, made them "no longer at home in the city" (p. 133).
        Lewis's choice of elite churches leaves the reader wondering how blue-collar Protestants and
                    Protestants in the Fundamentalist, Pentecostal, and Holiness traditions fared. One might also expect
                    greater attention to the laity. Nevertheless, Lewis provides a valuable comparative perspective,
                    based on a use of local religious records that other congregational studies might emulate.
        The biographer of 
            Washington
           Gladden, a pioneering Social Gospel pastor in 
            Columbus, Ohio
          , and of
                    articles and essays on urban Protestantism, JACOB H. DORN is
                    currently studying American Christians in the socialist movement from the 1880s to the 1920s. He is
                    professor of history, Wright State University, 
            Dayton, Ohio
          .
      
      
        
          Cahokia and the Hinterlands: Middle Mississippian Cultures of the Midwest.
                    Edited by Thomas E. Emerson and R. Barry Lewis. (
            Urbana
          : University of Illinois Press, published in cooperation with the Illinois Historic
                    Preservation Agency, 1991. Pp. xi, 357. Illustrations, figures, tables, references, index.
                    $49.95.)
        Located in the American Bottom, just across the Mississippi River from modern 
            St. Louis
          , Cahokia was a Mississippian ceremonial and commercial center that flourished between
                    600 and 1300 A.D. and whose population during the late eleventh century may have reached twenty
                    thousand. The site was first excavated during the 1920s, and during the past half-century
                    archaeologists have continued their investigations and have attempted to ascertain the cause of the
                    city's emergence and decline, its influence upon surrounding regions, and its relationship
                    to other Mississippian communities. The volume contains seventeen essays focusing upon these
                    subjects and represents the current state of scholarship in this field.

        Although not all of the essayists agree, there seems to be a general consensus that Cahokia was
                    developed by a population indigenous to the ecologically rich American Bottom but that initially it
                    was heavily influenced by other Mississippian centers to the south. The introduction of maize into
                    the region in approximately  750 A.D. facilitated the growth of a
                    larger, more permanent population, which in turn resulted in a more stratified society, a richer
                    ceremonial complex, and an expanded trade network. After 1300 climatic changes and the introduction
                    of northern flint corn into the region encouraged a population dispersal that caused the site
                    eventually to be abandoned. Most of the essayists agree that Cahokia's influence was
                    focused primarily to the north, and although there is little evidence to suggest that Cahokia sent
                    out colonists who eventually settled in northern Illinois or the upper Mississippi valley (with the
                    exception of the Spoon River, Apple River, and Red Wing sites), Mississippian communities developed
                    in these regions through indigenous people's contacts with Cahokia and the American Bottom.
                    Once established, however, these northern communities probably maintained closer ties among
                    themselves than with Cahokia.
        This is an important book and will be welcomed by both professional historians and general readers
                    who are interested in the pre-Columbian history of the upper Mississippi valley. Unlike numerous
                    archaeological site reports that delineate, in great detail, the artifacts discovered at a
                    particular site, the essays in this volume generally synthesize archaeological data and attempt to
                    place such information within a historical context. Obviously, some of the essayists disagree about
                    various facets of Cahokia's influence and decline, but their cogent and careful arguments
                    should be of considerable interest to nonspecialists. Moreover, their focus upon Cahokia and its
                    influence will be very useful to those professional historians who wish to further their knowledge
                    of the rich history of the pre-Columbian 
            United States
          .
        R. DAVID EDMUNDS is professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
            Bloomington

          . He has written several books and articles on the Indian tribes of the Midwest. His
                    most recent work (with coauthor) is entitled The Fox Wars: The Mesquakie Challenge to
                        New 
              France
            
           (forthcoming).
      
      
        
          A Spirited Resistance: The North American Indian Struggle for Unity,
                        1745–1815. By Gregory Evans Dowd. (
            Baltimore
          : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1992. Pp. xxvi, 261. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    index. $24.95.)

        This is a book about Native American religious power—how it was acquired and how it was
                    used. A little studied and not well understood phenomenon, Native American religious power, Dowd
                    argues, underlay the important resistance struggle waged by Eastern Woodlands Indians from at least
                    the early eighteenth century until the period of the War of 1812. This resistance movement, called
                    "nativistic" by Dowd, was a systematic, organized, and theoretically informed
                    commitment by Native American religious leaders to unite all Indians from the Great Lakes to the
                    Gulf of 
          
            Mexico
           in a concerted, often militant, effort to preserve Indian cultures, lands, and
                    political and economic independence.
        The prophets Dowd writes about are well known to scholars. Neolin, Tenskwatawa, Tecumseh, Handsome
                    Lake, Josiah Francis, and others, the author claims, drew from a common prophetic heritage that
                    linked them across time and space to the mythic past and informed their efforts to acquire spiritual
                    power. Properly invigorated with ritual and ceremony, such power could be harnessed to shape the
                    future for the benefit of all Indian people. But the prophets and their nativist followers met stiff
                    resistance within as well as outside Indian country. Native people differed in their interpretations
                    of events. Some believed their future was best served in association with Europeans, not in
                    opposition to them. These "accommodationists" rejected the nativism of the
                    prophets and sought power elsewhere.
        Dowd finds this history divided into three periods. During the mid-eighteenth century nativists and
                    accommodationists opposed each other. In the Revolutionary period they united in alliance with the
                    British against the Americans, but by the 1790s they were again at cross purposes. This pattern of
                    factionalism, Dowd argues, is a significant factor in the ultimate failure of the nativists to
                    achieve their goals.

        Dowd's contribution lies in his approach. Anthony F. C. Wallace, R. David Edmunds, and other
                    recent scholars have fleshed out the histories of the prophets Dowd discusses. But Dowd puts them,
                    and their movements, into a broad context that emphasizes cultural similarity across tribal lines,
                    that links their prophetic visions and teachings to both the ancient past and to each other, that
                    stresses Pan-Indianism, and that above all gives life and meaning to their search for spiritual
                    power. In this Dowd finds a place next to Joel Martin's Sacred Revolt, a
                    recently published study of the early nineteenth-century Creek prophetic movement.
        Dowd understands the earlier period better than the later and the North better than the South, and
                    while his notes attest to the breadth of his research, they also reveal the gaps in the evidence.
                    This is nevertheless a fascinating, important, and impressive book. Dowd has revitalized the
                    discussion of this very significant period of Native American history.
        MICHAEL D. GREEN is associate professor of history,
                    University of 
            Kentucky, Lexington
          . He is a student of Creek political and social history and
                    is at work on a book on the Creeks in Indian Territory in the decades immediately after their
                    removal.
      
      
        
          Beautiful Machine: Rivers and the Republican Plan, 1755–1825. By John
                    Seelye. (
            New York
          : 
            Oxford
           University Press, 1991. Pp. xii, 430. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)

        This evocative work continues John Seelye's meditations on rivers and their place in the
                    American culture. Geopolitical imagination is the objective of Seelye's
                    research—such grand images of  collective purpose
                    spread out on continental maps as were the stock-in-trade of early American geographers, patriotic
                    poets, explorers, speculators, boosters, and political founders.
        Borrowing contemporaries' appreciation for rivers as natural spatial organizers, Seelye
                    explores writings about rivers, seeking clues to the evolution of American national purpose (he
                    calls it the "republican plan"). What he finds is an unanticipated reversal in the
                    promise of America's waterways. At the dawn of national existence George 
            Washington

           had seen a providential opportunity for integration, coherence, and unity through
                    inland navigation; the next generation experienced instead centrifugal pressures that fostered
                    ambition, competition, and disintegration. Both visions yielded empire, to be sure; but where the
                    first promised order and enlightenment, the second favored chaos, individualism, and aggression.
                    Seelye unpacks this contrast slowly, carefully explicating for the reader the contents of such
                    important texts as John Filson's Discovery and Settlement of Kentucke
                    (1784), Jedidiah Morse's American Geography (1789), Joel
                    Barlow's Columbiad (1807), the expedition journals of Zebulon 
            Pike
           (1808) and Meriwether Lewis (1814), Elkanah Watson's History of
                        the … Western Canals (1820) and many others.
        Seelye's literary methods required him to treat with care the rhetoric of visionary writers,
                    and his path of inquiry often raises questions that his sources do not readily address.
                    Seelye's nuanced reading of texts beautifully traces a distinction (too little acknowledged
                    by historians) between the designs of the founders and the mere desires of their liberated children,
                    between an almost mathematical rhetoric of enlightenment projection and its selfish echo in a
                    generation of political and economic hucksters. Unfortunately, Seelye's literary sources
                    cannot explain the causes of this cultural sea change. Thus the brilliant contrast between a heroic
                    George 
            Washington
           and a scurrilous James Wilkinson (pp. 213–24) seems rooted in the
                    latter's bad character (a historical accident). The same limitation encourages Seelye to
                    jump prematurely from the celebration of the 
            Erie
           Canal to an almost inevitable sectional crisis because of cultural change. Such a
                    conclusion may be very true, but the rich history that sustains such truth is not provided in this
                    volume.
        
          Beautiful Machine is an important book, and Seelye's title suggests the
                    reason why: the 
            United States
           was conceived as a beautiful machine, and there was from the beginning a close
                    connection in the minds of the founders between rivers and the republican plan. If Seelye does not
                    explain the whole connection over time, he still exposes it skillfully to' public view.
        JOHN LAURITZ LARSON is associate
                    professor of history, Purdue University, West 
            Lafayette
          , Indiana. He is currently writing a book about internal improvements in the early 
            United States
           through the Civil War era.
      
      
      
        
          News from the Land of Freedom: 
              German
             Immigrants Write Home. Edited by Walter D. Kamphoefner, Wolfgang Helbich, and
                    Ulrike Sommer. Translated by Susan Carter Vogel. (
            Ithaca
          , N. Y.: Cornell University Press, 1991. Pp. ix, 645. Notes, maps, figures,
                    illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
        With immigration having had the most fundamental impact on the demographic development of North
                    America, immigrant letters—especially those written by the millions of nineteenth-century
                    newcomer—onstitute a huge reservoir for social history both in the 
            United States
           and in the respective "old country." The present
                    work—based on a 1988 
            German
          -language edition—is the result of transatlantic cooperation and is the first
                    big epistolary volume of 
            German
           immigrant letters offered in an English-language version. The tripartite and very
                    informative introductory section features short essays on "
            German
           Immigration to the 
            United States
          " (26 pp.) and "Immigrant Letters" (9 pp.). The part entitled
                    "This Edition" (25 pp.) takes up selection and editing criteria and the crucial
                    question of handling the inherent discrepancy in numerous immigrant correspondences: the desire to
                    communicate via letter and the writer's handicap with spelling and punctuation. This
                    nightmare of transcribers and translators is hardly evident in the present sanitized English version
                    of 
            German
           immigrant letters. Only a few examples of misspellings, mostly geographic in nature,
                    are retained, and they serve as reminders also of the newcomers' early struggle with a
                    foreign tongue (Yndianaponis, Indianaponis, Indianaponnis—but, after three months,
                    correctly 
            Indianapolis
          ).
        The roughly 350 letters of this volume were selected from the growing Emigrants' Letter
                    Collection at the Ruhr Universitaet Bochum (ca. 5,000 at this time). Only series of letters were
                    considered, "sequences of letters written by one person or members of one family over a
                    period of several years," for "a series provides evidence of the process of change
                    in circumstances and attitudes such as an individual's adaptation and integration into the
                    society of his new home" (p. 45). Aware of the usual overrepresentation of the highly
                    educated in immigrant history, the editors offer a historically more justifiable socioeconomic
                    stratification. The letters are then divided into those of "Farmers" (210 pp.),
                    "Workers" (200 pp.), and "Domestic Servants" (67 pp.). Each of
                    the letter writers is introduced with succinct information as to origin and environment in the home
                    region and in the new American setting, all meticulously documented. The letters proper are
                    carefully abbreviated from their originals, with bracketed cue words giving contents of omissions.
        In the "Farmers" category Indiana is represented by the Christian Lenz letters from 
            Harrison County
           and 
            Louisville
           (1849–  1888); the first years of the
                    "Domestic Servants" experiences of the Winkelmeier sisters, Engel and Margarethe,
                    are beautifully reflected in their letters from 
            Indianapolis
           (1867–1872).
        The whole colorful spectrum of immigrant reactions to the new—and to the
                    old—homeland comes alive in this competently edited and translated book that must be
                    recognized as a major addition to the literature on immigrant history.
        EBERHARD REICHMANN is professor emeritus of Germanic
                    Studies, Indiana University, 
            Bloomington
          . He has most recently edited Hoosier 
              German
             Tales Small & Tall (1991).
      
      
        
          Women of the Grange: Mutuality and Sisterhood in Rural America,
                    1866–1920. By Donald B. Marti. (
            New York
          : Greenwood Press, 1991. Pp. viii, 157. Notes, note on sources, index.
                    $39.95.)
        In Women of the Grange Donald B. Marti seeks to define the roles which women played
                    in that agricultural organization as well as to uncover ways in which their participation therein
                    led them to be a part of the women's movement. He argues that the Grange's
                    structure, which included women from the first, reflected the mutuality of rural life that has been
                    documented by other scholars. Both in the Grange and on the farm, men and women worked and lived
                    together—mutuality. At the same time Grange activities gave rural women a chance to
                    socialize with one another and cooperatively to serve their common interests as mothers, wives, and
                    farm women—sisterhood.
        By looking at the activities, writings, and lives of leading women in the Grange, Marti outlines the
                    roles women played in that society and tries to explain what the organization meant to its women
                    members. He traces the evolution of women's roles from the symbolic offices of Ceres,
                    Pomona, and Flora, which positions women held in Grange ritual in the early years, to their more
                    substantial participation as lecturers and assistant stewards. In the 1880s they gained a place in
                    the regional and national levels of the organization, and by the twentieth century women were a
                    majority of the lecturers and even filled the highest offices at local and state levels.

        Marti develops a collective portrait of active women in the Grange. He finds that they tended to be
                    well educated and were generally religious. They shared a domestic focus and were concerned with the
                    need to reduce the drudgery of farm women's work through efficient and modern methods. The
                    women's writings in the Grange publications that Marti surveyed frequently touched on this
                    topic and offered myriad suggestions for improvements to the farm home. Although most of these women
                    saw their responsibilities as principally domestic, they were also attentive to issues of  "public housekeeping." Active Grange women supported
                    temperance and suffrage and persuaded the organization (contrary to assurances of its founders) that
                    this latter cause was a "clear implication of its first principles" (p. 148). They
                    also engaged in a variety of community improvement campaigns through their Women's
                    Committees and their work with the juvenile Grange.

        Marti makes use of a wide variety of sources and provides a strong introduction and an informative
                    bibliographic essay, both of which comment upon recent work in the history of rural women and the
                    Grange movement. Women of the Grange is a useful addition to the scholarship on
                    rural life.
        KATHERINE A. TINSLEY is assistant professor of history, 
            Manchester
           College, ManChester, Indiana. She has published jointly authored articles on the
                    history of literacy and is currently working on a project that explores the interactions of parents
                    and children in midwestern families.
      
      
        
          Agrarian Women: Wives and Mothers in Rural 
              Nebraska
            , 1880–1940. By Deborah Fink. (
            Chapel Hill
          : University of 
            North Carolina
           Press, 1992. Pp. xxiii, 242. Maps, tables, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $34.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
        Rural anthropologist Deborah Fink's Agrarian Women: Wives and Mothers in Rural 
              Nebraska
            , 1880–1940 is a provocative contribution to debates among
                    researchers on rural women. Contrary to the view that rural women experienced more egalitarian
                    marriages because of their shared labor and essential economic contributions to the family farm,
                    Fink concludes that rural women in 
            Boone County
          , 
            Nebraska
          , were not "insulated from gender oppression," their physical labor
                    (and that of their children) was exploited, and their isolation deprived them of community support
                    that made them more vulnerable to domestic violence (p. 190). Fink has no patience for the
                    continuing glorification of agrarianism. Defining it as "the belief in the moral and
                    economic primacy of farming over industry" and the "superiority of farm
                    life" over urban life, she asserts that this "false" and
                    "irrelevant" ideology, which incorporates women only as subordinate appendages to
                    men, has provided a woefully inadequate basis for public policies (p. 11, 12, 194).
        Her case study assesses the impact of geography, class, and gender on the lives of rural women and
                    illustrates why the experiences of agrarian women defy facile generalization. The bleak, treeless,
                    and arid plains of Nebraska presented special challenges to farm families—difficulties
                    not encountered in the more humid cornbelt regions of 
            Iowa, Illinois

          , or Indiana.
                    Without trees, settlers lived in dugouts or soddies; without water, their crops failed. One finds
                    abundant evidence of neighborliness among rural  women in
                    Indiana, but in sparsely settled 
            Nebraska
          , Fink argues that isolation was common, especially for poorer women. Landless families
                    moved frequently and failed to develop close friendships and social networks, but even women in more
                    prosperous farm families experienced physical and emotional isolation. By the end of the 1930s Fink
                    notes that only 17 percent of 
            Boone County
           farms were accessible by graveled or hard-surfaced roads. It was usually men who went
                    to town and saw friends and women who remained at home. The influence of class affected other
                    aspects of rural women's lives: food provisions, housing and furnishings, and most
                    importantly, the nature of work performed on the farm. As in Indiana, women living on marginal
                    farming operations were the most likely to engage in field work themselves and to witness
                    interruptions or terminations of their children's educations because they were needed as
                    unpaid farm laborers.
        Fink perceives the 1930s as the pivotal decade for rural women of all classes. "…
                    agrarian life was crumbling," and women found that despite their extra work they could not
                    "ease the burdens of the depression …" (p. 129). 
            Boone County
           women rejected the agrarian life in several ways: leaving farms in large numbers,
                    remaining single, divorcing, and if married, becoming "less tied to the farm
                    economy" (pp. 129–30). Fink's discussion of the fundamental changes in
                    this decade is convincing and based on an impressive variety of sources.
        Among the most valuable sources in Agrarian Women are Fink's interviews
                    with over thirty-five women. Since the quotations from her fieldwork are so illuminating, it is
                    regrettable that she did not incorporate more of the women's own words into her text. More troubling, her conclusions that struggles to survive
                    led to alienation rather than bonding between husbands and wives and that an intrinsically violent
                    Plains culture, coupled with women's isolation, made them more susceptible to the brutal
                    rages of spouses are based on inadequate evidence and rely heavily on Mari Sandoz's Old Jules, an account of her father. Fink's contention that the book
                    about a gifted intellectual who "beat and tyrannized his wives and children" and
                    "refused to do farm work" was widely read in 
            Boone County
           and that "men admired Old Jules and sought to emulate him" is
                    unsubstantiated (p. 78). Questions about behavior within marriages are crucial in debates on the
                    lives of rural women, but as Fink's generally fine study demonstrates, this private
                    behavior is also the most difficult to document.
        BARBARA J. STEINSON is professor and chair of the History
                    Department, DePauw University, 
            Greencastle
          , Indiana. She is conducting research on rural women in early twentieth-century
                Indiana.
      
      
      
        
          Farewell—We're Good and Gone: The Great Black
                        Migration. By Carole Marks. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1989. Pp. x, 209. Illustrations, tables, figures, map,
                    notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $37.50; paperbound, $12.95.)
        
          Land of Hope: 
              Chicago
            , Black Southerners, and the Great Migration. By James R. Grossman. (
            Chicago
          : University of 
            Chicago
           Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 384. Illustrations, maps, figures, appendixes, tables, notes,
                    selected bibliography, index. $29.95.)

        After the Civil War the federal government freed four million African Americans and, through the
                    urgency of Radical Republicans, guaranteed constitutional rights for black people with the
                    Reconstruction amendments. With their newfound freedom African Americans set out to be responsible
                    American citizens, committed to the Protestant work ethic, education, and the success of future
                    generations. Unfortunately, African Americans soon learned that freedom for them meant greater
                    limitations to equal opportunities than for other Americans. Historian Rayford W. Logan in The Betrayal of the Negro: From R#2 B. Hayes to Woodrow Wilson (1965) termed the
                    era "the nadir" in reference to oppressive measures meted out to Americans of
                    African descent. The period 1910–1925, which Carole Marks and James R. Grossman address
                    in their respective studies, represents another of America's failed promises of democracy
                    in regard to African-American citizens. Marks and Grossman agree with Logan's assessment,
                    showing also that as late as the 1940s, and after seeking better conditions in the North, African
                    Americans could not gain equal access to American freedoms.
        Both authors describe the political, social, and economic problems African Americans confronted in
                    the South in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Terrorism, the grandfather clause,
                    literacy tests, and poll taxes removed black males' right to the vote. Jim Crow laws
                    limited African Americans' access in public transportation, theaters, and recreational
                    facilities. Segregated housing and schools, generally inferior, resulted in shortfalls for black
                    children who had to struggle against institutional racism that followed them to adulthood. Peonage
                    and sharecropping further exploited black workers. Sporadic violence almost always compelled black
                    people to leave the South. Grossman summarizes white people's failure to understand the
                    needs of black people as the main problem. He traces the phenomenon back as far as the American
                    Revolution when African Americans fought for the British because colonists refused to let them fight
                    for America. If white Americans could have understood that black people wanted no more than white
                    Americans enjoyed, the situation could have been positively better by the early twentieth century.

        If migrants could be motivated by factors that pushed them from the South, they could find great hope
                    in factors that Grossman  summarized as "bettering my
                    condition" (p. 6). The better conditions included various aspects of political, social, and
                    economic equality, not the least of which was the greater control of one's work hours and
                    wages, however meager. Personal independence, therefore, proved to be the greatest impulse for
                    movement. The key pull factor for northern movement was the willingness of white employers to
                    experiment with black workers at a time when European immigrants almost completely stopped coming to
                    America.
        While both authors cite the general push-pull factors relating to the movement of black people to the
                    North, each offers a unique view of the Great Migration. Marks, looking at the South in general for
                    information on black migrants, concludes that largely urban skilled laborers, not the general
                    agricultural workers, left the South for perceived equal opportunities in the North. She also finds
                    that the slow growth of southern industrialism forced them to look to the North for greater
                    opportunity. Furthermore, she says that "mobilization … was orchestrated in the
                    board rooms of northern industrial enterprises" (p. 3). Marks also pays attention to
                    women's contributions to the Great Migration. Black women's work usually fell in
                    the category of domestic service, which often meant that they fared less well than male workers.
                    Marks's location of the migrants included points North in general. She often compares black
                    migrants to immigrants, sometimes failing to comprehend fully African Americans'
                    limitations prescribed by racism, a factor that did not restrict immigrants to the same degree.
        Grossman looks largely at black migration to the 
            Chicago
           area from 
            Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama,
                            Texas, Arkansas, Georgia
          , and 
            Tennessee
          . His discussion details the South from which largely rural migrants came and the North
                    where they created a new world based on an industrial order. He finds that the African-American
                    world view shaped by race in the South was also shaped by race in the North. Black people continued
                    to rely on "the comfort and familiarity of black institutions" (p. 8).
                    Furthermore, Grossman documents the intricate networks (kinship, friendship, and professional) that
                    show how readily black people relied on each other in the migration process. The 
            Chicago
          
          Defender's transition from an objector to migration supporter, for
                    example, proved just as important as relatives who sent letters of encouragement, paid for train
                    tickets, or provided housing to migrants upon their arrival in 
            Chicago
          . The support network involved in the migration process—both during and
                    after—proved as complex as the intricate levels of black culture. Grossman is convinced
                    that the migration process was successful because migrants relied on black culture and also that the
                    migration strengthened African-American culture.

        Marks concentrates on economic aspects of the Great Migration although she too relies on the theme of
                    the African-American  cultural consciousness; a poem,
                    "For Mother and Dad," the last line of which,
                    "Farewell—we're good and gone," becomes her book title.
                    Grossman's assessment of the Great Migration is centrally focused on cultural
                    consciousness. Each author's approach is unique and different, but each builds on the
                    growing scholarship of the subject and an understanding of the migrants and their impact on
                    twentieth-century industrial development. Both authors, however, end on a note of pessimism: almost
                    every African American who moved North in search of fulfilling America's promise of
                    democracy found further disappointment. Marks summarizes it best when she says, "Reality
                    never matched the dream of the Great Migration" (p. 3).
        LINDA REED is associate professor of history, University
                    of 
            Houston, Houston, Texas
          . Her most
                    recent work is Simple Decency and Common Sense: The Southern Conference Movement,
                        1938–1963 (1991).
      
      
        
          The Great Migration in Historical Perspective: New Dimensions of Race, Class, and
                        Gender. Edited by Joe William Trotter, Jr. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. xiv, 160. Notes, tables, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.00; paperbound, $10.95.)
        Highlighting recent scholarship on the Great Migration, this slender volume (based primarily on
                    book-length works) attempts to go beyond documenting the usual sources, causes, and consequences of
                    African-American population movement. The collection of essays not only emphasizes the ways in which
                    African Americans have shaped their own migration experiences but also illuminates differences in
                    the sources and in the impact of black migration on different cities.
        Peter Gottlieb, for instance, in his essay, "Rethinking the Great Migration,"
                    explores black migration to 
            Pittsburgh
           by extending his analysis backward into the pre-World War I era and forward into the
                    Great Depression, World War 11, and beyond. Gottlieb argues that although these periods of migration
                    preceding and following the 1916–1930 era profoundly influenced the development of
                    African-American communities, their dynamics grew from trends that were different from those of the
                    Great Migration. Shirley Anne Moore observes an important variant on the black migration theme in
                    her essay on black migration to 
            Richmond, California
          . She discovers that the process by
                    which black Richmondites entered into the urban industrial work force was more prolonged than
                    elsewhere, beginning slowly before the 1930s and accelerating during World War II as African
                    Americans moved into the shipyards in growing numbers.
        In his essay on black migration to Norfolk, 
            Virginia

          , Earl Lewis emphasizes the dynamic role of African-American kin, friend, and communal
                    networks in the migration process. He presents a well-documented and convincing analysis of
                    "visiting" as  "one strategy adopted
                    by African-Americans to counter the potentially deleterious effects of extra-local
                    residence" (p. 31). Both Lewis and Joe William Trotter observe how African-American
                    migration patterns have largely been misinterpreted. Lewis notes that "South to North has
                    been confused with rural to urban migration" (p. 22). Likewise, Trotter finds that black
                    migration to southern Appalachia "was neither rural to urban nor rural to rural, but rather
                    rural to rural-industrial" (p. 46).
        The impact of southern black culture and community life is brilliantly highlighted in James R.
                    Grossman's essay on race, class, and unionism in 
            Chicago
           from 1916–1922. Migrants predisposed toward unionization constituted a small
                    minority. Grossman reveals that most black southernero—those who knew anything about
                    unions—had learned to be suspicious of organized labor. "Unlikely to become a
                    part of the black community, unions had even less chance of being perceived as external institutions
                    that—like schools—were self-evidently beneficial and amenable to incorporation
                    into Afro-American tradition" (p. 95). Thus, while unionization offered one possible means
                    of improving their condition, most migrants only "flirted" with unions.
        Although all of the authors demonstrate a keen awareness of the importance of looking at gender,
                    Darlene Clark Hine's essay on black migration to the urban Midwest focuses wholly on this
                    topic. "As enlightening and pathbreaking" as the recent black migration studies
                    are, Hine argues that "there remains an egregious void concerning the experience of black
                    women migrants" (p. 128). Hine challenges historians to focus on the sexual and the
                    personal impetus for black women's migration, paying more attention to the noneconomic
                    motives.
        
          The Great Migration in Historical Perspective offers an impressive balance of
                    theory and historical content as it explores the meaning of the thesis that "the Great
                    Migration of the early twentieth century represents for African-Americans both immigration and
                    freedom" (p. ix), which is put forth by Nell Irvin Painter in the book's
                    provocatively executed foreword. While the collection's quality and range in scope suggest
                    the advancement of black migration studies within the larger field of black urban history, the
                    volume's length of 160 pages (notes, table, and index included) gives further credence to
                    the authors' call for additional monographs in this area.
        PRISCILLA A. DOWDEN is a lecturer in history at the
                    University of 
            Missouri
          -
            St. Louis
          . She is currently working on a dissertation that looks at African-American public
                    education and health care in 
            St. Louis, Missouri
          , from 1914 to 1945.
      
      
      
        
          A Case Study of Mainstream Protestantism: The Disciples' Relation to
                        American Culture, 1880–1989. Edited by D. Newell Williams. (Grand Rapids, Mich.,
                    and 
            St. Louis
          : William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company and Chalice Press, 1991. Pp. vii, 578. Notes,
                    bibliography, tables, figures, index. Paper-bound, $39.95.)
        
          A Case Study of Mainstream Protestantism is another example of the rapidly
                    developing interest among historians in the more recent history of the "mainline"
                    Protestant denominations. Spurred by present-day massive membership losses among those church
                    bodies, and the need, in part, to explain why, and funded generously by the Lilly Endowment in 
            Indianapolis
          , these studies are providing for the first time a detailed understanding of the recent
                    history of key and long-established groups in American Protestantism.
        This book follows a format already established by the Presbyterians in a series of volumes edited by 
            Milton
           Coalter, John Mulder, and Louis Weeks. Editor D. Newell Williams places a large number
                    of brief essays on a wide variety of topics inside the covers of a single book in contrast to the
                    Presbyterians' decision to publish seven small but separate volumes, each on a single,
                    unified theme. This reader feels that Williams attempts too much in one large effort. The essays
                    focus especially on theological-biblical and educational trends among the Disciples over the last
                    century and also analyze very recent developments in the denomination, using statistical data and
                    social science techniques to provide some understanding of the large declines in membership among
                    the Disciples in the past two decades. The editor includes a very useful introductory essay that
                    helps to tie together thematically much of the material, but the book seems unbalanced in its
                    treatment of topics and bears too much the earmarks of the conferences of church people and
                    academics that spawned it.
        At several points A Case Study hints at racial conflicts within the denomination,
                    yet there is no systematic consideration of that important but still neglected subject (such an
                    essay was presented verbally but not prepared for print). A young historian who recently has
                    reflected sensitively about women in American Protestantism wrote an essay for this
                    book—but not about women among the Disciples of Christ! This reviewer also regrets that
                    there was no attempt to explore fully the historical significance of the large schisms that since
                    1880 have at times bedeviled the Disciples. If examined closely, these rendings of the
                    denominational garments surely would have provided significant insights into the socioreligious
                    nexus of the Disciples in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. And an essay devoted to the
                    Disciples' attraction-repulsion  with major American
                    expressions of ecumenism such as the Federal or National Councils of Churches might have illuminated
                    the denomination's commitments in the twentieth century to its historic belief in Christian
                    unity.
        Despite these questionings this book constitutes an important first effort in establishing the recent
                    history of a significant group within American Protestantism, a group rooted throughout its history
                    in the Midwest and especially in Indiana. One hopes that this set of essays will encourage further
                    investigations so that an almost complete picture of this distinctive, Hoosier-influenced church can
                    be achieved.
        JAMES FINDLAY is professor of history, University of 
            Rhode Island
          , Kingston. His research interests are in American religious history, and his book
                    entitled "Church-people in the Struggle: The National Council of Churches and the Black
                    Freedom Movement, 1950–1970" is forthcoming from 
            Oxford
           University Press in April, 1993.
      
      
        
          Simple Decency & Common Sense: The Southern Conference Movement,
                        1938–1963. By Linda Reed. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. xxvii, 257. Illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    appendix, notes, index. $29.95.)
        In the late 1930s what George 
            Washington
           Cable once called the "Silent South" became vocal in decrying the
                    cost to the South of white racism. Southern white liberals from the academy, the labor movement,
                    politics, and journalism joined with prominent African Americans to denounce the poll tax, advocate
                    passage of a federal antilynching law, publicize the South's special economic problems, and
                    agitate for an interracial liberal-labor-Negro coalition to supplant Dixie's white
                    supremacist Democratic parties. In 1938 a galaxy of prominent southern
                    progressives—one-third of them African American—met in Birmingham, 
            Alabama
          , in unseg-regated sessions, to establish the Southern Conference for Human Welfare.

        The brief, yet vital, history of the SCHW, and of its successor, the Southern Conference Educational
                    Fund, has been recounted before, notably in Thomas Krueger's And Promises to
                        Keep (1967) and in Irvin Klibaner's doctoral dissertation on the SCEF. Many of the
                    key individuals and issues associated with the SCHW and SCEF have been the subject of fine recent
                    biographies and monographs. But never before Linda Reed's Simple Decency
                        & Common Sense: The Southern Conference Movement, 1938–1963 has the
                    mission of these reformers been so exhaustively researched, deftly analyzed, comprehensively
                    examined, and so sensitively, so compassionately portrayed.

        Reed argues that the campaigns of the Southern Conference Movement laid the groundwork for the
                    militant civil rights movement of the 1960s. To buttress that contention she has mined the  papers of the SCHW and SCEF as well as those of the National
                    Association for the Advancement of Colored People and of Anne and Carl Braden, James Dombrowski,
                    Virginia Foster Durr, Clark Foreman, and Frank Porter Graham, among others. In addition, she has
                    perceptively made use of a wide range of journalistic and secondary sources. The result is a
                    definitive history of the SCHWs activities, the consequences of red-baiting on the movement, the
                    wartime battle against the poll tax and racial discrimination, the Henry Wallace campaign of 1948
                    and the end of the SCHW, and the efforts of the SCEF to continue the mission by promoting
                    integration in education.

        While not every scholar will accept all of Reed's interpretations, especially those
                    concerning the reasons for the SCHWs demise, the positive role of the Bradens, or the links of
                    continuity between wartime liberalism and the direct-action movement of the 1960s, this is a
                    "must read study of southern interracialism. It is a most welcome addition to the Blacks in the Diaspora series of the Indiana University Press and to an
                    understanding of the deeper sources of change in the constitutional status of African Americans.
        HARVARD SITKOFF is professor of history, University of 
            New Hampshire
          , Durham. He is the author of A New Deal for Blacks (1978) and The Struggle for Black Equality (1981) and is currently working on a study of race
                    riots.
      
      
        
          Remaking America: Public Memory, Commemoration, and Patriotism in the Twentieth
                        Century. By John Bodnar. (
            Princeton
          , N. J.: 
            Princeton
           University Press, 1992. Pp. xiii, 296. Illustrations, notes, note on sources, index.
                    $29.95.)
        
          Mystic Chords of Memory: The Transformation of Tradition in American Culture. By
                    Michael Kammen. (
            New York
          : Alfred A. Knopf, 1991. Pp. 864. Illustrations, notes, index. $40.00.)

        These two thoughtful books examine, each in its own manner, the profoundly important question of how
                    American society comprehends its past. Both understand that historical images are not merely
                    recorded but rather are constructed through selection and interpretation of information in light of
                    current perceptions and values. As critical as this history making is to the society's
                    appreciation of its own merits, flaws, needs, and resources, not to mention its essential character,
                    neither John Bodnar nor Michael Kammen finds that it has been carried out rationally,
                    dispassionately, or comprehensively. As a result, public memory of America's past is
                    fundamentally mythic, with images of nationalism and progress at its core. For better or worse
                    public memory rests upon symbols sculpted by influential individuals and groups to enhance certain
                    interests, ideas, and values. It must nevertheless be taken seriously, for as Kammen writes,
                    "What people believe to be true  about their past is
                    usually more important in determining their behavior and responses than truth itself" (pp.
                    38–39).
        Kammen's Mystic Chords of Memory examines American historical culture over
                    two centuries. He finds little governmental or social concern with the past before 1870. Thereafter,
                    artists and authors eager to demonstrate American progress and a political culture determined to do
                    likewise began finding it worthwhile to compare the present with the past. The three decades after
                    1915 in particular witnessed rising interest in the past. Private collectors of folk culture, most
                    notably Henry Ford with 
            Greenfield
           Village and John D. Rockefeller with Colonial 
            Williamsburg
          , played pivotal roles in fostering a public sense of the past as distant and detached.
                    At the same time the federal government directed attention to a few notable places, events, and
                    persons by means of national parks and other initiatives. Local and regional efforts stimulated
                    particular memories. After World War II celebratory and commercial elements of remembrance became
                    ever stronger. Terms such as tradition and heritage became touchstones of an increasingly positive,
                    often wistful perception of the American experience.
        Bodnar's Remaking America focuses more specifically on the twentieth
                    century and the tension between official and popular, or what Bodnar calls vernacular, constructions
                    of the past. By examining the efforts of 
            Indianapolis
           and 
            Cleveland
           to cultivate a sense of community and several immigrant groups to celebrate their
                    ethnic identity, Bodnar illuminates ways in which civic authorities and ordinary people recast the
                    past in different ways to suit their particular purposes. Commemorations of midwestern settlement or
                    statehood as well as the evolution of the National Park Service illustrate official efforts to stir
                    patriotism. These civic remembrances contrast with a growing grassroots preference, particularly
                    after World War II, for recollection of personal matters devoid of nationalistic undercurrents. To
                    Bodnar the clash of official versus vernacular remembrance became particularly evident in disputes
                    over a 
            Vietnam
           Memorial between those who pursued overarching interpretations of the war and those who
                    sought an individualistic signification of soldiers' sacrifice.
        Both Kammen and Bodnar regard the Civil War centennial as an important manifestation of the
                    construction of public memory. Kammen dwells on the self-serving, content-empty nature of various
                    official and public commemorations. Bodnar emphasizes the federal effort to stress national unity,
                    which effort produced a carefully balanced treatment of Nohh and South as well as a tendency to
                    downplay the racial conflict at the core of the struggle. Public memory of the Civil War as
                    generated by its centennial, both scholars suggest, bore limited resemblance to its history.
        
        Neither of these stimulating works fully considers what sort of historical memory best serves the
                    public. Bodnar's more tightly constructed and cogently written volume provides the superior
                    introduction, while Kammen's offers greater anecdotal richness. Each suggests in its own
                    fashion how ill-served is a society that acquires from its past only congratulatory and comforting
                    images of patriotic traditions, heroic elites, and triumphant progress. Thus both books deserve a
                    careful reading by all concerned with how Americans obtain their understanding of the past and how
                    that might be improved.
        DAVID E. KYVIG is professor of history, University of
                            
            Akron, Akron, Ohio

          . He is a past
                    president of the National Council on Public History. His essay "Public or Perish Thoughts
                    on Historians' Responsibilities" appeared in the Fall, 1991, issue of the Public Historian.
      
      
        The Bulletin is Back!
        The Indiana Historical Bureau has resumed publication of the Indiana History
                    Bulletin. The first issue was mailed in February and contains an update of the
                    "Handbook for Historic Building Research" originally published in 1976.
        The Bulletin, scheduled for quarterly publication, will promote Bureau programs,
                    contain news from state and local history organizations, and provide information about educational
                    programs and opportunities. A guiding principle of the Bulletin is to promote the
                    value of state and local history.
        
          The Indiana History Bulletin has a broad complimentary distribution in Indiana,
                    including public and nonpublic school libraries, public and college libraries, and historical
                    organizations.
        Individual annual subscriptions are available for $5.00.
        Indiana Historical Bureau
        140 North Senate Avenue
        Room 408
        
          
            Indianapolis
          , Indiana 46204–2296
        317–232–2535
      
      
      
        Review Notices
        
          How Dear to My Heart. By Emily Kimbrough. (1944; 
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, in cooperation with the 
            Delaware County

           Historical Alliance, 1991. Pp. x, 267. Illustrations. Clothbound, $22.50;
                    paperbound, $12.95.) Another in the Indiana University Press's Library of Indiana Classics series, How Dear to My Heart is the story of
                    Emily Kimbrough's early childhood in 
            Muncie

          , Indiana, during the first decade of the twentieth century. A graduate of Bryn Mawr and
                    later fashion editor and managing editor of Ladies Home Journal, Kimbrough
                    describes a slower, friendlier, small-town life during the gaslight era, a time of hired girls,
                    hopscotch on the sidewalk, and sleigh rides. Meant to be neither an autobiography nor a historic
                    chronicle of a period, the book is instead Kimbrough's attempt "to write something
                    about a happy childhood in America. … It is only an effort to say aloud some of the
                    things which the smell of burning leaves in the Fall brings back to my mind every year" (p.
                    [xi]). How Dear to My Heart is indeed a clear, crisp, delightful recounting of an
                    almost idyllic childhood. It is poignant, evocative, humorous. It is not, however, every
                    Hoosier's childhood. Kimbrough's maternal grandparents lived next to the Benjamin
                    Harrisons in 
            Indianapolis
          ; in 
            Muncie

           the Balls were among her family's closest friends. The book is also history,
                    perhaps in its purest sense, for here through the eyes of a child are the attitudes, opinions,
                    lifestyles of the relatively affluent in small-town mid-America at the turn of the twentieth
                    century. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          The Keeper of the Bees. By Gene Stratton-Porter. (
            Bloomington

          : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. 515. Clothbound, $22.50; paperbound,
                    $12.95.) Another in the Indiana University Press's Library of
                        Indiana Classics series, The Keeper of the Bees is vintage Gene
                    Stratton-Porter. A wounded soldier, believed to be dying, heals himself with the help of nature,
                    Divine 
            Providence

          , and love. It is a story with a moral base, a romantic love interest, and a
                    considerable emphasis on nature study. Modern critics, as did those in Stratton-Porter's
                    day, can fault the author for her literary style and decry her "sugary
                    sentimentality," yet read in the context of the rising social problems and disillusionment
                    of the early twentieth century, the book is revelatory in its emphasis on honesty, integrity,
                    determination, hard work, and happy endings.  Completed just
                    before Stratton-Porter's accidental death in 1924, Keeper of the Bees is
                    somewhat more rambling and less refined—even more
                    "moralistic"—than earlier works, but readers who can accept it for what
                    it is will find a good story. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          A View of Home Place, Indiana. By Jack L. Edwards and Janet M. Edwards. (
            Noblesville
          , Ind.: The authors, 1992. Pp. 248. Illustrations. $56.00, plus tax. Order
                    from: Jack L. Edwards, 10475 Cornell Street, 
            Indianapolis
          , IN 46280.) This local history collection is a labor of love and of very hard work to
                    recover and preserve the history of a community in 
            Hamilton County

           from the early nineteenth century to 1990. The volume contains reproductions of earlier
                    histories, documents, and maps, chronologies, reminiscences, and many illustrations, some in color.
                    It will be a welcome source for long-time and new residents of a rapidly changing area of central
                    Indiana. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          View from the Statehouse: Recollections and Reflections, 1961–1965. By
                    Matthew E. Welsh. (1981; reprint, 
            Indianapolis

          : Indiana Historical Bureau and Indiana Friends of the Archives, 1992. Pp. xxix, 290.
                    Illustrations, tables, notes, map, appendixes, figures, index. Paperbound, $12.50.) No
                    other Indiana governor has provided so full and so compelling a view of an administration as Matthew
                    E. Welsh has in View from the Statehouse. Hoosiers are particularly fortunate to
                    have this fascinating record of a governor's years because these four, from 1961 to 1965,
                    are particularly important. From struggles over civil rights and taxation to turning back the
                    invasion of Alabama segregationist George C. Wallace, Governor Welsh was in the middle of
                    fundamental change in Indiana's history. This new printing of the 1981 volume by the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau and the Indiana Friends of the Archives is most welcome. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          Steel Shavings: Life in the Calumet Region during the 1980s. Edited by James B.
                    Lane. Volume XXI. (Gary, Ind.: Indiana University Northwest, 1992. Pp. 104. Illustrations.
                    Periodical, $6.00. Order from James B. Lane, History Department, Indiana University
                    Northwest, 3400 
            Broadway

          , Gary, IN 46408.) Here is another installment in one of the best and longest-running
                    local history projects in Indiana. James B. Lane and his colleagues and students present the Calumet
                    Region's recent past in words and pictures. Lance Trusty provides an overview of the
                    fundamental social, economic, and political changes of the 1980s. Stories and memories by region
                    residents suggest, sometimes poignantly, the range of human 
          
            EAST CHICAGO FIREMEN
              AT WORK, 1985
            Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University Northwest, Gary.
           experience in Indiana's most heterogeneous region. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          Indiana Landscapes. Photographs by Randall R. Shedd. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. 98. Cloth-bound, $29.95; paperbound,
                    $19.95.) Randall R. Shedd's beautiful color photographs of fields, waterfalls,
                    barns, and flowers give a hearty assent to the "Ain't God good to
                    Indiana" question. Some photographs are of scenes easily recognized by Hoosiers, such as
                    the covered bridge at 
            Turkey

           Run State Park, others of places more generic, but all are lovely to look at and to
                    ponder. This volume is the one to show relatives from California and other visitors not yet familiar
                    with the beauty of Indiana's landscape. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
        
          Young Abe 
              Lincoln
            : His Teenage Years in Indiana. By W. Fred Conway. (New 
            Albany
          , Ind.: FBH Publishers, 1992. Pp. 136. Illustrations, appendixes, table, maps, index.
                    Paperbound, $9.95, plus $3.00 postage. Order from FBH Publishers, P.O. Box
                    711, New 
            Albany
          , IN 47151.) W. Fred Conway's book is a highly readable overview of the
                    fourteen-year period Abraham 
            Lincoln
           spent in Indiana. While he does not use documentation in the book, Conway credits the
                    works of Francis 
            Marion
            Van
           Natter and Louis A. Warren as the sources for his information. Unfortunately, the work
                    of these two men was done over thirty years ago. Conway accepts many of Van Natter's
                    conclusions on 
            Lincoln
          's life during the Indiana period without investigating Van Natter's
                    research. Unique features of this book include the art work of 
            Lincoln
           collector Lloyd Ostendorf, useful charts and maps, and current information about the 
            Spencer County
           sites. William E. Bartelt, 
              Lincoln
             Boyhood National Memorial, 
              Lincoln City
            , Indiana.
        
          The Most Incredible Prison Escape of the Civil War. By W. Fred Conway. (New 
            Albany
          , Ind.: FBH Publishers, 1991. Pp. 119. Illustrations, map, index, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $9.95, plus $3.00 postage. Order from FBH Publishers, P.O. Box
                    711, New 
            Albany
          , IN 47151.) Captured after their ill-advised raid through southern Indiana and Ohio in
                    the summer of 1863 and assigned to the Ohio State Penitentiary in 
            Columbus

          , Confederate Brigadier General John Hunt Morgan and several of his men escaped from the
                    state prison on a rainy night in November after several months' incarceration. W. Fred
                    Conway's vivid writing style lends itself well to the story of Morgan's indeed
                    incredible escape. Based on firsthand descriptions, documents, and a number of secondary works,
                    Conway's account is not the potboiler its presentation might suggest. The author has
                    managed to maintain the suspense and fairytale-like aspects of the story without sacrificing its
                    factual base. An appendix contains a first person account of a similar and almost simultaneous
                    tunnel escape from Libby Prison. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          After 
              Columbus
            : The Smithsonian Chronicle of the North American Indians. By Herman J. Viola. (
            Washington
          , D.C., and 
            New York
          : Smithsonian Books and Orion Books, 1990. Pp. 288. Illustrations, maps, index.
                    $45.00.) On the eve of the Columbian Quincentennial, Herman J. Viola offered a
                    sympathetic yet balanced account of Native American history since the arrival of 
            Columbus

          . This work portrays the challenges and struggles faced by Indian people as they have
                    changed and adapted their ways in the face of the overwhelming pressures introduced by European
                    culture. Amply furnished with illustrations and photographs, this book demonstrates the diversity
                    and complexity of Native American  culture that continue to the
                    present. Paul Otto, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          "It's Your Misfortune and None of My Own": A History of the
                        American West. By Richard White. (
            Norman
          : University of Oklahoma Press, 1991. Pp. xix, 644. Maps, illustrations, tables,
                    bibliographies, figures, index. $39.95.) This lengthy textbook conveys its interpretation
                    through the title drawn from a cowboy ballad. White is indebted to Frederick 
            Jackson

           Turner and Ray Billington, but his perspective is not the frontier theory revisited.
                    Rather than discussing westward expansion as a process shaping the American character, this study
                    focuses on place, a physical entity defined by the Missouri River and the Pacific Ocean. The rest of
                        "It's Your Misfortune and None of My Own" is
                    characterized by themes of exploitation, conquest, and little empathy for those not of the dominant
                    European-American tradition. White's command of recent scholarship marks this as the
                    definitive interpretation of the new western history. Robert Reid, University of
                        Southern Indiana, 
              Evansville
            
          .
        
          America Eats. By Nelson Algren. (
            Iowa City

          : University of Iowa Press, 1992. Pp. xix, 123. Illustrations. $22.95.) In
                    1936 Nelson Algren needed some money, so he took a job with the Illinois Writers' Project
                    gathering midwestern foodways. Unfortunately the product was left to spoil because of wartime
                    mobilization. Today, however, it has been "warmed up" with the help of Chef Louis
                    Szathméry, who has tested and rewritten many of the recipes. Hoosier romantics will
                    appreciate the sections on an apple peelin' and a family reunion, and cooks will want to
                    try the recipes, including ones for Stuffed Suckling Pig and Lukefisk and Burgoo. Algren's
                    Midwest is not a melting pot but a vast stewing cauldron. 
            
              Chad
             Berry, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
        
          Mapping American Culture. Edited by 
            Wayne
            Franklin
           and Michael Steiner. (
            Iowa City

          : University of Iowa Press, 1992. Pp. vii, 310. Notes, illustrations, chart, index.
                    $32.95.) This collection of essays is part of a resurgence of academic interest in place
                    and culture in America. The eleven essays range from theoretical discussions of place to
                    examinations of midwestern women's autobiographies. Authors' perspectives are
                    generally from the disciplines of geography, literature, and American Studies. James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
              Bloomington
            
          .
      
      
      
        Letters to the Editor
        
          
            
              
                Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                
                Lana Ruegamer's review on Pluralism and Progressives: Hull
                                        House and the New Immigrants, 1890–1919 misinterprets the thesis
                                    of the book.

                I would like the reviewer to read carefully the Afterword of my book, and take notice
                                    of its last paragraph:
                    Hull House leaders did not have a pluralist view of society during the years
                                            1890 to 1919. Yet their concept of humanitarian social democracy and their
                                            benign policies of assimilation created a dynamic that unintentionally paved
                                            the way for a more pluralist view of society in the 1930s. Their opposition
                                            to the compulsory eradication of differences, their insistence that
                                            immigrant cultures be tolerated, contributed to the redefinition of
                                            liberalism in the 1930s. It was the inner logic of these attitudes that
                                            advanced the cause of pluralism.
                  
                
                
                  
                    
                      Hebrew University
                    
                    
                      Jerusalem, 
                          Israel
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  
                    Rivka S. Lissak
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        
          
            
              
                Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                
                Professor Lissak has not responded to my criticism: that "her evidence often
                                    does not support her conclusions"; that she "regularly fails to
                                    recognize ambiguity and problems of evidence"; and that "she
                                    simply ignores critiques of cultural pluralism by John Higham, Arthur Mann, and
                                    Stephan Thernstrom, among others."
                
                  
                    
                      Indiana University
                    
                    
                      
                        
                          Bloomington
                        , Indiana
                    
                  
                  
                    Lana Ruegamer
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        Letters to the editor are printed verbatim.
      
      
      
        Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
        Compiled by Leigh Darbee
        
          Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1988 to 1992 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or
                    accounts of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles
                    may be listed. All such items for the March, 1994, issue must be received by November 1, 1993. Many
                    people have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee
                    of the Indiana Historical Society.
        
          Bales, Fred, "Abolishment of Toll Roads Created Owner Hostility," Montgomery Magazine, XVII (April, 1992).
          Ball, Philip, History of 
                Muncie
              : A Town in Indiana Up to the Year 1991, and Other Hysterical Trivia ([
              Muncie
            ?: s.n.1, 1991). Order from: Philip Ball, 4915 N. Nebo Rd., 
              Muncie
            , IN 47304.
          Barrows, Robert G., "The 1920 Federal Census: A Note," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (December, 1992).

          Berwanger, Eugene H., ed., "‘absent So long from those I love’:
                        The Civil War Letters of Joshua Jones," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVIII (September, 1992).

          Bigelow, Bruce, "The Indiana School of Literature and Regional Culture,"
                        Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVI (1991).
          
          Binnie, Lester H., "Then and Now, 1834 to 1992: North 
              Manchester
            , Indiana to Stockdale, Near Roann," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, IX (August, 1992).

          Blackett, R. J. M., "Emma Lou Thornbrough and Her Work in Afro-American
                        History," Black History News & Notes, No. 48 (May, 1992).
          Boewe, Mary, "Aunt Tiny's Denominational Garden," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Summer, 1992). [About a character in
                        Alice Hegan Rice's novel Lovey Mary, who was based on Celestina R.
                        Phelps of 
              Martinsville
            .]
          Bollinger, Marian E., Crazy Quilt: A Library Ramble (
              South Whitley
            : Tranter Printing, [1991]). [A history of 
              South Whitley
            -
              Cleveland
             Township Public Library.] Order from: The library, 201 E. Front St., 
              South Whitley
            , IN 46787.
          Book, Orpha, "The Ku Klux Klan Activities in North 
              Manchester
            ," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, VIII (August, 1991).
          Boomhower, Ray, "Colonel William Jones: Friend of 
              Lincoln
            ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Fall,
                        1992).

          Boomhower, Ray, "The Father of Indiana History and the Devil's Lake
                        Monster," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Winter,
                        1992). [John B. Dillon.]
          Boomhower, Ray, "‘Old Faithful’: 
              Michigan City
            's Lighthouse Museum," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, IV (Summer, 1992).
          Boomhower, Ray, "Thomas R. Marshall: A First-Rate Wit," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Spring, 1992).

          Boris, Eileen, "The Settlement Movement Revisited: Social Control with a
                        Conscience," Reviews in American History, XX (June, 1992). [An essay
                        dealing in part with Ruth H. Crocker's Social Work and Social Order
                        (1992) about settlement houses in 
              Indianapolis
             and Gary.]

          Botscharow-Kamau, Lucy Jayne, "Neighbors: Harmony and Conflict on the Indiana
                        Frontier," Journal of the Early Republic, XI (Winter, 1991).
          "A Brief History in Words and Pictures of Mooreland and Blue River
                        Township," 
              Henry County
            
            Historicatalog, XIX (Fall, 1991).
          
            
              Brown
            , J. Thomas, Indiana State Normal School Fire Centennial Obseruance,
                            1888–1988 (
              Terre Haute
            : Indiana State University, 1988).
          
            
              Brown
            , J. Thomas, Public Accountability and Our Documentary Heritage: The
                            Indiana Access to Public Records Law (
              Indianapolis
            : Society of Indiana Archivists, 1988). Order from: The society, c/o Indiana
                        Historical Society, 315 W. Ohio St., 
              Indianapolis
            , IN 46202.
          
          "Bryan Steam: 75 Years, 73 Years in 
              Peru
            ," 
              Miami County
             Historical Society History Bulletin, XVIII (January, 1992).
          Bunker, L. Z., "100 Years of Housing in North 
              Manchester
            ," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, VIII (November, 1991).
          Bunker, L. Z., "The Young Hotel," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, IX (May, 1992).
          Burton, Eve Christine, Reflections of His Love ([Greenwood?: s.n., 1991]).
                        [History of Calvary Apostolic Church, Greenwood.]
          Cantrell, Martha, "
              Franklin
             Roosevelt Campaigns in 
              Crawfordsville
            ," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (December, 1991).
          Cantrell, Martha, "Love Letter Reveals Traumatic Life During Civil War," Montgomery Magazine, XVII (October, 1992). [1862 letter of John Harrell to his
                        family.]
          
            
              Carlisle

            , John C., "A Half Century of Public Art: The Heritage of the Indiana Post
                        Office Murals," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Summer,
                        1992).
          Carlson, Margaret, 
              
                Kentland
               and World War II from "The 
                Kentland
               Democrat" ([
              Kentland
            ?: s.n.], 1992). Order from: The author, 534 Carriage Ln., Gibson City, 
              IL
             60936.
          Castaldi, Thomas E., Cicott's Mill on the Upper 
                Wabash
              
             ([
              Fort Wayne
            : The author, 1991]). Order from: The author, Essex Group, P. O. Box 1601, 
              Fort Wayne
            , IN 46801.
          
            Celebrating God's Grace, 1940–1990: Good Shepherd Lutheran
                            Church, Medora, Indiana—Emmanuel Lutheran Church, Leesville,
                            Indiana ([Medora: s.n., 1991]). Order from: Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, P. O. Box
                        310, Medora, IN 47260.
          Chapman, Grover, "World War One," 
              Whitley County
             Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (August, 1992).
          "Christmas Past in 
              Whitley County
            ," 
              Whitley County
             Historical Society Bulletin, XXIX (December, 1991).
                        [Reminiscences.]
          
            
              Clay County
             Historical Society, 125th Anniversary of 
                Brazil
              , Indiana, 1866–1991 ([
              Brazil
            : 
              Clay County
             Historical Society, 1991]). Order from: The society, 100 E. National, 
              Brazil
            , IN 47834.
          Cline, Pat, 
              
                Crawfordsville
              , Indiana: A Pictorial History (
              St. Louis
            : G. Bradley Publishing, 1991). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing Co., 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
              St. Louis
            , MO 63131.
          Cogley, Thomas S., History of the Seventh Indiana Cavalry Volunteers
                                (
              Dayton, Ohio
            : Morningside House, 1991). [Reprint of 1876 edition.]
          Connor, Tina, and Gail N. Hunt, "Landmark in Jeopardy Finds Friends," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1992). [
              Indianapolis
             Athenaeum.]
          Conzen, Michael P., and Linda S. Lim, eds., Illinois Canal Country: The Early
                            Years in Comparative Perspective (
              Chicago
            :  University of 
              Chicago
            , Committee on Geographical Studies, 1991).
          Cord, 
              Xenia

            , "Indiana Applications to the Cherokee Restitution Appropriation of 1906:
                        A Little-Known Source for Black Genealogy," Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 50 (November, 1992).
          Cowger, Thomas W., "Custodians of Social Justice: The 
              Indianapolis
             Asylum for Friendless Colored Children, 1870–1922," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (June, 1992).

          Crumrin, Timothy R., "Holding a Course: Professor John J. Schlicher's
                        Dismissal from Indiana State Normal," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVIII (March, 1992).
          Cumbarelis, Glen, "Linden Was Once a Vibrant Two-Railroad Town," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (November, 1991).
          Darbee, Leigh, "John Melish's ‘Map of
                        Indiana,’" Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV
                        (Winter, 1992).
          Davis, Marsh, "Tudor Revival: Everything Old Is New Again," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1992).
          Deeter, Allen C., "Gladdys Muir in North 
              Manchester
            ," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, VIII (August, 1991).

          Delaney, Dave, "Hoosierville: A Tiny Burgh Clings to Its Spot on the Map,"
                            Outdoor Indiana, LVI (November/December, 1991).
          Dollase, Mark, "Riverside District's Preservation Ahead of Its
                        Time," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1992). [
              Evansville
            .]
          Dorson, Richard M., "The Folklore of Steel," Steel
                        Shavings, XIX (1990).
          Downey, Joseph R., Boyhood Days in 
                Irvington
              
            , ed. Larry 
              Muncie
             ([
              Indianapolis
            ]: 
              Irvington
             Historical Society, 1991).
          Dunbar, Richard, "Colorful Dish, Colorful Past," Outdoor
                            Indiana, LVI (NovembedDecember, 1991). [Indiana cranberries.]
          "Early Teaching Experiences in 
              Whitley County
            ," 
              Whitley County
             Historical Society Bulletin, XXX (October, 1992). [Reminiscences
                        by ten people who taught in the 1920s and 1930s.]
          Eckerman, Nancy L., "Practicing Medicine along the Indiana Frontier," AB Bookman's Weekly, LXXXIX (April 13, 1992).
          "The End of an Era," Ayrespeople (January, 1992). [The
                        closing of L. S. Ayres & Company, 
              Indianapolis
            .]
          Evans, Barbara Jean, The New A to Zax: A Comprehensive Genealogical Dictionary
                            for Genealogists and Historians. 2nd ed. ([Galveston, Tex.: Frontier Press, 1990]).
                        [Revised edition of A to Zax (1987).] Order from: Frontier Press, 15 Quintana
                        Dr., Galveston, 
              TX
             77554.
          
            Expect the Best: 25 Years of Excellence, 1966–1991 ([
              Indianapolis
            ?: s.n., 1991]). [History of the O'Malia grocery business in 
              Indianapolis
            .]
          

          Farmer, James E., "The Individual Roger: Governor Branigin and the News
                        Media," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Spring, 1992).
          Fenster, J. M., "Indy," American Heritage, XLII (May/June,
                        1992). [The 
              Indianapolis
             500.]
          Fields, Helen C., A History of the Settlement House Movement in Gary,
                        Indiana ([Gary: Gary Neighborhood Services, Inc., 1992?]).

          Fletcher, Stephen J., "The Business of Exposure: Lewis Hine and Child Labor
                        Reform," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Spring, 1992).
                        [Images of child laborers in Indiana.]
          Friedberger, Mark, "The Transformation of the Rural Midwest,
                        1945–1985," The Old Northwest, XVI (Spring, 1992).
          
            
              Fulton
            , William R., William Roy 
                Fulton
              : The Education and Life of a Dentist, ed. A. P. Sohn ([s.l.: s.n., 1992]).
                        [Transcription of an oral history interview of Dr. Fulton, the oldest living graduate of Indiana
                        University Dental School; copy at Indiana Historical Society Library, 
              Indianapolis
            .]

          George, Angelo I., and Gary A. O'Dell, "The Saltpeter Works at Mammoth Cave
                        and the New Madrid Earthquake," The Filson Club History Quarterly,
                        LXVI (January, 1992).

          Gibbs, Wilma L., comp., "African-American Printed Sources at the Indiana Historical
                        Society," Black History News & Notes, No. 47 (February,
                        1992).

          Gibbs, Wilma L., "Connecting the Dots: The Quest to Gather the History of
                        African-Americans in Indiana. A Question and Answer Approach," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 48 (May, 1992).
          [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "New Bethel Baptist Church Collection," Black History News & Notes, No. 46 (November, 1991).
          [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Researching Your Family History," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 50 (November, 1992).

          Goldhar, Jeanette, and Frances Nelson, "‘As We Remember’: Early
                        History of the Jewish Community in Gary, Indiana," Indiana Jewish
                        History, No. 28 (1992).
          Gray, Marlesa A., The Archaeological Investigations of Fort 
                Knox
               II, 
                Knox County
              , Indiana, 1803–1813 (
              Bloomington
            : Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, 1988).
          Greiner, Ned H., Gas Boom Society (
              Muncie
            : Minnetrista Cultural Foundation, Inc., 1991).
          Griebel, Helen Bradley, "
              Carroll County
             Rug Hookers: Morphology of a Craft," Midwestern
                        Folklore, XVII (Spring, 1991).
          Griflin, Frederick P., comp., History of Corydon and 
                Harrison County
              , Indiana: A Scrapbook of Newspaper Clippings. Vol. I (Paoli: Willow Creek
                        Printing, 1991). Order from: Griffin's, Inc., Box 446, Corydon, IN 47112.
          

          Hale, Michelle, "Self-Help Moves from the Neighborhood to the Nation: Flanner House,
                        1936–1953," Black History News & Notes, No. 46
                        (November, 1991).
          Harrison, Kim S., ed., Sultana: Index to Rev. C#2 D. Berry's Loss
                        of the Sultana and Reminiscences of Survivors (New Hudson, Mich.: The editor,
                        1991). Order from: The editor, 55832 Pontiac Trail Ct., New Hudson, MI 48165.
          Hartig, James P., and Gertrude L. Ward, Gaar Houses, 
                Richmond
              , Indiana (
              Centerville
            : Neighborhood Preservation Services, 1991).
          
            Historical Indiana: A Guide to Indiana Properties Listed in the National Register
                            of Historic Places (
              Indianapolis
            : Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Historic Preservation and
                        Archaeology, [1992]). [List complete through December 31, 1991.]
          Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Center Township, 
                Marion County
              : Interim Report ([
              Indianapolis
            : Historic Landmarks Foundation], 1991).
          Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
              
                Decatur
              , Perry and 
                Franklin
               Townships, 
                Marion County
              : Interim Report (
              Indianapolis
            : Historic Landmarks Foundation, 1992).
          Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
              
                Hamilton County
              : Interim Report ([
              Indianapolis
            ]: Historic Landmarks Foundation, 1992).
          Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
              
                Perry County
              : Interim Report ([
              Indianapolis
            ]: Historic Landmarks Foundation, 1992).
          
            History of Memorial Baptist Church [
                Indianapolis
              ] ([
              Indianapolis
            : The church, 1991]). Order from: Memorial Baptist Church, 3310 W. 18th St., 
              Indianapolis
            , IN 46222.
          
            History of Musicians Club of 
                Evansville
              , Inc., 1946–1991 ([
              Evansville
            ]: The club, 1991).
          Hulse, Lamont J., Museums in Indiana: Their Status and Needs. A Report Prepared
                            for the Association of Indiana Museums (
              Indianapolis
            : POLIS Research Center, 1991).
          Hunter, Carol, et al., "African-American Resistance in Antebellum
                        Indiana," Black History News & Notes, No. 49 (August, 1992).
          Hunter, Juanita, 
              
                Logansport
               and the Michigan Road ([
              Logansport
            ]: 
              Cass County
             Historical Society, 1990). Order from: The society, 1004 E. Market St., 
              Logansport
            , IN 46947.
          Hunter, Juanita, "
              Marshall County
             and the Michigan Road, Part I," 
              Marshall County
             Historical Society Quarterly, XX (1991).
          Hunter, Juanita, "
              Marshall County
             and the Michigan Road, Part II," 
              Marshall County
             Historical Society Quarterly, XXI (1992).

          Hurley, Andrew, "Challenging Corporate Polluters: Race, Class, and Environmental
                        Politics in Gary, Indiana, since 1945," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVIII (December, 1992).
          
          Indiana State Museum, The 
                Richmond
               Collection: Mrs. Johnston's Vision. Selections from the 
                Richmond
               Art Museum at the Indiana State Museum, March 2 to September 16, 1990 ([
              Indianapolis
            : Indiana State Museum, 1990]).
          
            
              Indianapolis
             Civil War Roundtable, The Next Eleven Years: Addendum to the First 25
                            Years ([
              Indianapolis
            : The roundtable, 1991]).
          Irwin Library, Lincolniana, Addendum II. The Donald C. Durman Files: 
                Lincoln
               Portraits in Stone, Wood, and Bronze (
              Indianapolis
            : 
              Butler
             University, Irwin Library, 1991).

          Johnson, Bruce L., "Bruce Rogers of Indiana: Book Designer and Illustrator,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Spring, 1992).
          Jones, Steve, "After the Boom: The Demise of the Indiana 
              Prairie
             Chicken," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV
                        (Spring, 1992).
          
            
              Jordan

            , John M., "A Small World of Little Americans: The $1 Diplomacy
                        of Wendell Willkie's One World," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LXXXVIII (September, 1992).

          Joss, Liz, "The 1992 List of the Ten Most Endangered Landmarks in Indiana,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Fall, 1992).
          Kotzbauer, Amy, "Architecture Designed for the Common Man," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1992). [Shingle and Stick style
                        houses.]
          Krueger, Martin T., Two Speeches of the Mayor [of 
                Michigan City
              ] (
              Michigan City
            : 
              Michigan City
             Historical Society, 1989). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 512, 
              Michigan City
            , IN 46360.
          "L. S. Ayres & Company History Spans 120 Year Period," 
              
                Indianapolis
               Postcard Club, XVIII (April, 1992).
          Lane, James B., ed., "Calumet Region Steelworkers’ Tales," Steel Shavings, XIX (1990).
          Lane, James B., ed., "Life in the Calumet Region During the 1980s," Steel Shavings, XXI (1992).
          Lawson, Charles E., Surveying Your Land: A Common-Sense Guide to Surveys, Deeds,
                            and Title Searches (Woodstock, Vt.: Countryman Press, 1990).
          Lenkowsky, Kate, The Herman Kahn Center of the Hudson Institute (
              Indianapolis
            : Hudson Institute, 1991). [History of the former 
              Laurel
             Hall, home of Stoughton A. Fletcher III, in 
              Indianapolis
            .] Order from: Hudson Institute, Herman Kahn Center, P. O. Box 26–919, 
              Indianapolis
            , IN 46226.
          Levin, Daniel, "A Litvak in 
              Hammond
            ," Indiana Jewish History, No. 28 (1992).
          Lewis, Ermel, Memoirs of Crane Naval Weapons Support Center (Shoals: Country
                        Pines, Inc., 1992). Order from: Ermel Lewis, 3933 
              Washington
             Ave., 
              Bedford
            , IN 47421.
          
          Lewis, Patricia, ed., Memories of Early 
                Michigan City
              
             (
              Michigan City
            : 
              Michigan City
             Historical Society, [1990]). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 512, 
              Michigan City
            , IN 46360.
          Lutholtz, M. William, "The Prince and the Pulitzer," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Winter, 1992). [Frank Prince of the 
              Indianapolis
            
            Times.]
          
          McGee, B. F., History of the 72d Indiana Volunteer Infantry of the Mounted
                            Lightning Brigade (
              Huntington
            , W.Va.: Blue Acorn Press, 1992). [Reissue of 1882 edition, with additional
                        material.3
          
            The Mansion at Aluerna Estates: A History (
              Indianapolis
            : Resort Condominiums International, [1992]). [About "Four Winds,"
                        the chateau-style house of Hugh McKennan Landon, in 
              Indianapolis
            .]
          Martindale, Bob, Whimsey and Fate. Vol. II, Letters and
                        Diaries (
              Baltimore
            : Gateway Press, Inc., 1991).
          Masonic temples in Indiana. Series of articles in Indiana Preservationist,
                        No. 1 (January/February, 1992).
          Matthews, Jack, Memoirs of a Bookman (
              Athens
            : Ohio University Press, 1990).
          Matthews, Jack, ed., Rare Book Lore: Selections from the Letters of Ernest J.
                            Wessen (
              Athens
            : Ohio University Press, 1992). [Wessen was proprietor of the Midland Rare Book Co.,
                                
              Mansfield, Ohio
            .]
          
            Memories of the 
                Michigan City
               Lighthouse (
              Michigan City
            : 
              Michigan City
             Historical Society, 1991). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 512, 
              Michigan City
            , IN 46360.
          Meyers, Arthur, "A Cross Blazed in Every Park in 
              Hammond
            ," Indiana Jewish History, No. 28 (1992).
          
            The Midwest: A Collection from Harper's Magazine (
              New York
            : Gallery Books, 1991).
          Moore, Leonard, "Indiana and the Klan: A Review Essay," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (June, 1992).
          
            
              Muncie
            , Larry, "Annexation: 
              Irvington
             Joins the City [of 
              Indianapolis
            ]," 
              
                Irvington
               History Page (February, 1991).
          Munger, Elizabeth M., A History of the Trail Creek Region [
                Michigan City
              ] (
              Michigan City
            : 
              Michigan City
             Historical Society, 1988). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 512, 
              Michigan City
            , IN 46360.
          Munger, Elizabeth M., 
              
                Michigan City
              's First Hundred Years (
              Michigan City
            : 
              Michigan City
             Historical Society, 1990). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 512, 
              Michigan City
            , IN 46360.
          
            
              Murray
            , Thomas E., "A New Look at the Folk Speech of Railroading," Midwestern Folklore, XVII (Spring, 1991).
          Nellis, Caroline, "Bosse Field: 
              Evansville
            's Field of Dreams," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, IV (Summer, 1992).
          
          Neville, Susan "
              Nineveh
            ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Fall,
                        1992).
          Niendorf, Deloris R., 
              
                St. Paul
               Evangelical Lutheran Church, U. A. C., Otis, 
                La Porte County
              , Indiana: An Historical Record ([
              La Porte
            ]: D. R. Niendorf, 1989). Order from: Deloris Niendorf, 1103 W. 19th St., 
              La Porte
            , IN 46350.
          Noblitt, Loren W., The Composite History of 
                Jackson County
              , Indiana, 1816–1991. [Vol. II] (Paducah, Ky.: Turner
                        Publishing, 1991).

          Nolan, Jane, and Linda Weintraut, "The Right Water, the Right Mud, and the Right
                        Place: The Story Behind Mudlavia," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, IV (Winter, 1992).
          Oestreicher, Richard, "Saint Gene [Debs]: A Review Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (March, 1992).
          Patrick, Jeff L., "‘We Lay There Doing Nothing’: John 
              Jackson
            's Recollection of the War of 1812," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LXXXVIII (June, 1992).
          Perry, Henry Fales, History of the Thirty-Eighth Regiment, Indiana Volunteer
                            Infantry (Paoli: 
              Orange County
             Genealogical Society, 1992). [Reproduction of the 1906 edition, with a name index
                        added.] Order from: The society, P. O. Box 344, Paoli, IN 47454.
          Petry, Lloyd and Marilyn, The Birth of Fort St. Clair, 1792–1992
                        ([Eaton, 
              Ohio
            ?: s.n.], 1991). Order from: The authors, 724 W. Main St., Eaton, OH 45320.
          Plotinsky, Anita Heppner, "Music, Philanthropy, and Patriotism: 
              Indianapolis
             in June, 1886," 
              Marion County
            -
              Indianapolis
             Historical Society Circular, XIII (Fall, 1992).
          Priddy, Louis H., comp., Jazz & Swing In and Around 
                Madison County
               Before and After W[orld] W[ar] II (Anderson: American Federation of
                        Musicians, Local 32, [1992]). Order from: Howard Vansickle, 6038 Allisonville Rd., 
              Indianapolis
            , IN 46220.

          Quigg, Gary, "Interurban Power Plant Served Community [Craw-fordsville]
                        Well," Montgomery Magazine, XVII (March, 1992).
          Rafert, Stewart, "Ozahshinquah: A Miami Woman's Life," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Spring, 1992).
          Rebber, Elizabeth, 
              
                Seymour
              : A Pictorial History (
              St. Louis
            : G. Bradley Publishing, 1991). Order from: G. Bradley Publishing Co., 461 Des Peres
                        Rd., 
              St. Louis
            , MO 63131.

          Rennick, Robert M., "Cecil Charles As an East Central Indiana Places Names Tradition
                        Bearer," Midwestern Folklore, XVII (Spring, 1991).

          Resneck, Daniel, "Rube, Hick, and Pioneer Recording Artist: Uncle Josh of the
                        Phonograph," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Fall,
                        1992). [Cal Stewart.]
          
          Riley, Martha Chrisman, Singing Indiana History: A Musical Resource Guide for
                            Teachers (
              Delphi
            : Riverside Productions, 1992). [Book and three cassette tapes.] Order from:
                        Riverside Productions, P. O. Box 26, 
              Delphi
            , IN 46923.

          Riggins, Stephen H., "If Work Made People Rich: An Oral History of General Farming,
                        1905–1925," Midwestern Folklore, XVII (Fall, 1991).
                        [Ledgerwood family of Martin County.]
          Robinson, Robert V., and Carl M. Briggs, "The Rise of Factories in Nineteenth-Century 
              Indianapolis
            , [1850–1880]," American Journal of Sociology,
                        XCVII (November, 1991).
          Rogers, Lynn, et al., Some History of 
                Milton
               Baptist Church, 1829–1888, 
                Milton
               Twsp., 
                Jefferson County
              , In[Diana] ([
              Jamestown,
                                Ohio
            ?: s.n.], 1992). Order from:
                        Lynn Rogers, 3945 N. Lake Shore Dr., 
              Jamestown
            , OH 45335.

          Roller, Scott, "Business As Usual: Indiana's Response to the Confederate
                        Invasions of the Summer of 1863," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVIII (March, 1992).
          Schlereth, Thomas J., A Dome of Learning: The University of Notre Dame's
                            Main Building ([Notre Dame]: Notre Dame Alumni Association, 1991).
          Schlereth, Thomas J., A Spire of Faith: The University of Notre Dame's
                            Sacred Heart Church ([Notre Dame]: Notre Dame Alumni Association, 1991).
          Schurr, Mark R., An Archaeological Survey of La Grange County, Indiana (
              Bloomington
            : Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, 1991). Order from:
                        The author, Dept. of Anthropology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
          Schurr, Mark R., Exploring the Foundations of Notre Dame (Notre Dame:
                        University of Notre Dame, Dept. of Anthropology, 1992). Order from: The author, Dept. of
                        Anthropology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556.

          Sehlinger, Peter J., "Personality, Politics, and Diplomacy: Claude G. Bowers and the
                        State Department, 1933–1939," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXVI (1991).
          Shortz, Wilma, "Soil Conservation District Organized in 1940," Montgomery Magazine, XVII (January, 1992).
          "Slave Days in 
              Old Vincennes

            : Records Uncovered in Court House Basement Showing Forty-Six Slaves Held in This
                        Territory," The Hoosier Genealogist, XXXII (March, 1992). [Reprint of
                        article from the 
              Vincennes
            
            Morning Commercial, July 26, 1916.]
          Smith, Andrew F., "Dr. John Cook Bennett's Tomato Campaign," The Old Northwest, XVI (Spring, 1992).
          Smith, John Martin, History of 
                De Kalb County
              , Indiana. 3 vols. (
              Auburn
            : Natmus, Inc., 1992). [Previously published as 
              
                De Kalb County
              , 1837–1987.] Order from: Natmus, Inc., Box 686, 
              Auburn
            , IN 46706.
          
          Spellman, Robert L., "Delavan Smith and the 
              Indianapolis
            
            News: Mugwumpism and Conservatism in the Same Pot" (1992).
                        [Typescript; located at the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
              Indianapolis
            .]

          Spetter, Allan, "The Historian (Albert T. Volwiler) and the Presidential Widow (Mrs.
                        Benjamin Harrison): A Twenty Year Correspondence," The Old Northwest,
                        XVI (Summer, 1992).
          Storer, Fern, "Roots in Education," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, IX (February, 1992).
          Stuckey, Clay W., "A Pictorial History of the West Baden Springs Hotel"
                        (1989). [Typescript; located at the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
              Indianapolis
            .]
          Taylor, Fr. Kenneth, "Catholic Education to the Black Community," Black History News & Notes, No. 49 (August, 1992).

          Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "Soaking, Sluicing, and Stewing in Hoosier Mineral
                        Waters," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Winter, 1992).
          Thompson, Donald, "Critic Sends Protest to Wallace About Books," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (December, 1991). [Responses to Ben-Hur.]
          Thompson, Donald, "Susan Wallace Writes About Civil War Experiences," Montgomery Magazine, XVII (February, 1992).
          Thompson, Donald, "Susan Wallace Writes of Dismal Journey to 
              Mexico
            ," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (September, 1991).
          Thompson, Donald, "Susan Wallace Writes of Fort Stanton Experiences," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (November, 1991).
          Thompson Donald, "Susan Wallace Writes of Ocean Trip Experiences," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (October, 1991). [Voyage to 
              Turkey
             at the time Lew Wallace became U. S. consul.]
          Thompson, Jean, "AAUW Organized a Branch in [
              Montgomery
            ] County in 1925," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (September,
                        1991).
          Thompson, Joanna Rebecca, "Against the Grain: Deshee Farm, a New Deal Experiment in
                        National Planning" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University, 1992).
          Tolzmann, Don Heinrich, ed., Ohio Valley 
                German
               Biographical Index (Bowie, Md.: Heritage Books, 1992).

          Vanausdall, Jeanette, "‘A Miracle of Rare Device’: Images of
                        the West Baden Springs Hotel," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, IV (Winter, 1992).
          Vanausdall, Jeanette, "‘A Worthy Story’: The 
              Indianapolis
             Retirement Home," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, IV (Fall, 1992).
          
            
              Vanderburgh County
             Historical Society, A Chronology of the Old 
                Vanderburgh County
               Courthouse, Jail, and Sheriffs Residence ([
              Evansville
            : 
              Vanderburgh County
             Historical Society], 1990).  Order from: The
                        society, Old Courthouse, Room 105, 201 NW 4th St., 
              Evansville
            , IN 47708.
          Vogelgesang, Susan, "Zerelda Wallace: Indiana's Conservative
                        Radical," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Summer,
                        1992).
          "Wallace Shares Memories of Maurice Thompson," Montgomery
                            Magazine, XVII (August, 1992). [Reprint of 1901 
              Indianapolis
            
            News article by Lew Wallace.]
          Ward, Gertrude Luckhardt, The Frederick Landwehr Family and Their Stores (
              Centerville
            : Neighborhood Preservation Services, 1991). [Family in grocery business in 
              Richmond
            .]

          Weber, Catherine E Forrest, "Robert Louis Stevenson's Hoosier Wife: A Love
                        Story," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IV (Fall, 1992).
                        [Fanny Van de Grift of 
              Indianapolis
            .]
          Whorrall, Bill, Martin County, Indiana, USA: A Photo Documentation (Shoals:
                        Country Pines, Inc., 1992).
          Whorrall, Bill, Woven Hills & Quilted Rocks: Folk Artists in Martin
                            County, Indiana (Shoals: Country Pines, Inc., 1991).
          Wiemer, Orpha J., "Campus Memory [
              Manchester
             College]," North 
              Manchester
             Historical Society Newsletter, IX (May, 1992).

          Woodcock, Roger, "C[ivilian] C[onservation] C[orps] Lives on at Pokagon,"
                            Outdoor Indiana, LVI (November/December, 1991).
          Wynkoop, Mary Ann, "Dissent in the Heartland: The Student Protest Movement at Indiana
                        University, 
              Bloomington
            , Indiana, 1965–1970" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        1992).
          Young, James Harvey, "Two Hoosiers and the Two Food Laws of 1906," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (December, 1992).

          Young, Noraleen A., "Books at War: Indiana's Libraries During W[orld] W[ar]
                        I," Indiana Libraries, X (1991).
          Young, Noraleen A., "‘On My Honor I Will Try’: Girl Scouting in
                        Central Indiana Since 1917," 
              Marion County
            -
              Indianapolis
             Historical Society Circular, XII (Fallminter, 1991).
          Yount, Newlin Hoover, Pearls Along the 
                Wabash
              : The Reminiscences of Newlin Hoover Yount, ed. & comp. Doris
                        Holtman Cottingham (
              Williamsport
            : 
              Warren County
             Historical Society, 1991). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 176, Williams-port,
                        IN 47993.
          "Yountsville Church Celebrates 150th Anniversary," Montgomery
                            Magazine, XVII (June, 1992).
          Zach, Karen, "Wesley Citizens Saw Need of an Academy for Teachers," Montgomery Magazine, XVI (October, 1991). [Wesley Academy.]
        
      
    
    
      
      
      
    
  
