
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 8, Issue 4, pages 149-200. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:8+issue:4+year:1912&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            MORGAN'S RAID IN INDIANA.
            BY MARGRETTE BOYER
            [The following painstaking study of Morgan's Raid in Indiana was prepared as a thesis by
                    Miss Boyer, a student in 
                        Butler
                     College. It is the fullest account we have seen, and as such we are glad to give it
                    publicity, believing it to be a valuable addition to the literature that exists on this romantic
                    episode of our State's history.—EDITOR.]
            A STUDY of Morgan's raid in Indiana reveals that it was important in the history of the
                    State and of the nation. It is not from a military standpoint, however, that we can estimate the
                    historical value of this dashing exploit. It had practically no influence upon the outcome of the
                    Civil War, and it failed in all that it meant to accomplish. Contrary to its designed purpose of
                    working injury to the Union cause, the raid ultimately proved a blessing. The State of Indiana
                    seemed for a time to be wavering in its loyalty. The raid offered an opportunity for the Indiana
                    people to show their devotion to the national government, and they did so nobly. Indiana proved
                    herself staunchly bound to the Union. This Morgan's raid did accomplish, and for this
                    reason it deserves a place in history.
            General Morgan's theory of waging war was to go deep into the heart of the enemy's
                    country. He had sought long and earnestly for permission to put this theory into practice. A raid
                    into 
                        Ohio
                     had long been his fondest dream and now, about the middle of June, 1863, upon his
                    arrival in 
                  Alexandria, Kentucky
               , the golden opportunity seemed to lie before him.
                    The situation in 
                        Tennessee
                     was daily growing more pressing for the Confederate armies there. It was soon evident
                    that some solution for their problem must be found. General Bragg's army lay at 
                        Tullahome
                     in 
                        Central Tennessee
                     with his calvalry covering his front. General 
                    Buckner was in 
                        East Tennessee
                     with an inadequate force. General Bragg was confronted by General Rosecrans's
                    superior force, and Major-General Burnside was planning an invasion of 
                        East Tennessee
                     with his cavalry under Colonel Sanders. Bragg dared not strengthen Buckner nor could
                    Buckner send aid to Bragg. Unless some movement were set on foot to call away Federal attention, the
                    Confederates in 
                        Tennessee
                     would be trapped. The situation generally, for the Confederates, demanded some
                    diversion, and here was Morgan's chance. A raid through Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    , he thought, would call the attention of the Federal troops away from Bragg's
                    retreat, would require that they lessen their forces to pursue the raiders, would prevent the
                    junction of the Federal forces in 
                        Tennessee
                    , and would check Burnside's invasion of 
                        East Tennessee
                    . Morgan was confident that such a raid would keep the Union forces busy for weeks.
            General Bragg was shrewd enough to see the value of a raid at this time, but was more conservative
                    than Morgan. He thought a raid in 
                        Kentucky
                     alone, having as its object the capture of 
                        Louisville
                    , would serve the purpose of a diversion without the unnecessary wide separation of his
                    forces. Morgan said that one of his main objects was to draw troops away from Rosecrans and that a
                    raid in 
                        Kentucky
                     would he too close at hand and too soon ended to accomplish this. Morgan wished to
                    sweep all before him, cut off all railway communications around 
                        Louisville
                     so that no reenforcements could be sent there, dash through Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     and bring the raid to a close at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Buckner would capture 
                        Louisville
                     and join Morgan in 
                        Ohio
                    . Buckner's part in this plan was prevented by the unexpected advance of
                    Rosecrans. In spite of Morgan's objections, General Rragg's orders stated that
                    Morgan should make the raid, but expressly forbade his crossing the 
                        Ohio
                    . With characteristic recklessness, Morgan determined to disregard his orders and make
                    the raid according to his own plans. The raid in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     in July, 1863, was, then, in disobedience of strict orders. Had the raid been a
                    brilliant success, this fact might have been winked at by the Confederacy. As it was a failure in
                    its object and a  disaster to Morgan and the brave men who
                    followed him, it discomfited the South and they have never quite forgiven Morgan's
                    disobedience.
            Morgan's confidence in the success of his enterprise was based upon the open disaffection
                    for the Union cause in Indiana. The discontent was roused by the Peace Democrats. Letters to awaken
                    discontent and cause desertion were sent into the Federal army, and the newspapers were full of
                    treasonable articles. Public meetings were held to denounce the government and our soldiers for
                    suppressing the rebellion. General Burnside felt great anxiety at the state of affairs in the
                    Northwest, occasioned, he said, by selfish politicians. The work of the army was delayed because of
                    fears of domestic traitors. It became necessary to call General Willcox from his plans in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     into Indiana to the difficult task of settling trouble arising from disloyal citizens.
                    Secret societies known as the "Sons of Liberty," "Knights of the Golden
                    Circle" and numerous others were organized by sympathizers for the Southern cause. While
                    they probably could have done no real harm, and while they were at all times under the thumb of
                    Governor Morton, they did tend to foster a feeling of distrust among neighbors and of discontent and
                    restlessness among soldiers throughout Indiana. Such sentiments, if allowed to grow, would have
                    resulted disastrously to the State. The South had formed an exaggerated idea of the strength and
                    influence of these Southern sympathizers, and it was under this false impression that Morgan entered
                    Indiana, expecting aid, comfort and sympathy on his way. It is very probable that without this hope
                    of sympathy, Morgan never would have attempted the raid.
            Morgan was well prepared for carrying out this pet project. His men were in fine trim, and the
                    effective strength of his command May 26, 1863, was 2,800. The whole force was at this time provided
                    with excellent new clothing and Morgan's favorite guns; their horses were in fairly good
                    condition and they could gather others on the raid. The Second Kentucky Morgan called his
                    "Regulars." They had been with him on all his expeditions and were proficient,
                    dashing and reliable. It is difficult to ascertain  the number
                    of men Morgan had with him on the Indiana-
                        Ohio
                     raid. About three thousand is usually given as his force. Basil W. Duke says Morgan
                    never had more than four thousand men, and in one of Morgan's letters he says he is certain
                    that he can accomplish everything with two thousand men. Fear and false rumors led to estimates of
                    Morgan's force as high as eight and ten thousand. It was not by numbers that Morgan
                    expected to succeed, but rather by dash and boldness, for which he was well equipped.
            In striking contrast to this able body of cavalry was the unorganized preparation for defense in
                    Indiana, when the startling intelligence came that Morgan, the terrible, was headed this way.
                    Governor Morton had generously responded to a call for help from General Royle at 
                        Louisville
                     when 
                        Kentucky
                     was invaded, and had sent the Seventy-first Indiana, two companies of the Third Indiana
                    and the Twenty-third Battery. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was left with little defense. Two companies of the Sixty-third Indiana were stationed
                    at the Soldiers' Home, and on the southern border of the State was the Indiana Legion, a
                    loose aggregation of citizens with little military training or discipline and practically unarmed.
                    Their most serious need was for cavalry, there being no more than two hundred regular cavalry with a
                    small number of mounted citizens. General Willcox was in charge of the Indiana military forces in
                    Indiana, and he and Governor Morton cooperated quickly and ably in collecting forces. Troops were
                    ordered from 
                        Michigan
                    , ammunition from 
                        Washington
                    , and all railway cars and locomotives in the State were kept in readiness for the
                    transportation of troops. On July 9, Governor Morton issued his General Order announcing the
                    presence of the enemy and calling for all the white male citizens south of the National Road to form
                    themselves into companies of at least sixty, to drill, arm themselves, choose officers and await
                    further orders. The men were to be mounted if possible. The Legion officers and leading citizens
                    were requested to assist in carrying out the order and to report to the Governor. Gunboats were
                    ordered to patrol the 
                        Ohio
                     river and passenger steamers were pressed into this service.
            
            Excitement was at fever heat throughout the State. Exaggerated rumors were afloat, homes near the
                    southern border were abandoned, and many had forethought enough to hurry their horses northward.
                    Everywhere citizens were answering the call for troops. Grain was left to rot in the fields, tools
                    were dropped, stores closed, books and desks abandoned and the loyal citizens swarmed to the
                    defense. The roads leading into 
                        Indianapolis
                     were clouded with the dust raised by hurrying thousands; railway trains rushed into the
                    city bearing great numbers of volunteers, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     resembled a huge barracks, every open lot and square, vacant building or hall serving
                    as quarters for troops. In two days there were 20,000 troops in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 45,000 more were organized over the State ready to move at a moment's
                    notice. This means 65,000 soldiers all collected and equipped in forty-eight hours—a
                    record of which Indiana can be justly proud. General Willcox immediately placed these troops where
                    they were most needed. The troops were raw, but they could scour the country felling trees in
                    Morgan's road and destroying bridges. The Legion and Minutemen, about 2,000 strong, were
                    placed under Major-General James Hughes. The forces were divided into the Eastern and Western
                    divisions, the Western division being at 
                        Mitchell
                    , and the Eastern division at 
                        Madison
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    , with orders to destroy all boats that might aid Morgan in crossing. At 
                        Jeffersonville
                     $4,000,000 worth of supplies also had to be guarded. General Hobson with a
                    strong cavalry force was in constant pursuit.
            Not anticipating such vigorous defense in Indiana, Morgan with his entire force came boldly on toward
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . By Tuesday, July 7, they reached 
                  Brandenburg, Kentucky
               , about
                    forty miles below 
                        Louisville
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    . While the forces were halted on the river bank, the steamer "John T.
                    McCoombs," bound up the river, stopped, as was its custom, at 
                        Brandenburg
                    , and was immediately boarded and captured by Morgan's men. Signals of distress
                    were sent up by this vessel and when the "Alice Dean" answered the call for aid,
                    she too fell into the hands of the raiders. With these two boats, crossing was facilitated and was
                    at once begun. A part of the forces had succeeded  in crossing
                    when, July 8, a gunboat suddenly made its appearance, causing consternation among the Confederate
                    forces. No shots seemed to harm the gunboat, and had it held its position, Morgan's forces
                    would have been hopelessly divided and the raid nipped in the bud, but, as suddenly as it had come,
                    it turned and left the scene. Morgan's men with shouts of joy resumed the task of crossing.
                    By night, July 8, the forces were safely across into Indiana, and, having taken everything of use
                    from both the captured steamers, Morgan's men abandoned the "McCoombs"
                    and burned the "Alice Dean." It seems curious that Morgan was not intercepted at 
                        Brandenburg
                    . He was on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     for thirty-six hours, yet he was not molested except by one gunboat which accomplished
                    nothing. A small unorganized Federal force had gathered on the bank on the Indiana side, but they
                    were soon worsted and driven back toward Corydon, two pickets being captured. That night
                    Morgan's men encamped just four miles out of Corydon. Skirmishing was kept up during the
                    night, and plundering began early. The mill owned by Mr. Peter Lapp, which was situated on Buck
                    creek three miles from the river, was burned to the ground. The inhabitants had fled to the woods
                    upon hearing of the approach of the enemy, and pillaging was easy, the marauders finding
                    "larders unlocked, fires on the hearths, bread half made up and the chickens parading about
                    the doors with a confidence that was touching but misplaced."
            Early Thursday morning, July 9, Morgan advanced on Corydon. At Corydon was stationed Colonel Jordan,
                    of the Sixth Indiana Legion, with about 400 men. On July 8, he sent to General Boyle for
                    reenforcements but these failed to arrive in time to save the town. As Morgan approached Corydon,
                    Jordan fell back one mile from the town and formed into battle line. At 10 o'clock in the
                    morning the attack began and was vigorously repelled. However, 
                        Jordan
                    's men were outnumbered eight to one, besides the disparity in arms and
                    training, and could not hope to hold out long. 
                        Jordan
                     saw the folly of fighting against such odds and surrendered with 345 men, whom Morgan
                    soon parolled. The loss to Morgan's forces was eight killed and  thirty-three wounded, while 
                        Jordan
                     lost three killed and two wounded. Morgan entered the town and took possession. Much
                    damage was done to the stores, Douglas & Denbo Company, clothiers, sustaining a loss of
                    $3,500, while mill owners were forced lo pay $1,000 to save their mills from
                    being burned. The women, sulky and frightened, prepared meals at the point of guns. Morgan was
                    surprised to find the country in so thrifty a condition in time of war, more than 500 horses being
                    captured in the vicinity of Corydon. Two prominent citizens were captured and placed at the front of
                    Morgan's columns as they marched through the streets, and the danger to these esteemed
                    townsmen deterred the people from firing upon the invaders.
            Leaving his wounded, Morgan hastened on northward, dividing his forces so as to cover a wider sweep
                    of country and to threaten the important railway centers of 
                        Mitchell
                    , 
                  New Albany, Jeffersonville
                and 
                        Vienna
                    . There was no guessing in what direction he would swerve and the people were frantic
                    with uncertainty. Passing north by way of Greenville and Palmyra, the raiders laid waste to 
                        Harrison
                    , 
                        Crawford
                    , 
                        Orange
                    , 
                        Floyd
                     and 
                        Washington
                     counties, capturing horses and plundering houses. At Palmyra the forces halted for two
                    hours' rest, but many preferred plundering to resting. A force of some 350 Federals at 
                        Palmyra
                     hastily retreated to 
                        Salem
                    . By nine in the morning, July 10, all of Morgan's men were reunited at 
                        Salem
                     and after a slight skirmish they easily dispersed the Minutemen and took prisoners a
                    company of the Legion from 
                        Washington county
                     under Captain John Davis. At 
                        Salem Morgan
                    's men went wild. Plundering was at its worst here. The depot of the 
                        Louisville
                     & 
                        Chicago
                     railroad and the railroad bridge were burned, and the smaller bridges destroyed; the
                    tracks were torn up for a long distance; $1,000 was levied upon each mill and if payment
                    was not made the mill was burned; stores and buildings of all sorts were robbed. Morgan's
                    men seemed frenzied by the delight of pillage, for they would take things for which they had no
                    possible use and which were only a trouble to carry. A dry goods store was entered and each man
                    grabbed a bolt of calico, unwound it, and threw it away only to get a fresh one; one man carried a
                    chafing  dish on his saddle for days, and another a bird cage;
                    though it was hot July weather, one man rode with a pair of skates which he had stolen slung across
                    his shoulder. Such conduct continued until two o'clock in the afternoon when Morgan
                    received warning that General Hobson was in close pursuit; so part of the town was left in flames as
                    the marauders hastily departed.
            It was thought that Morgan might try to cross the river at 
                        Louisville
                     or 
                        Madison
                    , and gunboats were ordered to ply between these two points and prevent his escape. By
                    this time Morgan had so badly demolished the telegraph system in Indiana that couriers were the only
                    communication between Federal forces, so messages became confusing and inaccurate. Two hundred of
                    Morgan's men did reach the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Bardstown
                    , July 10, but General Boyle reports them cut off by Hobson, some of them being drowned
                    and some captured.
            Hobson was only twenty-five miles from 
                        Salem
                     when Morgan fled. Morgan passed through Canton, thirty-four miles from 
                        New Albany
                    , and through 
                        New Philadelphia
                    , gathering all the horses he could find. He reached 
                        Vienna
                     at six in the evening, July 10, his troops being so weary that plundering was largely
                    given up. Here the depot and bridge were burned and the telegraph operator captured. Pressing on
                    from 
                        Vienna
                     they found the roads blocked, so they encamped at 
                        Lexington
                    .
            Early the next morning the raid continued on north toward Vernon. Vernon was important because it was
                    a railroad center and there were two important bridges there of the 
                        Madison
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                     & 
                        Mississippi
                     railroads. The citizens, four hundred strong, rose to defend the town, and General Love
                    with twelve hundred troops came in time to hold the town before Morgan could enter it.
            Morgan tried one of his favorite ruses here. He immediately demanded the surrender of the town
                    without any fighting. Colonel Williams, commander of a company of the Legion, refused to surrender.
                    At 5:40 in the evening Morgan sent another demand for surrender, which was again refused. General
                    Love had arrived in the meantime and he now demanded Morgan's surrender. Finally at nine
                    o'clock that night he sent a message  to General Love
                    that he would grant a truce of thirty minutes in which the women and children could be removed to
                    safety, and that at the end of this truce he would fire upon the town. General Lew Wallace had been
                    ordered to Vernon with 1,300 infantry, but the railroads were in a very bad condition and he was
                    delayed at 
                        Columbus
                     until too late to be of use at 
                        Vernon
                    , as it was impossible to secure horses in the confused country through which Morgan had
                    passed. Wallace did not reach Vernon until six in the morning, July 12, but Morgan had slipped away
                    during the previous night, having failed to put into effect his threat of besieging the town. It was
                    evident that Morgan wished to avoid a fight. His men were worn by the strain of constant riding
                    without rest or sleep, and with an enemy in close pursuit. The raid became from this point on, if,
                    indeed, it had not been from the very start, a mad attempt to escape. The capture of Vernon had been
                    dear to Morgan's heart and it had failed utterly.
            General Love receiving information that Morgan was at Du-pont at one in the morning of July 12, sent
                    Captain Boyd in pursuit, and twenty or thirty stragglers were caught. At Dupont, west of Vernon,
                    Morgan tore up part of the tracks, cut the telegraph wires, burned two bridges, a watertank and a
                    warehouse. A porkhouse was robbed of $1,700 worth of meat—a new kind of
                    plunder, as Morgan's men were well supplied and had no need of the meat for food. Barns
                    also were robbed and wheat was destroyed. Without resting the band proceeded, Sunday, July 12,
                    toward 
                        Versailles
                    , again changing their course. About 
                        Versailles
                     there was a force of adequate number to have crushed Morgan, had the troops been well
                    placed, but the Union forces were doing their best under the circumstances. They had only infantry
                    which had to travel on railroads, while Morgan with his cavalry was constantly changing his course,
                    only striking the railroads now and then. The Union troops were mostly raw and slow about obeying
                    orders. The people were bewildered at the wild reports that were afloat, and in constant terror, for
                    Morgan changed about so rapidly there was no telling where he would strike next. General Hobson was
                    pursuing Morgan, but  his horses were jaded and there were no
                    fresh ones to be had, so at 
                        Versailles Morgan
                     had things pretty much his own way. He took three hundred prisoners, Minutemen under
                    Colonel James Cravens; captured $5,000 of public funds and foraged freely on all sides.
                    At four o'clock that sultry Sunday afternoon he left 
                        Versailles
                     and moved toward 
                        Osgood
                    .
            Morgan's command divided into several forces on leaving 
                        Versailles
                    , the main body being under Basil W. Duke. This division marching on into the night,
                    halted at 
                        Sunman
                    , but as there was a Federal force of some 2,500 men under General Wallace, the body of
                    cavalry turned aside and encamped for the night at a safe distance. At five o'clock on
                    Monday morning they resumed their march, crossed the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Cincinnati
                     railroad between Sunman's Station and Van Weddons, tore up the track near
                    Sunman's, and reached 
                        Harrison
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , on the State line, a little after noon on July 13. Another division encamped at 
                        Aurora
                     Sunday night and arrived at 
                        Harrison
                     at 3:30 Monday afternoon. About an hour before dark, Morgan's forces, now all
                    assembled at the State line, crossed the Whitewater river and moved on into 
                        Ohio
                    . The men were glad to be out of a State where, Morgan says, "every man, woman
                    and child was his enemy, every hill a telegraph, and every bush an ambush." His men were
                    utterly exhausted with hard riding and loss of sleep. At one time they were in the saddle for
                    thirty-five hours, and some days covered ninety miles. Morgan left Indiana with the pursuers only an
                    hour's ride behind him, and it could hardly be said that he was leaving "master of
                    the situation" as he had proudly predicted he would be.
            With dash and endurance equal to Morgan's own, General Hobson had followed in pursuit of the
                    raiders. When Morgan started on his raid, General Hartsuff ordered Hobson and all other ready troops
                    to start the pursuit at once. Brigadier-General Shackelford joined Hobson, July 2, and Wolford and
                    Judah joined them soon after, the infantry keeping creditably with the cavalry. Under General Hobson
                    there were 2,500 troops. As Morgan moved toward 
                        Brandenburg
                    , Hobson kept in close pursuit, though forced to stop at 
                        Bardstown
                     for supplies. At seven  o'clock in the
                    evening he received word of Morgan's crossing the 
                        Ohio
                    , and that night the greater part of his forces encamped twelve miles from 
                        Brandenburg
                    . A part of them under General Shackelford pushed on toward the river, and within two
                    miles of 
                        Brandenburg
                     saw the smoke rising from the ill-fated "Alice Dean" and heard the
                    triumphant shouts of Morgan's men. Hobson entered 
                        Brandenburg
                     on the morning of July 9. The "Mc-Coombs" which the Confederates had
                    abandoned was sent to 
                        Louisville
                     for transports. The transports arrived that evening, and crossing continued all night.
                    By two o'clock in the morning of July 10 the forces were all on the Indiana side, and that
                    day they marched fifty miles, reaching 
                        Salem
                     Saturday morning, July 11. Then Morgan moved toward 
                        Madison
                     through 
                        Lexington
                    , and Hobson arrived at 
                        Lexington
                     at eight that evening. The march had been continuous, and the men, worn and hungry,
                    spent the night near 
                        Lexington
                    . Morgan made one of his queer moves here and turned north on 
                        Vernon
                     and 
                        Versailles
                     as we have seen. Hobson's forces also reached 
                        Versailles
                     July 12, made a short halt and arrived at 
                        Harrison
                     only an hour behind Morgan.
            Throughout the entire march through Indiana the Federal forces were treated with the utmost courtesy
                    and kindness by the inhabitants. General Shackelford said: "The kindness, hospitality and
                    patriotism of that noble State, as exhibited on the passage of the Federal forces, was sufficient to
                    convince the most consummate traitor of the impossibility of severing this great Union."
                    But of the aid most sorely needed—fresh horses—the inhabitants had none to
                    offer. Morgan's system of horse stealing was perfect. He would send a small detachment from
                    the front of his command, five miles into the country to collect horses, swing round and fall to the
                    rear, thus making a ten-mile sweep. His great advantage was not only in having the lead, but also
                    the best means of maintaining it. The Federals often found the horses left behind as broken down by
                    Morgan, fresher than their own and pressed these poor beasts to further service, and where these
                    failed they pressed pluckily forward on foot.
            Still in the lead, Morgan hastened on through southern 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
            Very little resistance was offered until he reached the 
                        Ohio
                     river near Buffington Island, July 19. Here the Federal forces were in wait for him.
                    The river had risen unexpectedly and it was possible for Captain Le Roy Fitch to place his gunboats
                    in advantageous positions to guard the crossing. Generals Hobson and Judah were there with their
                    forces which, though jaded and weary, were still in good spirits and anxious to fight. Morgan was
                    trapped, and in the fight which ensued General Shackelford captured seven hundred prisoners, their
                    horses and arms, and two hundred more were either shot or drowned. The following morning Shackelford
                    sent a flag of truce to the enemy, demanding their surrender. Forty minutes for consultation were
                    granted, at the end of which time they surrendered between 1,200 and 1,300 prisoners, with all their
                    arms and supplies. Morgan with about five hundred of his men slipped away before the surrender,
                    turned back from the river, and headed toward 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in the hope of joining Lee.
            The Federals were not very well prepared for further pursuit. At Cincinnati Hobson's force
                    almost went to pieces, there being only five hundred horses left in the whole command. Mounting five
                    hundred of Hobson's men, General Shackelford, followed by Major Rue, of the Ninth Kentucky
                    Cavalry, and Major Way, of the Ninth Michigan, undertook the capture of Morgan. They succeeded in
                    hemming Morgan in on all sides near Salineville on the 
                        New Lisbon
                     road, July 26, and when General Shackelford came up Morgan surrendered himself with 350
                    men. A small remnant escaped. The officers were consigned to the penitentiaries of 
                        Columbus
                     and Pittsburg and the other prisoners to Camps Chase and Morton.
            Morgan's life was romantic to the close. After his capture, July 26, 1863, he was placed in
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     State penitentiary at 
                        Columbus
                    . Here in a little cell, with shaved head, he stayed until November 26, 1863. But he was
                    not idle, for he with seven of his companions dug their way out af prison, made their way into the
                    Confederacy and were greeted with open arms. Morgan reorganized his cavalry and served in 
                        Southwest Virginia
                     and 
                        East Tennessee
                     with some success. While asleep in a house  at 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , September 4, 1864, he was betrayed by a jealous woman, it is said, and was murdered
                    before he could escape.
            Seldom has any movement aroused such intense excitement, such exaggerated impressions and such bitter
                    feelings as did Morgan's raid. To the North they were "Morgan, Morgan the raider,
                    and Morgan's terrible men!" But Morgan was not the bloodthirsty ruffian that many
                    still believe him to have been. He was a 
                        Kentucky
                     gentleman, with a wonderful mind, unsurpassed bravery and a magnetic personality. He
                    was fearless, tireless, reckless, kind, shrewd and original. To such a leader it is natural that
                    hot-headed youths—lovers of the romantic—should be drawn, and men from all
                    over the South came to follow him. The Indiana raid was his undoing. It had failed to keep the Union
                    forces busy for more than a very few days. It had ended in disaster to Morgan. Never again did he
                    rise to the height of success and popularity which were his before attempting the raid. It was too
                    big an undertaking. He had been too confident, too sure of sympathy from Indiana. He had disobeyed
                    his orders and paid dearly for his disobedience. Still in the Southern breast there lives a love and
                    reverence for Morgan and his men. They regard him as the highest type of the Confederacy.
            BIBLIOGRAPHY
                    OF REFERENCES—
                  "Indiana in the War," W. H. H. Terrell;
                  "History of Morgan's Cavalry," B. W. Duke;
                  General Burnside's Report;
                  The Annual Cyclopàdia;
                   "Indiana," J. P. Dunn;
                  Rhodes' History of the 
                                United States
                            ";
                  "The Partisan Rangers";
                  O. R. Ser., Burn-side's Report, Wallace's Report, Boyle to Hartsuff,
                            Hobson's Report, Shackleford's Report;
                  Hobson to Boyle;
                  "Life of O. P. Morton," D. W. Foulke;
                  "The American Conflict," H. Greeley;
                  New International Cyclopàdia.
               
            
            EDITORIAL ADDENDUM.
            To Miss Boyer's account of Morgan's raid we would add certain reminiscences that we
                    have gathered from time to time from participants in that brief but notable campaign.
            The first is from the late George W. Julian. Mr. Julian then lived at the little town of
                            
                  Centerville, Wayne
                county. Late on  the night of
                    July 9, 1863, 
                        Centerville
                     was aroused by a violent clanging of bells, and people hastened from their beds to
                    learn of the Governor's urgent demand upon "all able-bodied white male
                    citizens." The following day was spent in drumming up recruits, and twenty-four hours after
                    the first alarm these recruits were en route, by freight, to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where they arrived in the gray of dawn and were marched down 
                        Washington
                     street to Military Park, Mr. Julian, who was the tallest man in the company, his height
                    accentuated by the wearing of a long linen duster, marching beside the shortest man to be found, the
                    grotesque pair running the gauntlet of irreverent remarks from amused bystanders.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     was acreep with would-be soldiers, and trains from all directions were continually
                    bringing in new crowds. Some time, of course, had to elapse before this mob could be converted into
                    a military force, and in the meantime the boys were not neglectful of the amenities of life. Seven
                    preachers in one company were the butts of continual jokes, the most popular of which was to
                    "doctor" their canteens with rank beverages. One of these clerical gentlemen,
                    being hastily summoned from a nap to fall in line and march down street, unconsciously bore on his
                    back in conspicuous letters the words "OLD BOURBON WHISKY."
            Mr. Sylvester Johnson, still living at 
                        Irvington
                     at an advanced age, and Mr. Cyrus M. Smith, of the same place, were also in that
                    mustering, and in their accounts they agree with Mr. Julian that, however earnest the Hoosier
                    legions may have been in their patriotism, the whole affair went off like a grand lark. Mr. Johnson,
                    who is of peaceful 
                        Quaker
                     stock, frankly admits that he never before or since experienced such a pleasant sense
                    of relief as when they failed to connect with the fleeing Morgan. After that failure the
                    home-defenders went to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , in order to return home by the I., C. & L. road, and there, it seems, they
                    proceeded to celebrate their narrow escape from war and bloodshed. Orders were issued for a dress
                    parade for the entertainment of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     public, but when the time came for mustering just eight men were available. Of the
                    others some were  scattered about town "seeing the
                    elephant," and others were down by the river testing their guns and trying to hit the State
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            They came back to 
                        Indianapolis
                     by freight train, and were twenty-three hours on the way. Many hilarious pranks are
                    told of. Among other things, the pipe of a watering tank at the town of Sunman was pulled down by
                    some one on the top of a car just as the one passenger coach of the train came slowly up. Mr. Julian
                    was in this coach, and a sudden flood of water spouting in at his window drenched him completely. As
                    a change of clothing was not to be had, his only recourse was to dry himself as best he could, and
                    the last that the citizens of Sunman saw of the Congressman from the "Burnt
                    District" was his tall figure standing on the top of a freight car with outspread limbs,
                    trying to get as much of the sun and breeze as possible.
            The campaign was spoken of as "the eight days of war," and one wag, in describing
                    it, said that the participants went battle-scared and came back bottle-scarred.
            The above, published some years ago in a local paper, called forth the following communication from
                    Mr. O. H. Smith, of 
                        Maryville
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    :
            "The writer of these lines at that time," said Mr. Smith, "was living at 
                        Thorntown
                    , Indiana, and was principal of the old academy at that place. On Thursday night, July
                    9, 1863, at about eight o'clock, the first news of the raid reached us by wire. An hour
                    later came the call from Governor Morton for troops. * * * When the
                    eight o'clock morning train from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     arrived, a full company of brave militiamen, eager for the fray, boarded the train for
                    the capital. At 
                        Lebanon
                     and other towns in the county they were joined by other companies, and went into camp
                    at Military Park, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . During the afternoon of Friday, the 10th, a 
                        Boone county
                     regiment of eight companies was organized. This was the first regiment ready. By
                    Saturday morning a brigade under General Lew Wallace, who at that time was home from the front, left
                    for the seat of war over the old 
                        Madison
                     railroad. At 
                        Franklin
                     we  waited several hours for our artillery
                    complement, which had been ordered to join us there. In the afternoon we got off again, and arrived
                    at 
                        Columbus
                     about dark. Then it was learned that General Morgan was at 
                        Vernon
                    , and had just demanded the surrender of the town. This created the greatest excitement
                    in the brigade of Home 'Guards. To think that we were within a few miles of a rebel army
                    which had invaded our native soil made the blood of patriotism boil. We were ordered to fill our
                    cartridge boxes, carry loaded arms, and cut port holes in the freight cars to shoot out of. A squad
                    of cavalry was improvised and sent ahead of the train to scour the country for the enemy. Many
                    rumors came to us about Morgan and his men, and many a tenderfoot trembled when he
                    ‘thought of the morrow,’ and felt that the grim realities of war were soon to
                    be upon him.
            "We proceeded slowly southward, stopping frequently to wait for news from our cavalry
                    scouts. Sometimes as these galloped by on the dirt roads near our train we were certain they were
                    some of the rebel raiders about to surround us. Thus wore on the tedious hours of the night. Just as
                    day dawned we arrived at 
                        North Vernon
                     and learned that the enemy, hearing that a brave army from the north was after him,
                    concluded that ‘discretion was the better part of valor,’ and, after making
                    some demands on the citizens for needed supplies, left old Vernon, two miles south, a few hours
                    before we arrived at 
                        North Vernon
                    . We spent most of Sunday at 
                        Vernon
                    , but late in the afternoon were ordered aboard the train and went to Dupont. Here we
                    pitched our tents and began preparations for supper. But just before grub was ready we were again
                    ordered to board the train and go back to Vernon. We never knew the reason for this, to us, singular
                    movement, but supposed it was to try our metal and get us ready for the rough usage of war. On
                    Monday we went east on the 
                        Ohio
                     & 
                        Mississippi
                     railway as far as 
                        Osgood
                    , where a bridge, burnt the day before by Morgan, stopped our progress by rail. Here we
                    began a twenty-mile march in the wake of the raiders, who had preceded us only about twenty-four
                    hours. We saw many evidences of their march—broken-down horses left by the wayside,
                    fields devastated and camp fires still burning. We  were
                    joyfully fed by the families of farmers, who the day before had been compelled to feed the enemy.
                    Sunman was the end of our journey. There we learned that Morgan had passed into 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Harrison
                    , hotly pursued by patriotic Hoosiers and warmly received by fighting
                    Buckeyes."
            DEATH OF GENERAL CARRINGTON.
            The papers for October 29 announced the death of Brigadier-General H. B. Carrington, at 
                        Boston
                    , at the age of eighty-eight years. At the time of the Morgan excitement General
                    Carrington was stationed in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where, according to the report of Adjutant-General Terrell, he "gave his best
                    efforts to the organization and mustering of the forces, a work in which his experience and energy
                    made him unrivalled." One of his duties after the raid was to traverse the route taken by
                    Morgan with a view to relieving the farmers who in the midst of their harvest season had been
                    damaged by the hostile visitation, particularly in the loss of their horses. The same year he was
                    active in discovering and exposing the Sons of Liberty. His reports, "Military Operations
                    in Indiana—1862 to 1865," and "Exposure of the Sons of
                    Liberty," comprise Documents No. 77 and NO. 79 in Volume I of the
                    Adjutant-General's Report.
         
         
         
            NAMES OF THE OHIO RIVER.
            BY J. P. DUNN
            THERE is probably no other river in the world that has had so many different names as the 
                        Ohio
                     river, which were brought to the notice of the civilized world. Of course all large
                    rivers in America, and I presume in other countries, had varying names among the wild tribes that
                    knew the streams, but it is rare that many of these were preserved for the reader of to-day.
            The first name applied to the 
                        Ohio
                     by white men was the Chucagoa of De Soto's expedition of 1540. It is hardly
                    probable that the name was intended to apply to the 
                        Ohio
                     originally, but La Salle, who was the first white man called upon to wrestle with the
                    historical prize puzzle of the De Soto chronicles, thought it was. Unfortunately his ideas are not
                    fully preserved, the chief record of them being in a fragmentary letter unearthed by M. Margry,
                    which begins thus:
            "________ neighlm-s of the Cisca and their allies as well as Sicaca.
            "The Chucagoa, which means in their language the Big River, as does 
                        Mississippi
                     in thc 
                        Ottawa
                     and Mascicippi in the 
                        Illinois
                    , is the river which we call the Saint Louis [the lower 
                        Ohio
                    ]. The 
                        Ohio
                     river is one of its branches, which receives two other very considerable ones before
                    emptying into the Saint Louis, to-wit: the Agouassaki [
                        Wabash
                    ] to the north and the Chaouesnon [Shawano—the 
                        Tennessee
                    ] to the south.
            "The Takahagane live on the north shore of the Chucagoa about the 32d degree of latitude
                    north. * * * This river is much wider in its whole length [i. e.,
                    below the mouth of the 
                        Tennessee
                    ] than the Colbert [
                        Mississippi
                    ] river. I have not descended it far. The hpalachites, a people of English 
                        Florida
                    , are not far distant from one of its eastern branches, because they are in war with the
                    Tchatake and the Cisca, one of whose villages they burned, being aided by the English. The Ciscas
                    then left their former villages, which were much more to the east than those from which they came
                    here; but that river flows from east  to west, and consequently
                    it seems that it must empty into or join the Colbert, from which the Takahagane, who live on the
                    shore of the Chucagoa, are distant only three days, where we saw some when going down and coming up.
                    * * * The prodigious width which they [the De Soto chronicles]
                    attribute to the Ghannel of the Chucagoa, so that from the middle they were not able to discern if
                    what they saw on the shore were trees or merely reeds, several days before arriving at its mouth,
                    has no connection with the size of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , which is scarcely wider than the Loire, even where it empties into the sea."
                    [Margry, Vol. II, p. 196.1
            The obvious explanation of this passage is that it was written after La Salle's first trip
                    down the 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1669, and before he saw the
                    upper 
                        Mississippi
                    . In his account of this descent of the 
                        Ohio
                     he says that he followed the stream "to a place where it empties, after a long
                    course, into vast marshes, at the latitude of 37 degrees, after having been increased by another
                    river, very large, which comes from the north; and all these waters discharge themselves, according
                    to all appearances, into the Gulf of Mexico." [Margry, Vol. I, p. 330.] Apparently he had
                    reached the lower 
                        Ohio
                     at a time of heavy floods; and his experience then made him believe both that it was
                    much wider than the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and that it answered to the "prodigious width" of the Chucagoa.
            Like most of the early geographers, La Salle got an exaggerated idea of the east and west extent of
                    the north coast of the Gulf of Mexico from the De Soto chronicles. He was sure that De
                    Soto's river "Escondido" must be the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and that it emptied "hear Mexico"; and this error led him to locate
                    his first colony, intended for the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , in the region of the mouth of the Rio Grande, which is probably what De Soto intended
                    as the Escondido. I think it quite probable that what De Soto called the Chucagoa was the 
                        Alabama
                    . This seems to have been the understanding of Sanson, as shown in his map of 1696; and
                    the same intent is apparent in the Hennepin map of 1697. [Winsor's U. S., Vol. IV, p. 253.]
            La Salle's ideas are shown in the Franquelin map of 1684,  which, unquestionably, was drawn from his information. In this the 
                        Ohio
                     is marked "Fleuve St. Louis ou Chucagoa," with the "
                        Ohio
                    " and "Ouabache" or "Agouassaki" as
                    tributaries, and emptying into the "
                        Mississippi
                     ou riviere Colbert." The latter is given a wide detour to the west, and is
                    made to empty into the Gulf of Mexico from the northwest, at the proper location for the Rio Grande.
            Of course, if "Chucagoa" means Big River, as La Salle states, it may have been
                    applied to different streams. He gives no clue to the tribe using it except that they were
                    "neighbors" of the southern Indians, for the "Sicaca" were
                    evidently the Chick-asaws, and the "Tchatakc" the Choctaws. The
                    "Ciscas" are not certain. They have been identified with the
                    "Chiscas," and these with the people of "Quizquiz," which is
                    generally located by De Soto students on the 
                        Mississippi
                     river in the northwestern corner of the State of 
                        Mississippi
                    . Whoever they were, nothing is now known of their languages. It is to be regretted that
                    it is not known from what language Chucagoa is taken, for its ending bears a striking resemblance to
                    the beginning of the name Agouassaki, which La Salle (and no one else) applied to the 
                        Wabash
                    , and wliicli is also of unknown origin and meaning. In Choctaw, chuk-ka means a house,
                    and a-shu-ka nieans a pipe, while o-ka means water. These are the most suggestive resemblances to
                    Chucagoa that I know of in the southern dialects. I know of no words for "big" or
                    "river" that resemble it. On the Franquelin map the "Tacaogane"
                    are located as La Salle mentions, on the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                    , some distance below the mouth of the 
                        Tennessee
                    . Tah-kah-kah-ni is the Miami word for "axe," and in this case it was
                    probably the band of some chief of that name that was located where La Salle found them.
            La Salle was the European discoverer of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and in 1680 he wrote that he had named it "Baudrane," but
                    "the Iroquois call it 
                        Ohio
                    , and the Ottawas Olighin-cipou." The name "Baudrane" was
                    short-lived, being soon replaced by "Saint Louis," in French nomenclature. The
                    Iroquois "
                        Ohio
                    ," which has outlived all the other names, is an exclamation signifying
                    "beautiful." Variant forms of this name on old maps, and in old writings,  are "Oyo," "Oyeu," and
                    "Hohio." The French commonly translated this name, and called the stream
                    "Belle Riviere." When the English were contesting with the French for mastery in
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     valley, English geographers shunned the treason of using French names, and so, on the
                    map of Thomas Jeffreys, 1760, it appears as "
                        Ohio
                    , or Fair river." This name also appears on Faden's map in 1785.
                    Jeffreys also used the alternative "Alliganey river," which was followed on
                    Tirion's map, in 1769, and others. This is an Anglicism of the 
                        Ottawa
                     name, which is the same as the old 
                        Delaware
                     name "Alligewi-sipo," and which presumably means the river of the
                    Talegewi, or Talega, a tribe with whom the Delawares were anciently at war. We preserve this in
                    "Allegheny," as the name of the north fork of the river. There is also probably a
                    variant of 
                        Ohio
                     in "O-he-zuh,") which John Johnston gives as the Wyandot name of the
                    stream, and says it means "something great." Hough makes this O-he-zuh-an-de-wa on
                    his map. [Ind. Geol. Rep., 1882.]
            Another name was added in La Salle's time by Marquette and Joliet, who passed the mouth of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     when going down the 
                        Mississippi
                    . On Marquette's map the 
                        Ohio
                     is marked as an unexplored stream, with the name "8ab8skia8." On
                    Joliet's map of 1673 it is 8ab8stik8," and on his map of 1674
                    "8ab-8skig8." In these words the "8," which should be open at
                    the top, is the nearest approach in our fonts of type to the Greek omicron-upsilon, or
                    "u") placed on the top of "o." There being no
                    "w" in the French alphabet, the early chroniclers used this sign to represent the
                    sound of "w," and also the sound of the diphthong "ou," and
                    occasionally the sound of long "o." In this case, Marquette's name would
                    be Wabouskiou, and Joliet's Wa-boustikou and Wabouskigou. All of these are dialect forms of
                    the Miami name of the 
                        Wabash
                    , which is Wah-bah-shik-ki; and this is an adjective applied to anything inanimate that
                    is pure or bright white, and natural. It was used as the name of the 
                        Wabash
                     on account of the limestone bed in the upper part of the stream.
            The tribes near the 
                        Wabash
                     carried that name to the lower 
                        Ohio
                    , and treated the 
                        Ohio
                     as a tributary of the 
                        Wabash
                    . This  custom was followed by the French until
                    about 1750, but the name was usually shortened to "Ouabache," or occasionally to
                    "Rbache." Sanson mistook the "8" in the Marquette and Jolict
                    names for the letter "s"; and on his maps of 1700 the stream is marked
                    "Sabsquigs." Our name of 
                        Wabash
                     comes direct from the French, but we have changed the pronunciation of the vowels. In
                    the French "Ouabache," as in the Miami "Wah-bah-shik-ki," both
                    "a's" have the sound of "a" in "far."
            John Johnston stated that the Shawnees call the 
                        Ohio
                     Kis-ke-pi-la-se-pe, or Eagle river. [Am. Antiquarian SOC., Vol. I, p. 297.1 Hough makes
                    this Kis-ke-ba-la-se-be on his map. Hough also gives Pa-la-wa-the-pee, or Turkey river, as the 
                        Delaware
                     name of the stream. There is some error in this, as the lisping "th"
                    in place of "s" is a characteristic of the Shawnee, and not of the 
                        Delaware
                    . Pa-la-wa-se-pe would be Turkey river in most of the Algonquin languages. It is
                    probable that Vaugondy was aiming at this name on his map of 1755, on which the stream is marked "
                        Ohio
                     or Splawacipiki."
            On Herman Moll's map of 1720 the 
                        Ohio
                     is marked "Sault river." This, of course, refers to the rapids
                    (sault) at 
                        Louisville
                    . On Seutter's map of 1720, it is marked "
                        Ohio
                     or Akansea." Akansea (Akancea, Akansa) was the common form
                    of the French for the 
                        Arkansas
                     tribe of Indians, but there is no reason why their name should be given to the 
                        Ohio
                    . This is probably a corruption of the Miami name of the stream, which is Kan-zan-za.
                    This is the name of the pecan—the nut is Kan-zan-za-mi-ni —and the name was
                    presumably given because the pecan tree did not grow far north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , though common near it, especially in the vicinity of the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                    .
         
         
         
            EARLY RECOLLECTIONS OF JOHN P. HEDGES.
            [These "Recollections," originally published in the 
                  
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Sentinel, about 1875, have been sent us by Mr. J. M. Stouder, of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , who copied the matter from an old scrapbook belonging to Mr. L. P. Stapleford, of the
                    same city. Mr. Stapleford secured the reminiscences from Mr. Hedges when in his eighty-fifth
                        year.—EDITOR.]
            T relater arrived at 
                        Fort Meigs
                     in the spring of the year 1812, being then about twenty-two years of age. I visited 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for the purpose of estimating the amount of provision then in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , by order of General John H. Piatt, commissary-general of the Eighth military district,
                    with whom I was chief clerk. I was accompanied to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by a Shawnee Indian as guide. I remained at the fort some two or three days, merely
                    long enough to take a complete estimate of what provisions remained in the fort. From there I went
                    to 
                        Piqua
                    , 
                        Dayton
                    , and finally to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , which place contained a population of about 2,500 inhabitants. At these places I
                    provisioned with a sufficient quantity of flour, bacon, whiskey, salt, etc., and also a lot of
                    cattle. The cattle, I remember very distinctly, were purchased from a German by the name of George
                    Kountz, whose cattle were all branded with the letters "G. K." After leaving 
                        Cincinnati
                     I passed through 
                        Piqua
                     and 
                        Dayton
                     and finally reached 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on the 10th day of September, 1812, in company with the army, consisting of about three
                    regiments under the command of Generals Harrison and Winchester, who were sent to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to relieve the garrison, which was then under a state of siege by the Indians. He found
                    the troops, who for some time had been living on half rations, nearly destitute, and but for our
                    timely arrival could not have held out much longer. The army remained at the fort for several days,
                    and during that period destroyed several Indian villages in the vicinity. One village known as
                    "Little Turtle" village, was located on Eel river, near Heller's Corners.
                    A village was also destroyed near the mouth of Cedar creek, now near Cedarville. There was another
                    village near the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     river, known as the "Charles Consto" village, named after a French
                    half-breed. After remaining at Fort 
                    
                        Wayne
                     for some time, the troops with whom I encamped marched down the Maumee river to the
                    mouth of Bear creek, at a point about one mile from Defiance, which place was known as Camp No. 1.
                    The next encampment was at the mouth of the Auglaize river, on a beautiful summit on the north bank
                    of the Maumee river, opposite Defiance, called Camp No. 2. The next movement was made on Flat Rock,
                    known in French as "Pede de Pleu," some six miles below Defiance. The army
                    remained there until the following January, when it moved on to Fort Meigs, remaining there several
                    days. It then went to the river Raisin, some thirty miles from St. Mary's where the troops
                    met a terrible defeat. Nearly the entire army was massacred by the troops under the command of the
                    British general, Proctor, and the Indian chief, Tecumseh. I remember well that terrible disaster.
                    Many a poor straggling soldier reached our camp nearly worn out with the fatigue of that fatal day.
            After this massacre my position compelled me to visit different government points in my district,
                    embracing Erie, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                  Fort Wayne, Detroit, Michigan
               , and 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               .
            Quite a number of our troops were stationed in 
                        Canada
                    , at a point called Malden, under Lieutenant-Colonel Butler, of 
                        Kentucky
                    . I remained in 
                        Canada
                     for four or five months—as long as the troops remained there—and
                    was present at the Battle of the Thames, where General Proctor was defeated and the noted Indian
                    warrior Tecumseh was killed. I saw Tecumseh's remains, and saw the fatal bullet hole. His
                    mortal wound was on the left side—directly through the heart—and it was so
                    small that a soldier tried to penetrate it with his little finger but found it impossible to do so.
                    There were several other wounds in different parts of his body, some of which would have proved
                    fatal. Tecumseh was distinguished by a real silk sash wound about his waist, which no doubt had been
                    procured from some British officer, as such an article in those days was real costly. After the
                    battle, I was informed that the soldiers mutilated the body of Tecumseh, by cutting several strips
                    of his skin for the purpose of using as razor strops. Whether true or not, it was charged by a
                    half-bred Indian interpreter by the name of Anthony Shaw, who was inclined to take considerable
                    umbrage  at that kind of warfare, comparing it to that of
                    savages. It has been the general impression that Tecumseh was killed by Colonel Johnson. Such is
                    erroneous. There is no doubt that he met his death by the hand of a private soldier by the name of
                    King, a member of Captain Fairfield's company of 
                        Kentucky
                     militia.
         
         
            REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER.
            [Special from 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., December 11, 1912, to The 
                            Indianapolis
                         News.]
            MRS. ELIZABETH R. TRON, of 
                        Madison
                    , Ind., historian of the John Paul Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, has
                    asked the quartermaster-general of the army to erect a marker over the grave of Bezaleel Maxwell, a
                    revolutionary soldier, in 
                        Hanover
                     cemetery, near 
                        Madison
                    . She points out that since its organization, the John Paul Chapter has received twenty
                    markers from the government for the graves of the score of revolutionary soldiers that are buried in 
                        Jefferson county
                    .
            The records at the war department show that Maxwell was born in 
                        Albemarle county
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , on December 20, 1751, and died in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , Indiana, on January 9, 1828. As a member of Captain Doack's military company
                    that was organized in 1774, Maxwell enlisted in the Continental army under General Anderson, and was
                    in the battle of 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    . He continued in the war until its close and was present at the surrender of Yorktown.
            Dr. Allison Maxwell, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. Mellette, of 
                        Bloomington
                    ; the Dunn family in Indiana; the Wiley family, of which Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, of pure
                    food fame, is a member, and Mrs. Laura A. Blaine, of 
                        Springfield
                    , Mo., are descendants of Bezaleel Maxwell.
            Representative Korbly, a former resident of 
                        Madison
                    , called at the war department to-day to urge that the marker be placed at the head of
                    the grave of the soldier as soon as possible.
         
         
         
            REPRINTS
            THE SCHOOLS OF INDIANAPOLIS—IV.
            BY PROFESSOR A. C. SHORTRIDGE
            
               The Law of 1853—First Officers and Appointees; Law of
                        1861—Its Bad Features; History of the School Bill of
                        1871—Its Narrow Escape from Defeat; Criticism of Early 
                            Philadelphia
                         Schools; Plans for New Schoolhouses and Opposition to; Gradual Advance in the
                        Status of the Schools; Citizens to Whom Honor is Due.
            IN concluding this series of articles relating to the schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , both public and private, I must say that no attempt has been made to give a complete
                    history of education in this city, but only to give in a general way the earlier and later
                    organizations and growth for the first twenty-five years of their history. I shall here add a few
                    items as they occur to me by way of rounding out these reminiscences.
            The law of 1853, the first under the present constitution, provided for the election, by the City
                    Council, of three trustees for the term of one year. This was the law for eight years, ending in
                    1861. Among the names of men who filled that office at one time or another during this period were
                    Henry P. Coburn, Calvin Fletcher, H. F. West, John B. Dillon, William Sheets, David Beaty, James M.
                    Ray, D. V. Culley, N. B. Taylor, John Love, Caleb B. Smith, Lawrence M. Vance, Cyrus C. Hines and
                    Oscar Kendrick. This law was a fairly good one, quite as good as could have been expected at that
                    time, and judging from the excellent character of the men chosen as trustees it would seem something
                    might have been accomplished if only there had been money to do things with.
            At the first meeting of the trustees, Messrs. Coburn, Fletcher and West, in March, 1853, principals
                    of the seven schools were duly appointed. Among the appointees was Miss Charlotte  Hobart, to be principal of the Fourth ward school, in West Market
                    street. Miss Hobart, afterward Mrs. Charlotte Hobart Vawter, is still living near the city, and
                    often pleasingly refers to the pioneer schools of that day.
            The law enacted in 1861 to take the place of the first one was fraught with the worst of
                    possibilities. It provided for an election by a popular vote of school trustees, nine in number, one
                    for each ward. They were to be nominated and elected precisely as other city officers. This at once
                    placed the whole school system within the grasp of politicians. The tendency of such a law could not
                    be seen at once; it was not seen in this case. The men chosen to manage the schools were in the main
                    good ones. I call to mind the following, D. V. Culley, James Green, Thomas B. Elliott, James
                    Sulgrove, Lucian Barbour, Alexander Metzger and Herman Lieber, as men who served on the School Board
                    from 1861 to 1865. However, a few years of this method of choosing school officers would have been
                    followed by consequences that all good people would have deplored. One needs but to examine
                    carefully the working of school management in large cities of the country to be convinced that large
                    Sums of money are annually wasted, often worse than wasted, because managed by politicians.
            In another article I have said that the school bill of 1871, giving us a larger School Board with
                    authority to levy all taxes and establish the public library, passed the State Senate easily enough
                    with the help of our Senators, E. B. Martindale and John Caven. A little incident in which Mr. Caven
                    figured I will relate.
            One day I went up to the Senate chamber and said to Mr. Caven: "Well, Senator, how are
                    things going to-day?"
            He looked up thoughtfully and said: "Everything is moving sluggishly; the Senators all have
                    their pet measures, and they are struggling to get them before the Senate. I am doing everything I
                    can for 
                        Marion county
                     and for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and I hope to get everything through in time, but I can't say when."
            I stood for a moment and walked to the outside of the railing to the space usually occupied by the
                    members of the third house.
            
            In a moment there came hurriedly a page and said, "Senator Caven wants to see you."
            I returned to his desk and he said: "Shortridge, that bill about which you have lost so much
                    sleep has passed the Senate, been signed by the President, and has already gone to the
                    House."
            Of course, I congratulated Mr. Caven and walked to the other end of the Capitol. Here the bill
                    encountered a good many obstacles; many of the members thought that 
                        Indianapolis
                     was asking too much. At one time the bill was lost for three days, and it was only
                    after a diligent search, aided by an assistant secretary, that we were able to find it.
            Older people will remember that that session of the General Assembly broke up in a row. The
                    Republican members of the House broke the quorum, to prevent what they believed to be mischievous
                    legislation, some of them going to 
                        Madison
                     and others to 
                        Kentucky
                     and elsewhere. The time for final adjournment came on the Tuesday following, and the
                    Speaker, in formally adjourning the House, had prepared and read an address in which he arraigned in
                    the severest language the Republican members, particularly the 
                        Marion county
                     members, for breaking the quorum.
            In his address he gave a list of the measures that had failed to pass, and among others mentioned the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school bill. After the adjournment Judge Martindale and I asked the Speaker on what
                    ground he made the statement that the school bill had failed. He made no explanation, but said it
                    had failed, and that he would not sign it.
            Very soon, probably the same day, the Speaker, with a few friends, started for 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where they spent a day or two, and afterward went to 
                        Columbus
                    , where the 
                        Ohio
                     Legislature was in session. Meantime I was watching the dispatches to know where the
                    party was and when it would return to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They came back to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , I think about five o'clock, on the Friday following. A few friends of the
                    school bill anxiously awaited their coming. John R. Elder, in a very persuasive state of mind, met
                    the party at the Bates House immediately after their return.
            
            I went to the Governor's office to say that the Speaker had returned to the city and would
                    probably be up in a few minutes. In fifteen or twenty minutes the Speaker, with Mr. Elder at his
                    side, entered the office and stated to the Governor that he was prepared to put his signature to any
                    bills or resolutions that had been regularly passed, as he must leave for 
                        Terre Haute
                     at eleven o'clock that night. The Governor had the documents all close at
                    hand, and one by one the Speaker attached his signature.
            The last of the bunch was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school bill. The Speaker picked it up, examined the title, and said: "I think
                    this bill was not regularly passed, and I have stated publicly that I would not sign it, and I
                    don't want to do it."
            Now it was Mr. Elder's time to exercise his persuasive tactics, and he did so effectively.
                    Governor Baker then stated that he had examined the bill with a good deal of care and that he
                    believed the citizens generally wanted it, and said further: "Mr. Speaker, if you will sign
                    it I will approve it at once." The Speaker, still holding the bill in his left hand, his
                    pen in the right hand, sat silently for a few moments, laid the bill quietly on the table and wrote,
                    "William Mack, Speaker of the House of Representatives."
            This over, having a copy of the bill in my pocket, Mr. Elder and I walked away, congratulating
                    ourselves that on the final roundup something had been done for 
                        Indianapolis
                     and her school system.
            More than a generation ago I spent two days in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     schools. A part of the time was occupied in search of a school system, but the attempt
                    to discover anything that even remotely resembled a system was a failure. There was no head or
                    general management except, as I remember, a merely nominal one, a secretary whose time was spent in
                    his office. Every school was as independent in its organization and instruction, and generally in
                    its text-books, of every other school as 
                        Indianapolis
                     is of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     or as 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               , is independent of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . The girls' high and normal school, so  far as any attempt was made to do things in a normal way, was a
                    farce—either that or else I could find only the abnormal end of it. All things
                    considered, I can easily say that there were fewer things in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     schools that I would wish to carry away with me than I had ever found in any city I had
                    ever visited before; really nothing that would have been in the least degree helpful to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was anywhere found. I do not speak of the present 
                        Philadelphia
                     schools, but in recent years all of us have learned more as to the way municipal
                    affairs are managed in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . It is not a surprise to any one to hear it said that money enough is squandered each
                    year by the school authorities to support amply the public school system in any city of 100,000
                    people. It should be said that there was to be found a first-rate high school, one of the best that
                    up to that time I had ever seen.
            Referring- now to the law of 1861, providing for the election of trustees at the general election, it
                    should be stated that there were other reasons than this one for desiring a change in the law. There
                    was a controlling influence in the board, though exerted by a minority of its members, that was an
                    effectual bar to progress. To relieve the schools of a threatened political control which certainly
                    could not have been staved off many years, and to rid them of a policy of doing things only by
                    halves, the monotony of which was only relieved by doing nothing at all, the General Assembly, in
                    1865, was induced to return to the mode of electing trustees by the City Council. This, to be sure,
                    was not an ideal place to lodge that responsibility, but in the circumstances as they existed it was
                    the best that could be done.
            The Council acted promptly, and, as provided by law, chose for a term of three years Messrs. Thomas
                    B. Elliott, Clemens Vonnegut and William H. L. Noble. These men were wise in counsel, prompt in
                    action and courageous in execution. It was at this time that real signs of progress were first
                    apparent.
            Among the changes in the law was one section of a general school law containing, I remember, 168
                    sections, and designed to include all the scrappy laws pertaining to education and to embrace  many radical improvements. Among them was one raising the tax
                    on all the property of the State from 10 to 16 cents on the $100 of taxable property, and
                    fully restoring to cities, incorporated towns and townships authority to levy special taxes to
                    construct houses and pay teachers.
            About the first thing the newly appointed trustees did after the Council had provided for a
                    reasonable tax levy for the construction of buildings and the payment of salaries of teachers, was
                    to settle on plans for the construction of new schoolhouses. To this end the board visited 
                        Dayton
                     and one or two other 
                        Ohio
                     cities. I had already seen the better buildings of 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . It was determined that I should go East and examine buildings in the principal cities.
                    In 
                        Boston
                     I found what seemed to me to be about what 
                        Indianapolis
                     needed. The superintendent sent with me a messenger to several of their latest and best
                    buildings. One of these, the John Hancock school by name, was selected as the model building for
                    which I was in search. After procuring from the office of the school committee the plans of the
                    building decided on, I returned immediately to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These plans were examined and approved by the school trustees and at once placed in
                    the hands of an architect, Joseph Curzon, with instructions to prepare plans and specifications for
                    the construction of two new buildings. Following this, schools Nos. 4 and 9 were constructed as
                    speedily as possible. The original cost was estimated at $32,000, but in view of certain
                    changes and additions the cost of each of the buildings was a few thousand dollars more. The plan of
                    these two houses, as I am told, has been followed in a general way in the construction of houses
                    ever since, and they have been followed in the erection of houses in a number of other cities of the
                    State.
            When it became known that the schoolhouses costing $30,000 to $40,000 were to
                    be built and that it would take many of them to meet the city's needs, there came to the
                    surface a good deal of opposition by some of the heavier taxpayers, particularly from those who had
                    no children to educate or who preferred to educate their children in private schools. In the face of
                    this opposition the school trustees, in view of the rapidly increasing school population  and of the approval of a large majority of citizens, went steadily
                    forward in the work of providing more abundantly for the comfort and convenience of this growing
                    demand.
            At the end of three years, the time for which this School Board was chosen, the City Council elected
                    a new board, re-electing William H. L. Noble and replacing Messrs. Elliott and Vonnegut with James
                    C. Yohn and John R. Elder. The new board pursued precisely the policy laid down by its predecessor.
                    Meantime, money came more abundantly into the treasury, and more and better accommodations were
                    provided, and salaries of teachers from time to time were advanced. So that by the end of this
                    second term of three years the school property of the city had advanced at least 300 or 400 per
                    cent. And the moneys paid for the instruction of the schools was also considerably increased.
            I remember that in 1863 the teachers of the lowest primary grades—who, by the way, had two
                    classes of children each day, one in the morning and a different class in the
                    afternoon—were receiving only $25 a month, and at the end of six years these
                    same teachers were receiving $62.50 a month. Other salaries were materially increased,
                    but not in the same proportions. The men who were charged with the duty of organizing and getting
                    under way the schools in earlier days were among the best that could have been selected for the
                    purpose, and would have accomplished all that could reasonably have been expected of them if only
                    there had been something to work with, but practically there was nothing, so that the real pioneer
                    work of laying broadly the foundation was left to the five men who were intrusted with this duty
                    between the years 1865 and 1871. When, therefore, a more accurate and minute history of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools shall be written, a long chapter must be devoted to the self-sacrificing labors
                    of Thomas U. Elliott, Clenmens Vonnegut, William H. L. Noble, James C. Yohn and John R. Elder.
            [End of Series.]
            
            MRS. SARAH T. BOLTOX, POETESS
            THE FIRST SINGER IS A NEW LAND.
            [The following sketch of Mrs. Bolton is abridged from an article by a friend, Mrs. Gertrude Garrison,
                    published in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, February 22, 1880. It gives an intimate and first-hand picture of a
                    striking personality whose memory should be preserved.—EDITOR.]
            Sarah T. Bolton was for many years the first and only literary woman in the 
                        Mississippi
                     valley. More than forty years ago, when poetry was as phenomenal in the West as stars
                    in daylight, she became known to Indiana as a poet, and has held that rank in the peerage of letters
                    ever since. * * * Mrs. Bolton is still with us, and there is not
                    the slightest hint of a decrease of intellectual vigor in her literary work. The years have
                    broadened her thought, given her greater versatility and greater scope. She is sixty-six years old,
                    and, after the manner of intellectual women, has gained something from time, instead of surrendering
                    all to him. Her face has gathered lines where roses once bloomed, and the glad light of youth has
                    given place to the calm expectation that belongs only to those who have put their lives behind them.
                    She has a petite figure and intellectual face, and an abundance of beautiful brown hair, in which
                    the threads of glittering gray are still very rare. Her movements are quick, like those of a bird,
                    and her manners natural and pleasing. She knows how to say agreeable things cleverly, and the desire
                    to confer pleasure is a part of her nature. It would be impossible to describe her personality. It
                    has been attempted many times, and always resulted in blank failure. She is herself, individual and
                    distinctive, unlike anybody else. To see her once is to remember her always. You might say of her
                    that she is quaint; she is like a portrait you would find in some old magazine, odd and interesting,
                    with an original confusion of laces and unique feminine adjuncts. She has never vexed herself with
                    fashion's mandates. She wears what she has with grace and dignity, and is as attractive in
                    garments made seasons ago as any one could be arrayed in the latest mode. She is dainty in
                    everything. * * *
            
            Mrs. Bolton is a Kentuckian by birth. Her father was the youngest son of Lemuel Barrett, a
                    distinguished officer in the war for independence. Her mother was one of the Pendletons, of 
                        Virginia
                    , who were related to James Madison. When Sarah was a toddling baby her father came to
                    Indiana, and settled in 
                        Jennings county
                    . The country was wild, the forests almost unbroken, and civilization still in the
                    future. Not liking this isolation, he removed to 
                        Madison
                    , and there his daughter grew to womanhood. She received the best education the place
                    afforded, and in school was distinguished for unusual brightness. Some of the boys who trudged by
                    her side up and down the long hill between the old and new town every day (the school was in 
                        North Madison
                    ) have earned renown in life, among them Jesse D. Bright, who was considered the
                    "smartest boy in school," as Sarah Barrett was the "smartest
                    girl." She is the only one of the girls who has won distinction. * *
                    *
            Miss Earrett married young and was fortunate in her marriage. Her husband, Nathaniel Eolton, was in
                    newspaper life in 
                        Madison
                    , and in 1822, in connection with Judge Smith, his stepfather, had published the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gazette, the pioneer newspaper of the city. Mr. Eolton was a man of great energy and
                    ability, and during his life was largely identified with the development and upbuilding of the
                    State. In addition to his newspaper work, he served the State in several important public positions.
                    He was register of the land office in this city, a member of the Legislature, State librarian, and
                    in 1855, under President Pierce's administration, was consul at 
                  Geneva, Switzerland
               . He
                    died in 1858. One who knew him well said of him: "He was a man of blameless life, of honest
                    motives, and of useful exertions." With him Mrs. Bolton, though she saw much happiness,
                    experienced some financial stringency and performed much hard labor. They were possessed of
                    considerable property until the great pressure of 1837 and 1838. Speaking of that era, Mrs. Bolton
                    said:
            "Few of this later generation ever saw such times. There was absolutely no money. Property
                    was a burden instead of a help to any one. It could not be converted into food or clothing. I made
                    our garments from the sheep's back. As for leisure, I had none.  What time I was not cooking, or spinning, or sewing, I helped my
                    husband in the office. Printers were scarce in those days, and sometimes money was still scarcer,
                    and so I learned typesetting, and did what I could toward helping my husband do his press-work. The
                    first rollers ever made in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were cast in my kitchen."
            Mrs. Bolton accompanied her husband to 
                        Geneva
                    . General Drake and his wife went with them to 
                        Paris
                    . Their little party were the first people who ever went to Europe from Indiana, and the
                    event excited wonder and talk, for going to Europe then seemed about as feasible as a journey to the
                    moon. Mrs. Bolton says she still remembers the incredulous looks and badly concealed smiles of
                    disbelief with which her talk of the proposed trip was received. People who started for so distant a
                    land as Europe were considered as good as lost by their townsmen. The fervent goodbyes sent after
                    them were like those spoken to the dying. The residence of the poetess abroad was one of the
                    brightest epochs in her life. She had achieved as much fame as any American poet, more than any
                    other American woman, and her house was the resort of the literati of the new world who visited 
                        Geneva
                    . Bayard Taylor, Horace Greeley, and many others distinguished in letters and politics,
                    were always made welcome to the parlors of the American consul.
            Mrs. Bolton knows, better perhaps than any younger author, how meager is the financial recompense for
                    the products of the mind. That she was able to win as much consideration as she did while the
                    country was so new and unlettered, is marvelous. While her poems were going the rounds of the few
                    literary periodicals then in existence, and were being read and admired everywhere, she was at home
                    working hard at some drudgery of the household which a few dollars would have paid some one less
                    gifted intellectually for doing. Had she received ever so small a compensation, it would have
                    lightened her labors, encouraged her, and afforded her time for more literary work. As it was, her
                    opportunities for writing were so rare, a market for her work so uncertain, and her other duties so
                    numerous, that only when thought came and fought for utterance did she pause  long enough 'in her busy life to transcribe it to paper. After
                    her husband's financial reverses they removed to a farm which is now the site of the asylum
                    for the insane. There they lived ten years, seven of which went by, in which her hands had no time
                    to wield the pen.
            One of the mediums through which the world was made acquainted with her name was the Home Journal, of 
                        New York
                    . It was then a "leading" literary paper, conducted by N. P. Willis
                    and George P. Morris, personal friends of Mrs. Bolton. It was the means of introducing all the
                    writers to each other and the public, and did much toward developing the country's
                    literature.
            Thirty years ago Robert Dale Owen wrote a sketch of Mrs. Bolton for the Home Journal which was widely
                    copied. It is not strange that this paper was so well loved. It was for a while almost the only
                    outlet for literary talent. It was the one gleam of brightness in an ocean of darkness, in which
                    poets and story-writers drifted in hopeless isolation. The aspiring soul knows no more sickening
                    sensation than that of finding no channel through which it can reach appreciative ears.
                    Sartain's Magazine was another medium through which Mrs. Bolton sang to the world. The few
                    copies of it still preserved in old garrets and libraries contain, among many curious as well as
                    excellent specimens of literature, some of the popular songs and poems we all remember to have heard
                    in our childhood, whose author we scarcely thought of. The name of Sarah T. Bolton will be found
                    attached to them. In lyrical composition Mrs. Bolton has been remarkably successful. She wrote
                    fifteen songs which were long popular wherever the English language is spoken, and
                    yet—how perverse is the law of compensation!—she was never enriched one dollar
                    by them. "Paddle Your Own Canoe," "I Cannot Call Her Mother" and
                    "A Reply to Katy Darling" were among them. Publishers frequently wrote her
                    requesting a song. She always graciously complied with the request, though often at great
                    inconvenience on account of her busy life; and the only return they ever made her was to send a copy
                    or two of the song when it was published. One music publisher sold 22,000 copies of one of her
                    songs, and yet never paid her a dollar nor  sent her a word of
                    thanks. Publishers, as well as republics, are ungrateful. When the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Commercial began its existence its intent was literary—a trend it has not
                    entirely departed from to this day. It paid her $15 for three poems. This was so
                    munificent a price, in comparison with what she had ever before received, that to this day she
                    laughingly declared she never hears the Commercial mentioned without feeling a throb of unspeakable
                    gratitude.
            While she was building her reputation the antagonism between the East and West was more definitely
                    marked than now. Anything sent to an Eastern publisher from a writer in the West not personally
                    known to him was moderately sure to come back to the author, accompanied by a polite but
                    disheartening note to the effect that "though the article was not without merit, and its
                    author was assuredly destined to literary renown, etc., etc., it was not exactly suited to their
                    columns." That was the courteous way Eastern editors sawed off the budding geniuses of the
                    West at the knees. A poem of Mrs. Bolton's was sent back to her by the Harpers, but after
                    it had appeared in an English magazine it was copied into Harper's Weekly and highly
                    praised because it had been written by an American lady. Like all other writers, she has been robbed
                    of much of the honor due her by vague and indefinite credits, such as, "The following
                    exquisite poem, written by a lady of the West, has been received with general favor
                    everywhere," or, "An 
                        Indianapolis
                     lady contributes these charming verses." She relates an instance of the
                    contrast between the measure of appreciation of literature in 
                        England
                     and in this land of the free and cradle of slang. She sent a poem of two or three
                    verses to the editor of an English magazine, thinking it would be compliment enough to have it
                    appear in so critical a publication, whose pages were brightened by the best minds of Europe. It was
                    published with illustrations, and she was astonished and delighted to receive a five-pound note from
                    the publisher, and a letter which was almost dazzling in its praises, and which urged her to send
                    him contributions often. At that time she was in no special need of money, and her time engrossed by
                    other duties, and so this rare opportunity went by.
            
            Those were hard days on poets. There was but little to inspire genius and much to oppress it. But
                    poetry is harder to kill than ragweed. It will grow, let the soil be what it may. There were some
                    rich people in 
                        Indianapolis
                     when Mrs. Bolton was poor, who might have given her much substantial encouragement, but
                    they did not.
            Yet, though there were enough and too many persons of the same order, there were many excellent,
                    sympathetic and appreciative men and women in 
                        Indianapolis
                     even then, who were companionable and congenial in many respects. Society was
                    necessarily crude and unlettered. Men were hewing a foothold in life and women were helping them.
                    Mrs. Bolton's friends were the first people of the State. Governors and officials of every
                    degree were well known to her. "But you have no idea," she says, "how
                    coarse and commonplace they often were. Occasionally a member of the Legislature would have some
                    faint perception of something fine in literature, would read a book through at rare intervals, and
                    be able to catch a glimmering idea of its beauties of diction and splendor of thought, but for the
                    most part literature was the last thing they thought of."
            Contemporaries of her own sex within the State she had none, save Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, of 
                        Ohio
                    , who became a resident of 
                        Vevay
                     in 1814. In 
                        Cincinnati
                     there were the Carey sisters and a few others, and one or two in 
                        Louisville
                    . How can we who have around us a population teeming with intellectual wealth, rich in
                    poets and literary stores, imagine the solitude Mrs. Bolton must have dwelt in in that time when
                    against poetry every door seemed barred and bolted?
            REMINISCENCES OF THE EDITOR.
            When the above was written Mrs. Bolton lived at her country place, " Beechbank,"
                    about four miles southeast of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , near the present suburban town of 
                        Beech Grove
                    . There she hoped and expected to end her days, but circumstances determined otherwise,
                    and in time she returned to the city, where she died. The early home of the present writer was in
                    the neighborhood  of Beechbank, and he well remembers the
                    mingled awe and curiosity he felt when he saw her first, at a cattle sale, where she was bidding in
                    live stock for her farm, her genial presence and bubbling humor adding grace even to that prosy
                    environment. She was just home from abroad, and in that rustic neighborhood her reputation as a
                    distinguished poetess and traveler loomed big. Later the boy in question came to know her better,
                    and among his pleasantest memories are those of this piquant and delightful mother of Indiana verse.
                    Her social qualities, for which she was justly famed, were of the rare kind that applied always and
                    everywhere. In a country party as in a fashionable city gathering, she genuinely and with keen zest
                    shared the spirit of the occasion, and at vis-a-vis the rudest swain or maiden forgot their
                    uncouthness. Once or twice I (to adopt the more convenient pronoun) saw her at a
                    "literary," similar to the one where Tomps read his immortal paper on
                    "Dreenin' Swamps," and there was something childlike in the joy with
                    which she participated. People untrained socially harbor a quick jealousy and resent any imitation
                    cordiality that hints of condescention, and the fact that Mrs. Bolton wholly allayed this feeling on
                    every occasion can be explained only on the ground of her broad and real sympathies and the utter
                    lack of any sense of superiority.
            In those days, when the adolescent imagination was at its high tide, the literary bee buzzed
                    melodiously in my bonnet, and I had mapped out a literary chart of no mean intentions—the
                    elemental qualities of height, breadth and depth it had a-plenty; and as yet—oh, golden
                    age! the deadening wand of disillusion had not touched the dream. My good friend, the poetess, was
                    the first person in my experience to cheerfully sit and listen to all I had to unfold from the heart
                    of many voluminous manuscripts, and, in the midst of her martydom, to call for more. I may add that
                    she was also the last. Looking back on it now and psychologizing, I think that she really found a
                    joy in those seances—that her unsoured milk of human kindness and wealth of sympathy were
                    so genuine as to be proof against such an inconsequential thing as raw would-be literature.
            A reminiscence with its own particular flavor is that of certain 
                    Sunday evenings at 
                        Beechbank
                    , when a few kindred spirits foregathered in the Bolton parlor, with its old-fashioned
                    furnishings, its "whatnots" of bric-a-brac and its stores of curios, and pictures
                    that spoke of the far-off lands where she had sojourned. At such times this sanctuary was a
                    veritable salon, and if the lonely fields without stretched away in wintery desolation, it only
                    intensified the comfort and pleasure of these long and varied conversazioni.
            When the shadows began to gather in the little parlor and the landscape without to grow dim, then
                    came the most memorable feature of these red-letter occasions—the Sunday evening tea. At
                    these little spreads everything was unusual and had its flavor. The vast snowy napkins of finest
                    fabric were relics of the European days; on each china plate was a verse, original with our hostess,
                    written in her own distinctive chirography and burned into the ware; the other furnishings were in
                    keeping, each suggestive of associations, and not least of our relishes was the honor of having our
                    teapot presided over by the most distinguished poetess in Indiana. I have in my mind's eye
                    a very graphic picture of her as she sat there at the head of the table, crowned with her little
                    lace head-dress, and ever alert to join in the talk.
            All who knew Mrs. Bolton will remember her rare charm as a conversationalist—her flowing
                    vivacity enhanced by many gestures, the play of the mobile features and the ever-ready pervasive
                    humor. There were few subjects she could not touch upon with a light and airy grace, but she was at
                    her best when encouraged to talk in a reminiscent vein and pour out the riches of a long and varied
                    experience. Her verbal account of scenes abroad outranked anything I ever read by virtue of the
                    personal flavor and spontaneity that belong to a good raconteur; and from the glamour of this theme
                    she could glide with equal interest to the experiences of rude pioneer days in 
                        Hoosierdom
                    , telling how as a young bride she made her wedding trip from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on horseback, her trousseau in a pair of saddle-bags; of her buckeye cabin home at the
                    capital, from which the green sprouts grew; of the subsequent life on the farm occupied now  by the insane asylum, where she raised poultry, made butter and
                    performed the manifold labors of a farmer's wife. Then there was the "Paddle Your
                    Own Canoe" story, relating how, transformed now from a farmer s wife to the helpmeet of the
                    State Librarian, who was also the general utility man of the State House, she prepared, without
                    help, the carpets for the legislative halls, and, with the work upon her knee and paper and pencil
                    beside her, jotted down by installments her most famous poem, inspired by the difficulties which she
                    herself was overcoming. These stories were always so piquantly told that they bore repetition
                    without losing interest.
            The secret of it all was the keen zest with which, from first to last, Mrs. Bolton greeted life, and
                    the lively fancy which ever awoke to play about her theme. In one sense, she never grew old; her
                    relish of things continued to the end, and a pleasure once tasted was never forgotten. The last time
                    I saw her—shortly before her death—her first words were: "Do you
                    remember those teas we used to have together?" And throughout the final sickness her mind
                    reverted to the sunny scenes of a long life that had also known its deep shadows.
            Mrs. Bolton, while widely recognized and lauded within the borders of her own State, yet reaped but
                    little financial benefit from her works, and, while not at all given to vanity, she could not but
                    feel that the commonwealth for which she had done an earnest and needed service, might have shown a
                    more substantial appreciation. When a collection of books was being made for the World's
                    Fair at 
                        Chicago
                    , she was asked to contribute a copy of her poems. As she could not do so without first
                    purchasing the copy, she declined, and when pressed, replied with a touch of acerbity that as the
                    people of Indiana had never thought enough of her poems to pay for their printing, they need
                    scarcely be concerned about them now.
            The poetess died August 5, 1893, at 504 
                        South New Jersey
                     street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A newspaper account of her death and funeral says: "It was her desire to die
                    as the sun went down, and on Friday evening she asked to be turned that she might face the sun. She
                    told those who watched by her bedside that  she would go away as
                    the sun sank in the west, and after she had been placed so that she might see it fall lower and
                    lower her spirit seemed to pass with it into the great beyond. So when the time for her funeral was
                    set, the sunset hour, which she loved so well, was chosen."
            She lies in Crown Hill cemetery beside the husband of her youth, Nathaniel
                    Bolton, and the simple marker at the head of her grave bears the inscription suggested by this
                    writer:  SARAH T. BOLTON:
                        1814–1893. THE FIRST SINGER IN A NEW LAND.
                    G. S. C.
            
            [This poem by Mrs. Bolton, hitherto unpublished, was found among her papers after her death. For it
                    we are beholden to a granddaughter, Mrs. Adah Bolton Mann, now of 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               .
                    It is all the more interesting because it is a graceful tribute and a generous Godspeed from the
                    pioneer singer to the most gifted and best beloved of an era that she helped to create.]
            
                    TO JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.
                    Riley, if Nature made thy counterpart, In any country, any tribe or clan, In all my wanderings
                        o'er earth-peopled chart, I never found, as yet, the gifted man.
                    If one is good and great who whiles our care, Make us forget awhile the ills of Fate, Lightens
                        the burden every soul must bear, Then, O sweet singer, thou art good and great.
                    Art good, in that thy stones, queer and quaint, Touch close the heart of Nature and the truth,
                        And move alike the sinner and the saint To kindly charity and tender ruth.
                    God speed thee onward, upward, to the hight That only His anointed ones may climb; Since His
                        command went forth, "Let there be light," The poet's mission is a
                        work sublime.
                    December 25th, 1891.
                    SARAH T. BOLTON.
                
            
            CHRISTMAS IN EARLY INDIANAPOLIS.
            BY B. R. SULGROVE
            [Of early Christmas observance in Indiana very little has been published, we believe, in local
                    histories or elsewhere; for which reason this forgotten newspaper contribution of Mr.
                    Sulgrove's has a distinctive interest.—EDITOR.]
            The Christmas of the pioneers of the "New Purchase" varied a little with the
                    difference of nativity. Those from the East brought with them a larger infusion of the religious
                    element than those from the States below the Mason and Dixon's line. 
                        Puritan
                     heredity put a sort of ban on Christmas festivities as it did on plays and circus
                    performances. * * * The Southern settlers from "Old 
                        Virginia
                    ," the 
                        Carolinas
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , were less demonstrative in their religious tendencies and more frank in avowing and
                    exhibiting their taste for fun. There was nothing said or done in the holiday observances of this
                    class more reprehensible than the more sedate entertainments of the other, but it was the
                    unrestrained "whoop and hurra" of a jolly good time that repelled the more visibly
                    pious people. The latter went to church while the others went to shooting matches, and the boys and
                    girls played the household games familiar then, but forgotten now.
            Dancing was a pretty invariable part of the Christmas observances of the
                    "unconverted." The cotillion, as the writer recalls his experiences, was the
                    favorite dance of a large company, but reels and jigs were common in smaller crowds. These were
                    distinguished by names loudly tinted with the extravagance of western humor, as
                    "hoe-downs," "puncheon splitters," and so on. There was no
                    waltzing. Very few of the pioneers ever saw a waltz or any kind of "fancy
                    dancing." It was all straightforward stamping and jumping in time to the music, and that
                    was always of the liveliest kind. None of the airs played in early days by Bill Bagwell or Jo Rouse
                    or old "Dosedo" (a nickname derived from his calling a dancing figure in French,
                    spelled "dos a dos"—back to back) are ever heard now.
                    "Macdonald's Reel," commonly called "Leather Breeches,"
                    was one tune of the ballroom that is preserved in music books, and "Miss McLeod's
                    Reel" is another.
            
            One of the games frequently employed in Christmas diversions was played by a blindfolded lady or
                    gentleman who sat in a chair to guess whether any article that another player held over his or her
                    head belonged to a man or woman. The question was, "Heavy hangs over your head, fine or
                    superfine?" "Superfine" meant that the article belonged to a woman,
                    "fine" to a man. A correct guess gave the blindfold guesser the right to designate
                    a forfeit. "Blind-man's buff" was common, too; and, when playing out of
                    doors was pleasant, a game something like the schoolboys' "prisoners'
                    base" was frequently substituted for the less active games.
            Shooting matches usually took the form of turkey shooting. As it was practiced here, the turkey was
                    set against a stump or a tree and held in place by a log rolled up against him, which concealed all
                    the bird but the head. At this the marksman fired at the customary distance of sixty yards, at ten,
                    fifteen or twenty-five cents a shot. Rests were prohibited, and so rigid was the rule that a skilful
                    shot from 
                        Lafayette
                     by the name of Hotchkiss was not allowed to hold his ramrod in his hand with the barrel
                    of his rifle on it, though neither was nearer the ground than the hand itself. Some of the
                    first-class marksmen would hit a turkey's head at sixty yards two times out of three, and
                    occasionally a man like R. B. Duncan would have half a dozen turkeys to divide among his friends. As
                    these matches gradually disappeared, the celebration of Christmas came nearer uniformity on both
                    sides of the line of religious feeling. The 
                        Puritan
                     rigidity relaxed and the Southern laxity stiffened, and Christmas became what it is
                    now, about equally compounded of religious feeling and social enjoyment.
            It may be noticed here that a form of diversion was kept up for some years on Christmas, and
                    occasionally through the year, that one rarely hears of now, except in sketches of Southern life.
                    That was "gander pulling." In the vicinity of Allisonville, near the north
                    boundary of the county, a couple of farmers at times provided a tough old gander for the fun,
                    stripped his neck of feathers and soaped it, and strung him by the legs to a stout, springing limb
                    of a hardy tree for the country boys to ride at, catch by the greased neck, and try to jerk loose
                    from the limb. It was made profitable in a small way by the owners of the gander, usually a farmer
                    named Lashbrook and his neighbor, Deford.
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            OHIO VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.
            The sixth annual conference of the Ohio Valley Historical Association was held
                    at 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , November 7, 8 and 9. The three-days' program consisted of
                    various addresses bearing on the general topic of "Education in the Ohio
                    Valley Prior to 1840." There were papers or addresses by Mr. Harry Brent Mackay,
                    president of the Association, of 
                  Covington, Kentucky
               ; Mr. James T. Moffat, president of 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson College, 
                  Washington,
                            Pennsylvania
               ; Professor Martolff, of 
                        Ohio
                     University; Professor D. C. Shilling, of 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               ; Mrs. Shelly D.
                    Rouse, of 
                  Covington, Kentucky
               ; Professor W. W. Boyd; President Jane Sherzer, of 
                        Oxford
                     College; Professor Gard, of 
                        Ohio
                     University; Professor Alston Ellis, of 
                        Ohio
                     University; Professor Story, of Monmouth College; Professor Farr, of Lane Theological
                    Seminary; Dr. Otto Jenttner and Professor Charles Greve.
            These addresses, while all bearing directly upon the subject above given, presented a wide variety of
                    aspects, and, collectively, added no little to the fund of educational history. They will all appear
                    in full in an early volume of the 
                        Ohio
                     Archaeological and Historical Association publications.
            The officers elected for the ensuing year were: President, Professor J. E. Bradford, of Miami
                    University; first vice-president, Harlow Lindley, of Earlham College; second vice-president,
                    Professor W. Longmoor, of 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               ; corresponding secretary and treasurer,
                    Professor D. C. Shilling, of 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               ; recording secretary and curator, Miss
                    Elizabeth Crowthers, of the Western College.
            The next meeting will be held at some point south of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, probably at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               .
            
            AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.
            The twenty-eighth annual meeting of the American Historical Association will be held in 
                        Boston
                    . December 27–31. The program presents an interesting variety of features.
                    There will be five general addresses by men of note in the historical field, and about a dozen
                    conferences and special meetings in the different departments of study, with numerous papers and
                    discussions.
            MEETING OF HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The regular annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society will be held at the office of President
                    Daniel Wait Howe, Thursday, December 26, at 2 o'clock. It is to be regretted that there is
                    not a better attendance at these meetings. The demand upon the members comes only once a year, and
                    the business is of sufficient importance to justify some attention.
            NEW ALBANY'S CENTENNIAL.
            
               
                        New Albany
                     will have her centennial celebration in October of next year, and the search of records
                    for historical data is now being made by the centennial committee of the Commercial Club. It has
                    been found that on October 14, 1813, the deed of John Paul, of 
                        Madison
                    , transferring to Nathaniel, Abner and Joel Scribner the site of the city, was filed for
                    record.
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            MR. ESAREY'S "INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS."
            The fragmentary sketches of our internal improvement movements are as nothing compared to the
                    unchronicled facts of that vastly important part of our State's history. In a monograph
                    which will be Number 2 of Volume V of the Indiana Historical Society publications, Mr. Logan Esarey,
                    of Indiana University, presents a study of wider scope than has been attempted heretofore. About the
                    only other study that can be compared with it in thoroughness of research is Elbert Jay
                    Benton's "
                        Wabash
                     Trade Route," and  Mr. Benton, as his
                    title implies, aims only to touch part of the field.
            Mr. Esarey's paper occupies 138 pages, but, as he says in his preface, the subject is much
                    too large for this limit. Nevertheless, within that limit he has succeeded in setting forth very
                    strikingly the kernel and substance of that particular chapter of our history which is always called
                    up by the words "Internal Improvement"—namely, the period of our
                    notorious craze culminating in the act of 1836 whereby the State paternally undertook to build an
                    elaborate system of improved transportation routes, whereby the land and all the inhabitants thereof
                    were to be made prosperous and happy. What came of that paternalism, with its unwisdom and its
                    graft, its politics and its eager feeding at the public crib, ought to be put in the form of a
                    simple text book and passed around among those optimistic people who think that paternalism is the
                    panacea for all human ills. As worked out by Mr. Esarey, the documents in the case are big with
                    lessons for posterity up to the present date, and it is probable that the lessons ought to be heeded
                    for a good while yet in spite of the growth of the new conscience in civic affairs.
            We can not here give to Mr. Esarey's admirable piece of work the space that it ought to
                    have. Suffice to say, it will be appreciated by those students who have long been awaiting some such
                    presentation.
            An interesting map by Mr. E. V. Shockley, of Indiana University, shows the old State system of
                    internal improvements. We would suggest that if the map had a key or legend it would help to a
                    quicker understanding of the various tracings. We note, also, that the monograph is not indexed. We
                    believe this is a mistake. When the pamphlet is bound up with others it will be covered by a general
                    index, but a study like this, which will be much used for reference, might well, for greater
                    convenience, have its own compact index.
            The pamphlet can be had of The Bobbs-Merrill Company for fifty cents.
            G. S. C.
         
         
            A NEW INDIANA BOOK.
            Any book on Indiana based on real study and honestly executed ought to be welcomed, for it promotes
                    an interest in our own State that is much to be desired. "The Story of Indiana and Its
                    People,"  by Robert J. and Max Aley, while it is a
                    contribution to a field already occupied, i. e., the presentation of this subject for juvenile
                    readers, yet brings our history a step nearer to the school children of the State by reason of its
                    arrangement as a text book in compact topical paragraphs. Whatever may be said of the defects of
                    this arrangement as compared with a free and flowing narrative, it seems necessary in order to meet
                    the exigencies of pedagogy as pedagogy has been developed. Such a method is more than apt to produce
                    a mere dry and forbidding skeleton, hut these authors have unusually well succeeded in putting sap
                    and interest into the story. The various phases of our history throughout its span are well
                    presented and, in the main, in just proportion. Of particular interest are four historical charts
                    showing the old French portages between the Great Lakes and the 
                        Mississippi
                     river, the land claims of the thirteen original States, the elements of population and
                    their distribution in the Northwest Territory, and the route taken by John Morgan in his famous
                    Indiana raid. Another map of curious interest is that of the Northwest Territory as divided into the
                    ten States proposed by Jefferson. with their sounding Latin names.
            One criticism we would make is on the presentation of the word Hoosier and its origin. Since J. P.
                    Dunn's exhaustive study of that vexed stibject. as published in volume TV of the Tnfliana
                    Historical Society pamphlets, the origin and meaning of the term may be considered as fairly
                    established. In Mr. Aley's paragraph on "The Probable Origin" there is no
                    recognition of Mr. Dunn's study, but place is given, instead, to the old floating
                    traditions, which are essentially absurd.
            As a handy little reference book for the library shelf the Aley volume is to be recommended. It is
                    published by O. P. Barnes, 
                        Chicago
                    . Price, 80 cents.
            G. S. C.
         
         
            INFORMATION WANTED.
            Dr. G. B. Kuykendall, of Pomeroy, 
                        Washington
                    , desires information regarding the Kuykendall family in Indiana. Some of the family
                    settled in southwestern Indiana, perhans 
                        Knox county
                    , he thinks, at a very early day, and still others in 
                        Vigo county
                    . If any one having knowledge of this family will communicate with Dr. G. B. Kuykendall
                    at the address above given it will be appreciated.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
