
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 62, Issue 2, pages 101-173. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:62+issue:2+year:1966&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The New Purchase: Or, Seven and a Half Years in the Far West
            
                    Baynard Rush Hall
                
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony and Herman J. Viola
                
            Baynard Rush Hall, author of The New Purchase: Or, Seven and a Half Years in the Far
                        West, was both an astute observer and active participant in Indiana pioneer life.1 Born in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1793, he worked for a time as a printer and then, after graduation from Union
                    College and 
                        Princeton
                     Theological Seminary, became a Presbyterian minister. Through his printing activities
                    he had learned of William Henry Harrison, the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and other events associated with the western aspects of the War of 1812 and he became
                    interested in the West. Acting upon that interest he moved his family to Indiana about 1823 and
                    lived for a year or so with relatives near Gosport. Although he did some preaching in the area, Hall
                    perhaps entertained hopes of being selected to the faculty of the Indiana State Seminary, chartered
                    in 1820.
            When the seminary opened, about 1825, Hall became its principal and only professor, charged with the
                    teaching of Greek and Latin to a handful of young men. He remained the seminary's sole
                    teacher until 1827 when John Hopkins Harney of 
                        Kentucky
                     joined the faculty as professor of mathematics and natural philosophy. The following
                    year the general assembly renamed the institution Indiana College, and in 1829 Andrew Wylie, who had
                    been president of 
                        Washington
                     College in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , became its first president. Wylie and Harney were soon combatants in a faculty
                    "fight" which resulted in Harney's dismissal. Meanwhile Hall also became
                    dissatisfied with Wylie's actions, resigned his position, and returned to the East where,
                    before his death in 1863, he continued his religious and educational interests.
            
               The New Purchase, written under the pen name of Robert Carlton, first appeared in
                    1843, somewhat over a decade after Hall's resignation from Indiana College. A condensed
                    version, in which Hall's sometimes blatant criticism of President Wylie was softened,
                    appeared in 1855; and James A. Woodburn, retaining "the original copy without modification
                    or 
                  
                     1 The material which follows is based primarily on the Introduction to
                            Robert Carlton [Baynard Rush Hall], The New Purchase: Or, Seven and a Half
                                Years in the Far West, edited by James A. Woodburn (
                                Princeton
                            , 1916), iii-xii; and R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer
                                Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), II, 388–93.
               
                     expurgation," brought out a third edition in 1916,
                    Indiana's centennial year.2 Judge David D. Banta, himself one of the
                    best historians concerning early Indiana, termed the work "the best and truest history of
                    pioneer life and pioneer surroundings in Indiana that can anywhere be found."3 Although the characters and places are generally fictionalized, the material in the book
                    is more history and autobiography than fiction. The title was derived from the New Purchase Treaty
                    of 1818 by which the Indian claims to nearly all of the vast and fertile central region of Indiana
                    were cleared.
            The two chapters which follow offer interesting samples from the book. The first is Hall's
                    warm and appreciative tribute to 
                        Bloomington
                    's pioneer blacksmith and master craftsman Austin W. Seward. No paraphrasing
                    could do justice to his portrait of Seward who served as blacksmith, rifle-maker, marksman, artist,
                    and musician in a frontier community. The second selection presents a vivid and light-hearted
                    account of the once abundant but now extinct passenger pigeons. Both accounts are interlaced with
                    comments and observations which interpret pioneer life.
            Since Hall makes many references to rifles and shotguns, a brief description of the type of guns
                    mentioned and their operation seems worthwhile. The basic weapon of the period was the
                    muzzle-loading rifle. To load it, the shooter placed the butt of the gun on the ground and poured a
                    measured amount of powder into the barrel. Next he took a piece of oiled cloth or
                    "patch," placed it over the muzzle with a round ball on top, and then pushed them
                    down the barrel with his ramrod. He "primed" the gun by pouring a small quantity
                    of powder into the flashpan. When the trigger was pulled, the hammer, with a piece of flint firmly
                    clamped in its jaws, struck a steel plate creating sparks which ignited the powder in the flashpan,
                    thereby setting off the main powder charge in the barrel.
            The shotgun worked on the same principle as the rifle, but instead of a single bullet it used
                    shot—several chunks of lead—which, after leaving the barrel, sprayed the
                    target and so gave the shooter a greater advantage, especially when hunting birds or small game. At
                    the time Hall was a resident in the New Purchase, shotguns were still novelty items, probably the
                    best and most practical ones being those manufactured by Joseph Manton, an English gunsmith.
            
               
                  2Carlton, The New Purchase (1916), iii.
               
                  3 Quoted in ibid.
               
            
            
            
                    "Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
                    Perpetual sober gods! I do proclaim
                    One honest man—mistake me not—but one."
                    [Shakespeare, Timon of 
                                Athens
                            , Act IV, Scene 3]
                
            
                    "What find I here?
                    Fair Portia's counterfeit? what demi-god
                    Hath come so near creation?"
                    [Shakespeare, Merchant of Venice, Act HI, Scene 2]
                
            THIS chapter is devoted to a man;—Mr. Vulcanus Allheart.1 And, although he will rap our knuckles for smiling at a few smileable things in him, Mr.
                    Allheart will not be displeased to see that Mr. Carlton, the author, remembers his friend, as Mr.
                    Carlton the storekeeper and tanner, always said he would, when we blew his bellows for him or fired
                    rifles together.
            During a life somewhat peculiarly chequered, we have both by land and sea been more or less intimate
                    with excellent persons in the learned professions, and in the commercial, agricultural and
                    mechanical classes; but never out of the circle of kinsfolk, including the agnati and the cognati, have I ever so esteemed, ay, so loved
                    any one as Vulcanus Allheart. And who and what was he?
            He was by birth a Virginian, by trade a blacksmith, by nature a gentleman, and by grace a Christian;
                    if more need be said, he was a genius. Ay! for his sake to this hour I love the very sight and smell
                    of a blacksmith's shop; and, many a time in passing one, do I pause and steal a glance
                    towards the anvil, vainly striving to make some sooty hammerer there 
                  
                     1 These chapters have been reproduced without change from the original
                            edition of Robert Carlton [Baynard Rush Hall], The New Purchase: Or, Seven and
                                a Half Years in the Far West (
                                New York
                            , 1843), 27–38, 253–63. In Robert Carlton [Baynard Rush
                            Hall], The New Purchase: Or, Seven and a Half Years in the Far West,
                            edited by James A. Woodburn (
                                Princeton
                            , 1916), xiii-xvi, is a key to the identity of nearly all of the persons and
                            places mentioned by Hall. The identifications, in the order of their appearance, are: 
                        Vulcanus Allheart
                        Robert Carlton
                        Woodville
                        Insidias Cutswell
                        Ned Stanley
                        Domore
                        Reverend Charles Clarence
                        Harwood
                        Jesse Hardy
                        Doctor Sylvan
                        Austin W. Seward
                        Baynard Rush Hall
                        Bloomington
                        James Whitcomb
                        James Borland
                        Peter Batterton
                        Baynard Rush Hall
                        John H. Harney
                        Not identified
                        Doctor David H. Maxwell
                     
                        
               
                     assume the form and look of my lame friend!—for he
                    was lame from a wound in his thigh received in early life. Oh! how more than willing would I stand
                    once more and blow his bellows to help him gain time for an evening's hunt, could I but see
                    anew that honest charcoal face and that noble soul speaking from those eyes, as he rested a moment
                    to talk till his iron arrived at the proper heat and colour!
            But let none suppose Vulcanus Allheart was a common blacksmith. He was master both of the science and
                    the art, from the nailing of a horse-shoe up to the making of an axe; and to do either right, and
                    specially the latter, is a rare attainment. Not one in a million could make an axe as Allheart made
                    it; and hence in a wooden country, where life, civilization, and Christianity itself, are so
                    dependent on the axe, my blacksmith was truly a jewel of a man. His axes, even where silver was
                    hoarded as a miser's gold, brought, in real cash, one dollar beyond any patent flashy
                    affairs from New 
                        England
                    , done up in pine boxes and painted half black, while their edge part was polished and
                    shiney as a new razor—and like that article, made not to shave but to
                        sett; and all this his axes commanded, spite of the universal nation,
                    all-powerful and tricky as it is. No man in the Union could temper steel as my friend tempered; and
                    workmen from 
                        Birmingham
                     and Sheffield, who sometimes wandered to us from the world beyond the ocean, were
                    amazed to find a man in the Purchase that knew and practised their own secrets.
            Necessity led him to attempt one thing and another out of his line, till, to accommodate neighbours,
                    (and any man was his neighbour) he made sickles, locks and keys, augurs, adzes,
                    chisels, planes, in short, any thing for making which are used iron and steel. His fame consequently
                    extended gradually over the West two hundred miles at least in any direction; for from that distance
                    came people to have well done at Woodville, what otherwise must have been done, or a sort of done,
                    at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Nay, liberal offers were made to Allheart to induce him to remove to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ; but he loved us too much to accept them; and beside, he was daily becoming richer,
                    having made a very remarkable discovery, which, however, he used to impart to others for a
                    consideration—viz. he had found out the curious art of beating iron into gold. My friend
                    was indeed the great "Lyon" of the West.∗
            
            
               
                  ∗ It is hoped all the "Lyon's"
                        friends of 
                            Philadelphia
                         will patronize this book.
            
            
            Mr. Allheart's skill was great also in rifle-making, and also naturally enough in
                    rifle-shooting. I have compared 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Eastern and Down-eastern rifles with his, (for the one concealed in my chamber is a
                    present from Allheart,) but none are so true, and none have sights that will permit the drawing of a
                    bead so smooth and round. Does any maker doubt this? Grant me three months to regain my former
                    skill, and I stake my rifle against all you have on hand, that she beats the things, one and all,
                    eighty-five yards off-hand—or (as I shall only give back your articles) I'll try
                    you for the fun and glory alone! By the way, do you shoot with both eyes open? If not, let me
                    commend the practice, both from its superiority and because it may save you from killing your own
                    wife, as it did Mr. Allheart once.
            He excelled, we have intimated, as a marksman. Perhaps in horizontal shooting he could not have a
                    superior; for in his hands the rifle was motionless as if screwed in one of his vices; and thence
                    would deliver ball after ball at fifty, sixty, or seventy yards, into one and the same augur hole.
                    For him missing was even difficult; and all I had ever heard of splitting bullets
                    on the edge of axe or knife, hitting tenpenny nails on the head, and so forth, was accomplished by
                    Allheart. And his sight had become like that of the lynx; for at the crack of the gun he would
                    himself call out where the ball had struck. Nor is all this so wonderful if we recollect that many
                    years in proving rifles he practised daily; indeed target-shooting was a branch of his
                    business—and in it his skill became rare, ay! even bewitching!
            His place for making these daily trials was at first a large stump some seventy yards distant on the
                    far side of a hollow, against which stump was fixed his target; and along that ravine his wife, a
                    pretty young woman, used to pass and repass to get water from a spring at the lower end. Her almost
                    miraculous escape in that ravine I shall give in Mr. Allheart's own words, although his
                    idiom was slightly inaccurate and provincial.
            "You say, why can't we shoot across the holler agin that ole walnut stump yander? I
                    ain't pinted a rifle across thare for four year—and never intend to no
                    more."
            "Why so, Vulcanus? I'm sure 'tis a capital place for our mark."
            "Well, Mr. Carlton, I'll tell you, and then you wont wonder. One day, about six
                    months after we was furst  married, I had a powerful big bore∗ to fix for a feller going out West; and so I sit down just
                    here—(at the shop door) — to take it with a rest agin a clap-board standing
                    before that stump, and where I always before tried our guns. I sit down, as I sort a suspicioned the
                    hind sight mought be a lettle too fur to the right, and I wanted to shoot furst with allowance, and
                    then plump at the centre without no allowance—and then to try two shots afterwards
                    off-hand. Well, I got all fixed, and was jeest drawing a fine bead, and had my finger actially
                    forrard of the front triggur—(and she went powerful easy) — and was a holdin
                    my breath—when something darkened the sight, and my left eye ketch'd a glimpse
                    of something atween me and the dimind—and I sort a raised up my head so—and
                    there was Molly's head (Mrs. Allheart's)—with the bucket in her hand a
                    goin for water! She pass'd you know in a instant, almost afore I could throw up the muzzle;
                    but, Mr. Carlton, if I hadn't a had both eyes open or no presence of mind, she'd a
                    been killed to a dead certainty! I unsot the triggurs and went right in; and for more nor two hours
                    my hand trembled so powerful I couldn't hold a hammer or use a file. And that's
                    the reason I never fired across to that ole stump since, and why I never will agin."
            But another reason for shooting with both eyes open is, that a curious experiment in optics cannot
                    conveniently be made with one eye closed—an experiment taught me by Mr. Allheart. And
                    hence I would now commend both our book and the experiment to all spectacle-makers and
                    spectacle-wearers—to all ladies and ladies' gentlemen with
                    quizzing-glasses—in fact to all persons with two or more eyes, and all speculative and
                    practical opticians.
            EXPERIMENT.
            Place over the muzzle of your loaded rifle a piece of paste-board about four inches square, and so as
                    entirely to prevent the right eye while looking steadily on the bead in the hind
                    sight from seeing the diamond mark in the target placed twenty yards from you; then keep the left eye fixed immoveably on the diamond, and stand yourself without motion thus
                    for a few seconds; and then will the thick paper over your muzzle disappear, and you will see or
                    seem to see the diamond mark with your right eye and mixing with 
                  
                     ∗ A rifle of large calibre—for war and
                        buffalo.
               
                     the bead—touch then your "forrard"
                    trigger and your ball is in the centre of the target. A dead rest is indispensable for this
                    experiment. N.B.—If this experiment properly done fails, I will give you a copy of this
                    work; provided, if I myself can successfully perform it, you will purchase two copies.
            When it is said Mr. Allheart made rifles, be it understood as certain rules of grammar, in the widest
                    sense; for his making was not like a watch-maker's a mere putting parts and pieces
                    together, but our artist made first all the separate parts and pieces, and then combined them into a
                    gun. He made, and often with his own hand, the barrel—the stock—the
                    lock—the bullet moulds, complete; the brass, gold, or silver mountings; the gravings, the
                    everything! And each and every part and the whole was so well executed, that one would think all the
                    workmen required to make a pin had been separately employed upon the rifle! He even made the steel
                    gouges for stamping names on his own work, and also for stamping type-founders' matrices;
                    he made, moreover, tools for boring musical instruments.
            And this last reminds me that Allheart was the most "musical blacksmith" I ever
                    knew—more so probably than our learned blacksmiths. Not only could he play the ordinary
                    and extraordinary anvil tunes with hammers of all sizes, making "sparks" and
                    points, too, of light flash out much warmer and far more brilliant than ever sprang from the
                    goat-strings of the Italian Maestro under the flagella-ting horse-hair, but Allheart played the
                    dulcimer, a monotone instrument shaped like an Æolian harp, and done with a plectrum on
                    wire strings; and could, beyond all doubt, have easily played a sackbut, psaltery and cymbals!
            He soon became enamoured of the flute; and on my proposing to give him lessons, he purchased an
                    instrument and attended regularly at my house one or more evenings of every week for two years, till
                    he became as great a proficient as his master, and from that to the present time (as he lately wrote
                    me) he has been the conductor of the Woodville Band. Perhaps my friend's musical enthusiasm
                    may be better understood from the following little incident. His hands and fingers were nearly as
                    hard as cast-iron; but this, while no small advantage in fingering the iron strings of a dulcimer,
                    or in playing on the sonorous anvil, was a serious disadvantage in flute-playing; for the indurated
                    points of his fingers stopped the holes like keys with badly formed metallic plugs, and  permitted the air to leak out. On several occasions I had admired
                    secretly the fresh and polished look of his finger-points when he came to take lessons; till once he
                    accidentally, and with the most delightful naivete, unfolded the cause in answer to the following
                    indirect query: —
            "You are quite late to-night, Allheart?"
            "Yes—ruther—but some customers from Kaintuck stopped me, and after
                    that I had to stay till I filed down my fingers!"
            
            My friend was besides all this a painter. And verily, as to the lettering of signs, the shading, the
                    bronzing, the peppering and salting, and so forth, I defy any first-rate glazier any where to beat
                    Allheart; for he yet does signs for his neighbours, and more from the goodness of his heart and the
                    love of the arts than for gain. To be sure, formerly he would mis-punctuate a little, placing commas
                    for periods and periods where no diacritical mark was needed —although I do believe he
                    sometimes, like a wag of a printer, only followed copy. One thing is certain, he never improperly
                    omitted a capital, though he may have put such in where it might have been omitted; but then, this
                    only rendered the name more conspicuous, and the sign itself altogether more capital,
            Lettering was not, however, his sole forte; he aspired to pictorial devices, such
                    as vignettes; and at last he ventured boldly upon portraits and even full-length figures. His own
                    portrait was among the very first he took, and that by means of a mirror; but, whether from modesty
                    or want of skill, or want of faithfulness in the glass, the likeness was not very flattering. And
                    yet one thing done by our New Purchase artist ought (I speak with becoming deference) to be imitated
                    by many eminent eastern portrait-painters.
            "What is that, sir?"
            Well, I am actuated by the best of motives, gentlemen, as it was a peculiarity in Mr.
                    Allheart's finish, by which, however bad the mere painting, the likeness intended could
                    always be seen at a glance if you knew how to look.
            "What was it, sir? we are impatient."
            Why, he always painted on the frame of the picture the name of the person to whom the likeness or portait belonged.∗
            
            
               
                  ∗ In this request of ours I am well satisfied hundreds of
                        bashful folks cordially unite; so that portrait-painters, if they have benevolent hearts, will
                        adopt this ingenious expedient.
            
            
            But the chef-d'oeuvre of Allheart was a full-length figure of the American Goddess, Liberty,
                    done for the sign of the new hotel—the Woodville House. He was engaged at this picture,
                    during the intervals stolen from his smithery, one whole summer: and many were the wondering
                    visitors, from far and near, that favoured the artist with their company and remarks. For most
                    matters here done in private were with us then done in public,—this of course being
                    conducive to the perfection of the fine arts. And hence it is not surprising that Allheart,
                    profiting by the endless remarks and suggestions of our democratical people, should have embodied
                    all the best sentiment of the purest republicans in nature, and given to the Purchase the very beau ideal of American Liberty.
            I shall attempt no elaborate critique, but shall say enough to help intelligent readers to a fair
                    conception of this piece [.]
            The Goddess, like a courageous and independent divinity, stood, Juno fashion, right straight up and
                    down the canvass, and with immoveable and fearless eyes fronted the spectator and looked exactly
                    into his face; thus countenancing persecuted freemen, to the confusion of all
                    tyrannical oppressors! Her face, in size and feature, was a model for wholesome Dutch milkmaids to
                    copy after; but the cheeks, instead of blushing, were, I regret to say, only painted red, like those
                    of an actress too highly rouged.
            In the right hand was a flag-staff, less indeed than a liberty-pole or Jackson-hickory, but
                    considerably larger every way than a broom-handle; and on its top was hung, exactly in the centre, a
                    cap—thus by its perfect balance and equidistances of all parts of the rim from the staff,
                    showing that liberty is justice, and is independent and impartial. The cap had, however, an ominous
                    resemblance to one of Jack Ketch's,2 and no doubt foreign despots,
                    ecclesiastical and secular, will pull said article over Liberty's eyes, if they succeed in
                    apprehending and hanging her.
            On the left shoulder squatted a magnificent eagle in all the plenitude of stiff golden feathers, and
                    in the act of being-a-going to drink from a good sized bowl held up by the left-hand fingers of the
                    goddess. What was the mixture could not be seen—the bowl was so high—but most
                    probably it was a sleeping-potion, as the bird seemed settled for a night's roost. Nay,
                    this was the sentiment intended—to mark a time 
                  
                     2 According to Woodburn, Jack Ketch is a name applied to hangmen,
                            Carlton, The New Purchase (1916), 284.
               
                     of profound peace, like shutting the gates of Janus: and hence
                    the eagle held in his claws no arrowy thunder and lightning, being evidently disposed to let kings
                    alone to take their naps, if they would let him alone to take his. The idea was equal in sublimity
                    to Pindar's eagle snoozing on Jupiter's sceptre at the music of Orpheus; although
                    my friend's bird was uncommonly big and heavy—but then his goddess was hale and
                    hearty.
            The drapery or dress was a neat white muslin slip then fashionable in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was the 
                        Paris
                     whence we derived fashions; and this simple attire was tied gently under the celestial
                    bosom, which was heaved far up towards the chin, as if the heart was swollen with one endless and
                    irrepressible emotion, and threatened some day or other to sunder the tie and burst right out,
                    breast and all, through the frail barrier of the frock! Yet doubtless the slip was high in the back,
                    and a là Kaintuque, well secured between the shoulders, so that if
                    things gave way in the front, there was still some support from behind—but then it looked
                    dangerous. The frock was, however, undeniably starched and rather too short—(owing maybe
                    to the upward heave of the bosom, as is the case sometimes with dresses from ill-made or too much
                    tournure and bustle,)—for the article stood forth, not from the canvass
                    but from the person, and all smooth and unwrinkled as if just from under the hot
                    smoothing-iron! And, alas! its great brevity—(and the figure up so high too)
                    —revealed the sturdy ankles away up till they began to turn into limbs!
            The feet, unlike Liberty's martyrs in the Revolution, and to indicate our advance in comfort
                    and security, and perhaps in compliment to a ladies' shoe-maker just established next the
                    Woodville House, were covered with a pair of red morocco slippers; while on the ankles and upwards
                    were drawn nice white stockings—so that there was no denudity of limb,
                    as a lady-reader may have feared, and the fashionable frock was not so bad after all. Some error,
                    perhaps, in foreshortening had happened as to the position of the feet, or rather the red moroccos;
                    for, while the artist designed to respresent the right foot as stepping from the other, and the
                    left, as pointing the shoe-toe at the spectator immediately in front, yet the right shoe was fixed
                    horizontally with its heel at a right angle with the other, and that other, the left hung
                    perpendicularly  down as if broken at the instep—a
                    marvellous likeness to the two slippers on the shoe-maker's own sign, one there with its
                    sole slap against the board, and the other up and down as if hung upon a peg.
            And oh! how I do wish I had not been born before the era of composition
                    books!—or only now could take a few lessons with the author of one!—so as
                    write with all the modern improvements, like the talented family of the Tailmaquers in the leading
                    magazines and other picture-books for grown up children!—I should so like to describe the
                    putting up of our new tavern post, and the first hanging of the Goddess of Liberty! But
                    that's not for the like of me—I'm no orator as Brutus. How can I paint
                    the open-mouthed wonder of that crowd! How make you see the hunchings!—the
                    winks!—the nods!—the pointings!—or hear the
                    exclamations!—the queries!—the allowings!—the
                    powerfuls!—the uproar? And when lawyer Insidias Cutswell, candidate for Congress, mounted
                    the "hoss block" at the post, and ended his half-hour's
                    speech—oh! I never!
            EXTRACT.
            —Beautiful, indeed, fellow-citizens, vibrates above us in the free air and sunshine of
                    Heaven, that picture! but more beautiful even is our own dear, blood-bought liberty! Long! long may
                    her sign dance and rejoice there—(pointing
                    up)—long, long may her image repose here—(slapping the chest and rather
                    low)—and long, long, long live our enterprising townsman and
                    fellow-citizen, who, untaught, has yet so ably embodied all that is substantial and solid, and
                    upright and unflinching and stable in abstract, glorious, lovely
                    liberty—our townsman, Allheart!"
            But "Non possumus omnia" [We cannot do everything] must be our moral and
                    conclusion.
            
            
                    "In vain, alas! in vain, ye gallant few!
                    From rank to rank your vollied thunder flew!"
                    
                        [Thomas'] 
                                Campbell
                            , [Pleasures of Hope]
                    
                    —never did I hear
                    Such gallant chiding, for, besides the groves,
                    The skies, the fountains, every region near
                    Seem'd all one mutual cryt"
                    [Unidentified]
                
            THIS autumn was remarkable for wild pigeons. The mast had failed
                    elsewhere; while with us, the oak, the beech, and all other nut trees, had never borne more abundant
                    crops. The woods, therefore, teemed with hogs, squirrels, and all other nut-crackers, that, like the
                    primitive men of poetry, preferred this acorn-life.
            How many swine were slaughtered this fall, I never learned: but, within six weeks, our upper and
                    lower regiments of hunters, and simply by shooting occasionally around their clearings, on counting,
                    at the muster, their squirrel scalps, found the sum more than 30,000!!
            As to pigeons, the first large flocks attracted no unusual notice: and, yet, were they mere scouting
                    parties from the grand army! For, within a week, that army began to arrive, as though flocks had
                    never before been seen! and all the birds under the whole heavens, had been congregated into one
                    company! Had the leaves of our trees all been changed into birds, the number could have been no
                    greater!
            With a friend, I stood in an open space in the woods, two miles east of Woodville, from 10
                    o'clock ?.M. to 3 o'clock, P.M.—five hours—during which,
                    with scarcely thirty seconds intermission, a stream of pigeons, about two hundred yards wide, and
                    averaging two layers, flowed above us, and with the rapidity of thought! It was an endless hurricane
                    on wings, rushing innoxious, yet with such an uproar as seemed to be prostrating the forests: and
                    the deep reverberating thunder, in the distant wilds, seemed to announce the fall of their ponderous
                    and ancient trees! Never had I felt the awe and solemnity of sound thus; even in beholding the
                    wind-tempest pass over the same wilds, bowing the submissive woods, and bearing onward their wide
                    tops, as if mown off with an angel's scythe!
            It will readily be thought, our hunters and sportsmen were in all places firing away at the living
                    torrent: and yet, with but small loss to the pigeons. Rifles are useless in  firing at very distant and flying troops; and we had not more than a
                    dozen Leather-stockings in the Purchase, able to single out and kill a bird at a time.
            "Why not use shot-guns?" What a question! "Well—but
                    why?" Why, first and foremost, that toy could not be found in twenty houses in the whole
                    Purchase. Secondly, our men could hardly be coaxed to use the thing, both out of
                    contempt, and, what may seem strange, out of a little fear; for, as Ned said, "the spiteful
                    critter kick'd so powerful." Beside, it is unfavourable to rifle-shooting to
                    acquire the dodge taught by a shot-gun. But, lastly, the pigeons usually flew twenty yards above our trees—and that rendered the Mantons, or any best shot-guns, as
                    efficacious nearly as—a quill and a slice of potato.
            However, all the shot-guns and horse-pistols were sought and fixed, so feverish became the
                    excitement, and since there were half-cut backwoodsmen enough, and some degenerate natives to use
                    them. But here was the next difficulty; powder was plenty.—yet, who had shot? In our
                    store was not a pound; and it was the same almost in the others. Still, a few pounds were ferretted
                    from lurking places, and readily sold at thirty-seven and half cents for a scant
                    pound:—whence was proved, that a pound of lead in shot-shape, is not even as heavy as a pound of feathers!—the air-pump to the contrary notwithstanding.
            With immense persuasion, Ned and Domore consented to shoot horse-pistols: but they both utterly
                    refused to fire off "store-shot." And, like some others, they hammered bullets
                    into bars; which were then cut into cubes and triangles, this being "a sort a-shootin
                    bullets, and no inkuridjment to storekeepers to bring out their blasted baby shot!"
            In justice to my own manhood, it must be told, I stooped not to the shot concern till after several
                    day's failure in hitting with my rifle, a single bird, at 140 yards, and moving as near
                    like "the greased lightning" as possible: nor then, before the following accident
                    showed there may be danger in firing a rifle as well as a shot-gun. Satisfied that the rifle must be
                    fired now by the doctrine of chances, and not of "the sights;" and that the chance
                    with one bullet was a "slim chance," it seemed better to multiply chances, and
                    load with two balls instead of one. And yet the spaces between the flying birds were as plentiful as
                    birds; and, into these spaces the two balls chanced to go when they parted company, or, if they
                    stuck together, it was, after all, but one  chance. Therefore,
                    we at last ventured on patching the balls separately; and then, indeed, the effect
                    was considerably different; not, however, upon the pigeons, but at my end of the gun: for, at the
                    flash, I was suddenly driven partly around, and with a tingling in the fingers supporting the
                    barrel, while about me, for several yards, lay the silver mounting and ornaments of my rifle!
            "What was the matter?"
            The piece had burst; and the stock was shattered up to the spot sustained by my left hand! and, yet,
                    had I received no material injury! On the same day, and from the same cause,—(air
                    intercepted between the patched balls)—another rifle burst; and, although the owner
                    remained with its butt only in his hand, he too was unharmed midst the scattered fragments of wood
                    and iron. Ned's remark about the accidents, was paradoxical, for he "Bust his rifle, if he allowed a rifle would a-busted no how!"
            After this, I descended to the shot-gun. But, while I took my station in the opening already named,
                    and, furnished with two and a half theoretic pounds of different sized shot, fired away till all was
                    expended, I was rewarded with only two pigeons—these being from a small cloud that, by
                    some accident, flew a few yards below the tree-tops, and both killed at one fire.
            One evening, shortly after sunset, Ned Stanley brought a report into the village, that the pigeons
                    were forming an encampment for the night somewhere to the south-east. And, not long after, this was
                    confirmed by Domore, who had surprised an out-post, nestling in the woods within a mile and a half
                    of Woodville.
            Had a scout brought intelligence of a hostile Indian band, our town could not have been more
                    effectually roused and speedily armed. And now, verily, shot-guns and shot rose a thousand per
                    cent.—like caterpillars' eggs in the mulberry fever: and every where some body met any body and every body, legs
                    and all, full tilt in search of the article! Turkeys, sang, coon-skins,
                    ven's'n-hams, and even cash (hoarded to buy
                    land!)—were offered for guns, pistols, and shot!—and, all round, could be seen
                    and heard men and boys hammering, rolling, and cutting shot! Indeed, many intended to fire this
                    extemporaneous shot out of—rifles! And when hunters, or even semi-hunters, can so demean
                    these—the temptation and excitement must be prodigious!
            
            Some could not procure even rifles; and these persons, by the aid of Vulcanus Allheart and his boys,
                    had old pistol and gun barrels hastily mounted on rude stocks, to be fired in partnership, one
                    holding the matchlock, and the other "touching her off" with an
                    ignited stick or cigar.
            "What was all this stir about?" Why, for a night attack on the
                    Grand Roosting Encampment! For, since the Purchase became a purchase, never, in the memory of our
                    oldest and most respectable squatters, had such an occurrence happened, as for the pigeons to roost
                    so near Woodville! Now, some had read in Ornithology, and others had been told by people from 
                        Kentucky
                    —oh! such wonders about roosts and encampments! how pigeons covered all the
                    branches; and then perched on one another, till the trees became living pyramids of feathers! And
                    how, then, all tumbled down and killed themselves, till the ground was covered with dead pigeons,
                    oh! as much as two feet!—like quails round the Israelitish camp! Yes! and the pigeons
                    slept so sound, and were so averse to flying in the dark, that you could walk up and gather birds
                    from trees like wild-plums in a prairie! Ay! and the farmers used to camp near a roost, with droves
                    of hogs; which, (after the farmers had barrelled up enough birds for winter,) were driven in every
                    morning to be fattened on dead pigeons!
            "Did you believe all that, Mr. Carlton?"
            Well—I was but mortal—beside, every body said it would be such a most mighty
                    powerful smart chance to get such a heap of pigeons! I did not, indeed, go as far as some; for I
                    never expected to find them two feet high, already dead, and, maybe, picked and ready for the
                    skillet. Beside, I wanted to go, and "who knows," says I to
                    myself, "If there mightn't be some truth in the account after all."
                    Hence, after five minutes cogitation, I hurried down after Clarence and Harwood—but, mark
                    it, reader, I was met by those learned gentlemen, hastening up to
                    Carlton's store, to consult on the same subject! For these persons, living in the edge of
                    the forest, knew well enough that the pigeons were camping, from the thunderings, like the deep and
                    solemn mutter of an earthquake, (although the nearest point of the camp proved nearly three miles
                    distant,) and hence, quite as excited and credulous as we small fry, they were posting up town to
                    join a party:
            
            "Which way? Which way? neighbours!"
            "Coining up to your store,—are you going down to College?"
            "I was—did you hear what Domore and Ned say?"
            "No—but, hark! don't you hear them?"
            "What!—is that the pigeons?"
            "To be sure!—Carlton, won't you go?"
            "That's what I was coming down for—"
            "That's your sort—agreed. Going to take a gun?"
            "No—guess not: all Woodville is out with
                    guns—pistols—rifles—match-locks—and big keys, with
                    touch-holes filed in—let's only take things to carry back birds in."
            "Agreed—they say you can pick a barrel under a tree—what shall we
                    take?"
            "Bags?"
            "Yes—and a long string to tie them by the legs, and carry back on a
                    pole!"
            "Ready now, Carlton?"
            "Yes—yes—yes! let's keep on."
            "Well, stop at my house," said Clarence, "and there we'll fix a
                    bag and some twine, and so lose no time."
            All was done quick as a squirrel's jump. Then guided by the sound, we put out, regardless of
                    a course, and unable to discern objects dubious in the dim light of a waning moon, and partly
                    obscured by clouds. We were in Indian file,—now trotting, now running, and occasionally
                    walking, —here stumbling over logs—there scrambling up and down
                    gullies—then diving into sink-holes—then ripping through briar swamps! The
                    conversation was monosyllabic and suggestive, performed with no little blowing and palpitation, and
                    broken abruptly by exclamation, thus:—
            "Hark!"
            "Ye-e-s!"
            "Like—ooh!—thun-der!—hey I"
            "Ve-ry! Got—bag?"
            "Ooh!—yes! You—ooh!—got—string?"
            "Oho! ouch!—no! he's got it—ooh!"
            "What now? oho! ouch!—bad briars here!" &c.
                    &c.
            In about two miles, even this laconic dialect was difficult to use, being lost in the roar of
                    pigeon-thunder—mingling with which was heard, however, the artillery, the outcries and
                    shouts of our gallant village troops!
            
            "Yes! hark!—they're pelting away! Come! come on! Get
                    that bag ready—pull out those strings—hurraw!"
            
            And yet it was curious—we had come to no outposts! —had caught no drowsy
                    sentinel pigeons on their roosts! What on earth made the thunder so late at night? How could
                    pigeons, packed on one another, and with heads comfortably stuck under wings, keep up such an awful
                    noise? Was it snoring? Ay! maybe it was the noise of pigeons tumbling down, and trees
                    breaking—
            Hark! a storm rushes this way! How sudden the moon is hid! Is that a cloud? Yes, reader, it was a
                    storm—but of pigeons rushing on countless wings! It was a cloud—but of
                    careering and feathered squadrons! The moon was hid—and by a world of startled birds!
            In vain our search that night for pigeon bearing trees! In vain our bag and three strings! We might
                    have filled a bolster with feathers; but no bird living or dead burdened either our sack or lines!
                    The myriad hosts for miles and miles were on their wings! and guns were flashing away in hopeless
                    vengeance and idle wrath! Neither shot nor ball could reach that world of wild fowl safe mid the
                    free air of Heaven! Pitiful our bag and string!—pitiful our very selves! and all
                    Woodville gazing from the dark depths of the woods upward on that boundless canopy of sounding,
                    black, and rushing pinions!
            To remain was worse than useless—it was hazardous; at every flash of gunpowder, showers of
                    shot foreign and domestic fell like hail on the leaves around us—and we fancied rifles
                    cracked as if speeding balls, and that we heard the peculiar whistling of their death dealing music!
                    And we turned to go home. But the way thither had now become a question. That we were about three
                    miles distant was probable; yet after turnings and windings in the dark, our puzzle was no wonder.
                    Besides the moon, as if unable to penetrate the cloud of wings, had never re-appeared; and clouds of
                    another kind had succeeded, whence heavy and frequent raindrops now pattered on us!
            At last we decided our course by instinct; in which we satisfactorily learned that human instinct is
                    inferior to brute: for after a trot of ten minutes, sudden torchlights crossed our way at right
                    angles, and a voice from one carrier thus hailed—
            
            "Hilloo! whar're you a travellin?"
            "To Woodville—whose that?"
            "To Woodville!—bust my rifle if you ain't a goin a powerful strate
                    course on it—"
            "Why Ned, is that you?"
            "That's the very feller; why Mr. Carltin if you keep that course, you'll
                    reach the licks about sun-up!—why this here's the way—foller our
                    trail."
            "Ha! ha! Ned, I thought I was a better woodsman—keep a-head, we'll
                    follow."
            "Well, you're puttee smart in the day-light, Mr. Carltin—but
                    it's raythur more hardish to strike the course of a dark night."
            "Where's Domore, Ned?"
            "Foller'd arter the d—pigins—"
            "Don't swear, Ned, the preacher's here. Did you get any?"
            "Git any! Nobody didn't git none. Bust my rifle if this ain't a judjmint
                    on the settlemint for firing shot guns and shot out a rifles!"
            "I think myself, Ned, shot guns had something to do in scaring the birds so. But how far yet
                    to Woodville?"
            "Well, I can't jist about say sartinly—it taint more nor four miles no
                    how—'spose we a sorter stop talking—it hinders runnin; and here goes
                    for a fresh start."
            And start fresh did Ned and his party, and at a rate extremely prejudicial to easy conversation, and
                    giving us genteel folks work enough to keep in sight of the torches. In little more than an hour,
                    however, we stood in the edge of the clearings; when our course being pointed out by Ned, the
                    parties separated, and I went with Harwood and Clarence to take supper at the house of the
                    latter,—a supper ready to greet our arrival with a bag and string of pigeons!
            I acknowledge it—this is a very tame and spiritless end of our pigeon tale—a
                    very bad dove-tailing! Yet is it as natural as our flat and unprofitable feelings, when we sat down
                    about twelve o'clock that night at Clarence's to an overdone, burnt up, tasteless
                    supper—our poetry and romance all flown away with the pigeons, and washed out by the
                    rain!  However, we may add, that many followed the pigeons all
                    night; and once or twice small flocks were found settled on trees where about one hundred in all
                    were killed—but the grand body was never overtaken. It continued, perhaps, on the wing
                    till a favourite roosting place some hundred miles south was reached, that being their direction.
                    Domore got back at eight o'clock next morning, having done twenty-five miles and obtained
                    twenty-two pigeons, with his hand, however, much injured by the recoil or bursting of his horse
                    pistol. Hence shot guns were in worse odour than ever and no light curses heaped on "all
                    sich spiteful bird skerers and them what made and shot em!"
            Domore, indeed, soon recovered: when his first rifleshot afterward was so melancholy in its
                    consequence, as to make him abstain from his favourite weapon and hunting for many months. With that
                    account we conclude this chapter.
            He went out several hours before day-break and lay in wait at a salt-lick for a deer. Here he waited
                    patiently till the dawn; and then opposite his station his keen eyes discovered in the bushes the
                    cautious approach of an animal, and soon he caught a glimpse of its body. To flash his eye through
                    the sights and to touch the trigger was instinctive—and then came the cry not of a
                    wounded deer or bear, but of human agony! Domore flew to the spot; and what was his horror there to
                    see bleeding on the ground and apparently dying, poor Jesse Hardy, his intimate friend, and the
                    honest fellow who had been with us in the cave!
            He, too, had come to watch the lick; and had Domore been later than Hardy, their fates, perhaps, had
                    been reversed! Generally great precaution is employed by our hunters to prevent such mishaps, yet
                    sometimes with all, they do occur. Happily in the present case the wound, though severe, was not
                    mortal, and Hardy in a few minutes so recovered as to speak; when Domore, after doing what seemed
                    proper, left his friend for fifteen minutes, and then was again on the spot with the assistance of a
                    neighbouring family. The wounded man was carefully removed to the cabin; and Domore mounting a horse
                    darted away full speed for Dr. Sylvan. The Doctor came; and being a skilful surgeon, as he  had in that capacity served in the war a regiment of mounted
                    riflemen, he used the best means of cure; and in two months, by the divine favour, poor Jess was
                    able to return to his domestic duties. During this confinement Domore did all he could for his
                    friend, and also for the widow-mother, supplying as far as possible the place of a son; and although
                    after Jess recovered, Domore hunted again with his rifle, he never again, while we were in the
                    Purchase, went out to watch a lick.
         
         
         
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana
            
                    Edited by J. Robert Constantine
                    ∗
                
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     played a very significant role in the cultural as well as in the political development
                    of Indiana during the territorial era. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company, founded in 1806, was an important manifestation of that cultural life.
                    An incorporated company supported by financial contributions, it gradually gained in the number and
                    variety of its holdings as well as in membership despite the impact of the War of 1812 and the loss
                    of the territorial capital to Corydon in 1813. These setbacks were but a temporary pause in the
                    company's development. Following the war the library continued to grow. It recruited a
                    number of men as members who had graduated from eastern colleges and then joined in the westward
                    migration. The background and abilities of such men as Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Jonathan Doty, and John Law made them especially valuable additions to the
                    company's roster. Barely had the revitalization gotten underway, however, when it was once
                    more checked—this time by the Panic of 1819. The effects of the depression are reflected
                    in the minutes. Book purchases declined, new memberships lagged, and delinquencies for nonpayment of
                    annual dues and fines increased. Nevertheless, as indicated in the following segment of the minutes,
                    by the end of 1823 the library had 1,080 volumes valued at $2,300 as against the 426
                    volumes valued at less than $800 in 1813.
            
               
                  ∗ J. Robert Constantine is professor of history at Indiana
                        State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . The minutes of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company which follow are reproduced from a photocopy of the original minute
                        book. Minutes for the period 1806–1817 appeared in J. Robert Constantine (ed.),
                        "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (December, 1965), 305–89. See this source,
                        pages 305–20, for a summary account of the company from its establishment to its
                        dissolution in 1883.
            
            
            Monday Feby. 3rd 18171
            
            Anual Meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Co. Present: B. Parke, Prest.; Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , David M. Hale, Nathl. 
                        Huntington
                    , Saml. Parr, Saml. Dillworth, Saml. T. Scott, Saml. Emison, E. McNamee, Albert Badolet,
                    V. J. Bradley, Geo. R. C. Sullivan, Jones & Dubois by Geo. R. C. Sullivan, Elihu Stout by
                    Geo. R. C. Sullivan, Charles Smith—Librarian, Jonan. Dotty, Jeremiah Wood admrs. [?] of
                    Charles Hinckly by Geo. R. C. Sullivan, John D. Hay, Robt. Buntin by Geo. R. C. Sullivan 2 Shares.
            On Motion made & seconded Resolved, that the annual contributions on the share owned by the
                    late Charles Hinckly be from this time suspended for the term of Ten Years unless the Executors of
                    the said Charles Hinckly shall sooner think proper to allow his child to take books from the
                    Library—at which time, the contributions shall recommence.
            On Motion made & seconded Resolv'd that the annuel contributions on the share owned
                    by the late Henry Vanderburgh be from this time suspended, for the term of Ten Years, unless the
                    Executors of the said Henry Vanderburgh shall sooner think proper to allow his children to take
                    books from the Library—at which time the contributions shall recommence, provided that
                    this resolution shall only take effect after all arrearages on said share is paid.
            
               
                  1 In editing these minutes every effort has been made to reproduce
                        faithfully the spelling and capitalization of the handwritten document. The spacing of the
                        original minutes has been somewhat modified and standardized. For example, space limitations
                        have prompted the listing of members present at a meeting, results of elections, and books
                        recommended for purchase in series instead of the columns which usually appear in the minutes.
                        Paragraphs have been indented consistently even though in the document many were not indented.
                        Frequently items of business—especially motions and resolutions—were
                        recorded on separate successively indented lines; these have been reproduced in standard
                        paragraph form. The openings and closings of minutes and locations of headings also have been
                        standardized. Punctuation has been reproduced as it appeared with the following exceptions:
                        periods have been added where necessary at the ends of paragraphs, closings of minutes, and
                        after abbreviations and initials; commas and semicolons have been added when columns of names
                        are reproduced in series; a colon has been added after the word "present" when
                        it preceeds a list of members attending a meeting, after the word "viz." when
                        it introduces a series, and occasionally where it clarifies the intent of the secretary; decimal
                        points have been inserted where they were missing in prices; and hyphens have been used
                        consistently between inclusive numbers in lists of numbered books. Flourishes have been omitted
                        or translated as periods; underlining of signatures, dates, and the like has been considered a
                        flourish except where it clearly indicates italics. Raised letters have brought down to the
                        line. Unintentional repetitions of words or phrases have been omitted, as have marks in the
                        margins and words, phrases, or subtotals used in making transitions from one page to the next in
                        the original minutes. No attempt has been made to give biographical data on individuals whose
                        names appear in these minutes.
            
            
            On Motion made & seconded Resolved That Robert Baird be released from the balance now due by
                    him to the Library & that the Librarian close his account accordingly.
            The Share holders then proceeded to the election of officers for the ensuing Year, when upon counting
                    the ballots, it appeared that the following persons were duly elected Viz.: Benjamin Parke,
                    president; John Baddollet, Isaack 
                        Blackford
                    , Elias McNamee, Saml. T. Scott, & Jacob Kuykendall, Directors; Charles Smith,
                    Librarian.
            It was then moved & seconded that the share of Daniel Sullivan be forfeited—and
                    upon some discussion takeing place thereon, the further consideration thereof was postponed till the
                    next meeting, and then the meeting
            adjourned.
            Saturday Feby. 8th 1817
            Special meeting of the president & Directors Present: B. Parke, prest.; John Badollet, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .
            Ordered that Wm. P. Bennett have credit with the Librarian for Five dollars for Martens Law of
                    Nations @ one dollar Gleanings on Husbandry @ One dollar & fifty cents Farmers assistant one
                    dollar & fifty cents Volneys ruins one dollar.
            Ordered that the following books be appraised as follows to wit: 
                  
                     599–601
                     Phillip 2d & 3rd of 
                                    Spain
                                
                     
                     $12.
                  
                  
                     602–4
                     Female Biography
                     9.
                  
                  
                     605–6
                     Biglands History of 
                                    England
                                
                     
                     7.50
                  
                  
                     607
                     Duncans Cicero
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     608
                     Gleanings from Husbandry
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     609
                     Farmers assistant
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     610
                     Martens Law of Nations
                     2.00
                  
                  
                     611
                     Volneys Ruins
                     1.50
                  
               
            
            Ordered that Nathl. Ewing be fined for injury done to No. 301 taken out on his share fifty cents.
            Adjourned.
            [March 22, 1817]
            Special Meeting of the President and Directors March 22nd 1817. Present: B. Parke, prest.; Badollet, 
                        Blackford
                    , Scott, McNamee, & Kuykendall.
            No. 613
            Benjamin Parke presented the Library with a copy of the Journal of the proceedings of the Convention,
                    and of the Constitution of the  State of
                    Indiana.—which was received.
            Ordered that the same be appraised at one dollar & twenty five cents.
            Ordered that the Librarian purchase Gruelius' [?] & Professor Pallas' works
                    the title is not known, but the subject is the relation of scientific travels through European
                    & Asiatic Russia.
            Ordered That the Librarian, be authorised to purchase Books on a credit to the amount of one hundred
                    Dollars—whether at three, six, or nine months is left to his own discretion.
            Adjourned.
            N.B. Omited in the entry of the last days proceedings; Monroes vindication of his conduct Whilst
                    Minister of the U. States at 
                        France
                     & Johnson's Dictionary large edition.
            July 7. 1817
            Special meeting of the Directors Present: Parke; Badollet, 
                        Blackford
                    , McNamee.
            adjourned till Saturday next at 4 oClock. P. M.
            [July 12, 1817]
            Special Meeting of the President & Directors—by adjournment.
            July 12. 1817
            Present: Parke; Badollet, 
                        Blackford
                    , Kuykendall, & Scott.
            The Librarian produced the following books, purchased for the Library, under the order the Directors,
                    Viz.:
            
               
                  Bozmans 
                                Maryland
                            
                  
                  $2.08
               
               
                  Johnsons Dictionary
                  2.95
               
               
                  Artists Manuel
                  7.50
               
               
                  Popular tales
                  2.08
               
               
                  Erskines Speeches
                  5.84
               
               
                  Adams Lecturs
                  4.16
               
               
                  Smarts Horace
                  1.67
               
               
                  Rise & Progress
                  1.04
               
               
                  Humes Essays
                  7.25
               
               
                  Moshiems Church History
                  12.50
               
               
                  Edwards life
                  0.83
               
               
                  Savarys 
                                Greece
                            
                  
                  3.50
               
               
                  Soulavies Memoirs of Louis 16th
                  18.00
               
               
               
                  History of Chili
                  4.16
               
               
                  Beloes Herodotus
                  12.50
               
               
                  Cootes Modern Europe
                  2.95
               
               
                  Oddy on Commerce
                  4.17
               
               
                  Swifts Works
                  25.00
               
               
                  Murphys Tacitus
                  20.00
               
               
                  Edwards West Indies, with Atlass
                  12.50
               
               
                  Life of Nelson
                  1.04
               
               
                  Prince Eugene
                  1.04
               
               
                  Naval History of the U. S.
                  2.08
               
               
                  Park's last travels
                  2.50
               
               
                  Latours History of the war
                  4.17
               
               
                  Salmagundi
                  2.75
               
               
                  Plinys letters
                  2.30
               
               
                  Manners & customs
                  2.50
               
               
                  Niles Register
                  21.00
               
               
                  Burks Works
                  15.63
               
            
            Ordered that the above books be received and by the Librarian placed in the Library.
            ordered that the Librarian be allowed in his account current with the Library Two hundred &
                    five Dollars & sixty nine cents, for the cost above enumerated books.
            ordered that the Librarian be allowed in his account current with the Library twenty four Dollars for
                    the costs of carriage on the above mentioned books.
            ordered that the above said books be appraised as follows Viz.:
            
               
                  612
                  Bozmans 
                                Maryland
                            
                  
                  2.50
               
               
                  614–15
                  Artists Manuel
                  9.00
               
               
                  616–17
                  Popular tales
                  2.50
               
               
                  618–19
                  Erskines Speeches
                  7.50
               
               
                  620–21
                  Adams Lectures
                  5.00
               
               
                  622–23
                  Smarts Horace
                  2.00
               
               
                  624
                  Rise and Progress
                  1.25
               
               
                  625–6
                  Humes Essays
                  9.00
               
               
                  627–32
                  Moshiems Church History
                  15.00
               
               
                  633
                  Edwards life
                  1.00
               
               
                  634
                  Savarys 
                                Greece
                            
                  
                  4.25
               
               
                  635–40
                  Soulavies Memoirs of Louis 16th
                  22.50
               
               
                  641–42
                  History of Chili
                  5.00
               
               
                  643–46
                  Beloes Herodotus
                  15.00
               
               
                  647
                  Cootes Modern Europe
                  3.50
               
               
                  648–9
                  Oddey on Commerce
                  5.00
               
               
                  650–73
                  Swifts Works
                  30.00
               
               
                  674–9
                  Murphys Tacitus
                  25.00
               
               
                  680–3
                  Edwards West Indies, with Atlass
                  16.00
               
               
                  684
                  Life of Nelson
                  1.50
               
               
                  685
                  Prince Eugene
                  1.50
               
               
                  686–7
                  Naval History of the U. S.
                  2.50
               
               
               
                  688
                  Park's last travels
                  3.50
               
               
                  689
                  Latours History of the War
                  5.00
               
               
                  690–1
                  Salmagundi
                  3.50
               
               
                  692–3
                  Plinys Letters
                  3.50
               
               
                  694–5
                  Manners & customs
                  3.50
               
               
                  584–90
                  Niles Register
                  26.00
               
               
                  696–701
                  Burks Works
                  20.00
               
            
            Ordered that the Librarian be authorised to sell Johnsons Dictionary, at Two Dollars and fifty cents,
                    for the benefit of the Library.
            Ordered that the Librarian have a credit of Two Dollars for a Book purchased by him to register the
                    delivery of books to, & return of the same from Subscribers.
            Ordered that the President call a Special Meeting of the Shareholders on Saturday the 2nd August
                    next, at 3 oClock P.M. at Jones Inn.
            Ordered that the Librarian deliver no books, containing Maps or engravings, to Shareholders, untill
                    further orders from the Directors or the Shareholders.
            Ordered, that as a tribute of respect to William C. Vandeventer, for his attention to the Library,
                    the Librarian permit him to subscribe for two Shares in the Library, which the Directors hereby
                    present to him.
            adjourned.
            August 2nd 1817
            Special meeting of the Share holders—Present: Parke; Scott, Hay, McCall, Ewing, P. Jones,
                    Taylor, 
                        Blackford
                    , Smith, T. Dubois, Sullivan, G. W. Johnston.
            There not being a quorum—Adjourned.
            August 2. 1817
            Monthly meeting of the Directors Present: Parke; Scott, 
                        Blackford
                    .
            adjourned, till Monday next at 5 oClock P. M. Monday August 4. 1817
            Adjourned meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Scott, 
                        Blackford
                    .
            ordered, That the order of the Board, prohibiting the Librarian from delivering books, containing
                    maps, to Shareholders, entered into on the 12th ult. be and is hereby rescinded.
            adjourned.
            
            Monday Feby. 3rd 1818
            Anual Meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Co. Prensent [sic]: B. Parke, presdt.; A. F. Snapp, R.
                    Buntin, J. B. Mccall, G. W. Johnston, E. Boudinot, Wm. E. Breading, E. McNamee, E. Stout, A.
                    Badollet, John Law, I. Blackford, C. Smith, Wm. Lindsay, Wm. C. Vandeventor by his Proxy C. Smith
                    Librarian, N. Huntington, A. Wollcot (Directors.).
            Ordered, that the arears due the Library from the Estate of the late Parmenus Beckes deceased, from
                    the time of his death to the present time be released.
            Ordered that the Words, One hundred, in the first Article of the Constitution of
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Compy. be erased & in lieu thereof insert the Words, One
                        hundred & fifty.
            
            The Share holders then went into an election of officers of the Library for the ensuing Year when it
                    appeared that, Benjamin Parke was elected President. Charles Smith, Librarian, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     John Badollet Alexander Wolcot Elias McNamee and Samuel T. Scott Directors.
            Adjourned.
            Feby. 7th 1818
            Stated meeting of the President and Directors Present: B. Parke, prest.; J. Badollet, Alex. Wolcot,
                    I. Blackford, Directors; C. Smith, Librarian.
            Ordered that the Librarian pay to the Exors. of John Johnson decd. Thirty five dollars for the
                    American State Papers in 10 Vols. this day bot. of them.
            Ordered that the Librarian pay to William Burton Three dollars for Military Mentor, in 2 Vols. this
                    day Bot. of him.
            Ordered that the Librarian allow Mark Barnet a credit of one dollar for Mahomets Travels No. 156
                    & 7. which Books formerly belonged to the Library & was Forfeited by Mr. Barnet.
            William Jones Esqr. presented the Library with Smiths Sermons in 2 Vols. which was received.
            Appraisement of the above Books Viz.:
            
               
                  American State Papers
                  $45.00
               
               
                  Military Mentor
                  3.00
               
               
                  Mahomets Travels
                  1.50
               
               
                  Smiths Sermons
                  3.00
               
            
            Adjourned untill Tuesday the 10th Inst. at 3 Oclock P.M.
            
            Feby. 10th 1818
            Special meeting of the president and Directors, present: Parke, presdt.; Badollet, Wolcot, McNamee, 
                        Blackford
                    , Scott.
            Ordered that the following books be bought for the Library Viz.: Thucydides by Smith; Polybius [by]
                    Hampton; Demosthenes [by] Leland; Lucian by Franklin or Carr; Longinus—by Smith;
                    Hesiod—[by] Cooke; Livy—by Hayes Baker or Lucan [by] Rowe;
                    Ovid—[by] Davidson Garth or Clarke; Sallust [by] Gordon; Cesar [by] Bladon;
                    Cicero's Epistles by Melmoth; Claytons life of Alexander the Great; Giffords History of 
                        France
                    ; Campbells History of 
                        Virginia
                    ; Rush's Essays on Moral Subjects; Maurices Antiquities; Ellicotts Journal;
                    Draytons View of S. Carolina; Don Ulloa; Addisons Works by Tickle; Universal History—by
                    Ramsay; Hazards State Papers; Johnsons Dictionary large Edition; Barton on the Origin of the Tribes
                    and Nations of N. America; Barton on the freedom of Navigation and Maritime Commerce; Persian Tales
                    by Montesquieu; Voyage to Demerary; Gurneys system of short hand Writing by T. Sergeant; Birkbecks
                    Journey through 
                        France
                    ; Memoirs of the Bastile; Correspondence of Louis the 16 by H. M. Williams; Memoirs of
                    Gui Jolli Secy. Cardinal De Retz; Account of 
                        Louisiana
                     from Documents in the Dept. of State & Treasury—[and] Appendix to
                    Do.; Bartons Essays on the fascinating influence of Serpents; 
                        Newton
                     on Prophesies; Chateaubriands Beauties of Christianity Tra[n]slated by Rett; Biglands
                    Geographical & Historical View of the World; The Works of Doctor Saml. Johnson;
                    Chateaubriands Travels in 
                        Egypt
                     &c.; The influence of Literature upon society by Madame Steel Holstien; Heriots
                    Travels through the Canadas; Junius—with Wilke's confidential correspondence,
                    letters to Woodfall—fac Semilies [?] &c.; Memoirs of the late Genl. Charles Lee;
                    Narrative of the Indian Wars in N. England by Wm. Hubbard; Chalmers Ed. of the Tatler; Do. [edition]
                    Rambler; Do. [edition] Guardian; Buchanans Christian Researches in Asia; Paleys Natural Theology;
                    Bradfords Evangelical History; Bucks—Theological Dictionary; Gilleis Memoirs of
                    Whitfield; Mayos View of ancient Geography with atlas; Bolingbrookes Works; Johnson's tour
                    to the Hebrides; American Remembrances; Burgh's dignity of human Nature; Barrows travels in 
                        China
                    ; Abbe Clavigero History of 
                        Mexico
                    ; Forsyth on the culture of fruit trees; Fergusons History of 
                        Rome
                    ; Blackwells history  of Augustus; Gallatin on
                    Finance; Grandpre's voyage to the Indian Ocean; Hamiltons Works; Humbolts travels in South
                    America; Foxs' James the 2nd; Kaimes Elements of Criticism; Life of Chatham; Life of Fox;
                    Burks life by Bissitt; Marshal on Gardening; Memoirs of Doctor Priestley; Moors Anacreon; Pelew
                    Islands; Trumbulls History of the U. States; Alcoroni; 
                        Boston
                    's Body of Divinity; Memoirs of the Philada. agricultural Society;
                    Maddox's 
                        Missouri
                    ; Coopers Justinian; Burlamaques Natural Law; Sir R. Wilsons Sketch of the Military and
                    Political Power of Russia—1817; Sampsons Memoirs; Wirts Life of Patrick Henry; Niles
                    Register subsequent to Feb. 25th 1815; Athenian Letters; Letters to Voltaire; Inchbald's
                    British Theatre; The Life of Genl. Marion by M. L. Weams; Davy's elements of Chemical
                    Philosophy; Accum's Analysis; Spirit of Laws by Montesquieu; Tooke's Diversions of
                    Purley; Richerand's Physiology translated by De Lys; Edinburgh Review; Aikin's
                    Letters to a Young lady; 
                        Germany
                     by Madame De Stael; 
                        France
                     by Lady Morgan; Eustace's 
                        Italy
                    ; Sismondi's Literature of the South; Ramseys American revolution, last
                    Edition; Riley's Narative; Espriella's Letters from 
                        England
                    ; Sterne's Works; Boswells life of Johnson; Knickerbocker's 
                        New York
                    ; Ariosto by Hoole; Poetical Works of Lord Byron; Poetical Works of Thos. 
                        Campbell
                    ; Poetical Works of Robt. Southey; Pleasure's of Memory & other Poems
                    by S. Rogans [?]; Belinda by Miss Edgeworth; Patronage by Miss Edgeworth; Tales of Fashionable life
                    by Miss Edgeworth; Traits of Nature by Miss Burney; Thadeus of 
                        Warsaw
                     by Miss Porter; Waverly; Guy Manering; Colden's Life of 
                        Fulton
                    ; Inchiquin's Letters; Pitkin's Statistics; Silliman's
                    Journal; Stedman's 
                        Surinam
                    ; Southeys History of 
                        Brazil
                    ; Goldsmiths Citizen of the World.
            Adjourned.
            Feby. 1819
            Anual Meeting of the share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Co. Present: B. Parke, presdt.; S. T. Scott, D. M. Hale, G. R. C. Sullivan, E.
                    Boudinott, A. Badollet, N. Huntington, Saml. Parr, R. P. Price, Wm. C. Vandeventer, Geo. Ewing,
                    Danl. Smith, J. Dotty, Saml. Hill, Genl. W. Johnston by his proxy G. Lindsay, Wm. Jones for Jones
                    & Dubois, Wm. Lindsay, J. B. Mccall, I. Blackford, N. Ewing, S. Emison by his proxy D.
                    Smith, John Law, John Mcdonald, E. McNamee. & Charles Smith, Librarian.
            
            The Share holders then proceeded to the election of officers of the Library, when upon counting the
                    ballots, it appeared that the following persons were duly elected, Viz. Benjamin Park, president,
                    John Badollet N. Ewing, Saml. T. Scott, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , and Elias Mcnamee Directors. Charles Smith Librarian.
            On motion made & seconded, That the Librarian be authorized & directed to permit any
                    person takeing a work from the Library to have the privilege of takeing the atlas accompanying the
                    same, with the first Vollum; Provided however that the atlas shall be kept only two weaks &
                    should the same be lost, the work which it accompanies shall be paid for by the person takeing out
                    the same, & if injured, the value of the work itself shall be taken into consideration in
                    determining the injury. Which motion passed in the negative.
            Adjourned.
            [May 21, 1819]
            Special Meeting of President & Directors May 21st 1819 Present: B. Parke; J. Badollet, S. T.
                    Scott, E. McName, & N. Ewing.
            The Librarian Produced the following works, at the Prices anexed, which he had Purchased under an
                    order from the Board Viz.
            (Insert the catalogue furnished librarian By Mr. Hay Except Davis's Chemical philosophy
                    Viz.:)
            
               
                  Johnsons Works
                  $18.00
               
               
                  Tatler
                  6.25
               
               
                  Researches in Asia
                  1.25
               
               
                  Marshall on Gardening
                  2.00
               
               
                  Sterns Works
                  5.00
               
               
                  Espriellas letters
                  2.00
               
               
                  Pleasures of Hope
                  1.00
               
               
                  Campbells Poems
                  .87 1/2
               
               
                  Akins letters
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                     
                                Newton
                             on Prophecies
                  3.75
               
               
                  Paleys Theology
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  Gurneys Short hand
                  1.50
               
               
                  Evangelical history
                  1.25
               
               
                  Guy Mannering
                  2.25
               
               
                  Granpreys Voyages
                  1.00
               
               
                  Pelew Islands
                  .75
               
               
               
                  Life of Marrion
                  1.00
               
               
                  Moor's Anacreon
                  1.50
               
               
                  Life of Whitefield
                  1.00
               
               
                  Citizen of the World
                  2.00
               
               
                  Burghs Dignity
                  2.50
               
               
                  Guardian
                  3.75
               
               
                  Life of Genl. Lee
                  1.12 1/2
               
               
                  Addison's Works
                  9.00
               
               
                  
                            
                                Orlando
                            
                        
                  7.50
               
               
                  Rambler
                  5.25
               
               
                  Belinda
                  2.50
               
               
                  Waverley
                  2.50
               
               
                  Trumbulls America
                  2.75
               
               
                  Forsythe on fruit Trees
                  2.00
               
               
                  Rileys Narative
                  3.00
               
               
                  Barrows Travels
                  3.00
               
               
                  Bucks Dictionary
                  3.50
               
               
                  Rushes Essays
                  2.00
               
               
                  Sampsons Memoirs
                  3.00
               
               
                  Fergusons Rome
                  7.50
               
               
                  Mayo's Geography & Atlas
                  6.50
               
               
                  Browns Body of Divinity
                  3.50
               
               
                  Humbolts Travels
                  3.00
               
               
                  American Revolution
                  4.50
               
               
                  Ellicotts Journal
                  5.00
               
               
                  Smiths Thucidides
                  6.75
               
               
                  Cardinal De Retz
                  10.00
               
               
                  Spirit of the law
                  5.00
               
               
                  Pitkins Statistical View
                  4.00
               
               
                  Hamiltons Works
                  9.00
               
               
                  Kaims Elements
                  5.50
               
               
                  
                     
                                Philadelphia
                             Agriculturial Society
                  12.00
               
               
                  Diversion of Purley
                  6.00
               
               
                  Melmoths Cicero
                  9.00
               
               
                  Jesuits letters
                  1.25
               
               
                  Life of 
                                Fulton
                            
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  Freedom of Navigation
                  2.50
               
               
                  Sketches of Russia
                  2.00
               
               
                  Voyage to Demirara
                  2.00
               
               
                  Correspondence of Lewis the 16th
                  8.00
               
               
                  
                     
                                France
                             By lady Morgan
                  3.00
               
               
                  Birkbecks 
                                France
                            
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  Travels in Canida
                  1.25
               
               
                  Memoirs of Dr. Priestley
                  5.00
               
               
                  Niles Weekley Register
                  25.50
               
               
                  Analysis of Minerals
                  1.25
               
               
                  Traits of Nature
                  2.50
               
               
                  Influence of Literature
                  2.50
               
               
                  Lord Byrons Poems
                  5.50
               
               
                  Bollingbrooks Works
                  15.00
               
               
               
                  Richerand's Physiology
                  4.00
               
               
                  Memiors of Fox
                  2.25
               
               
                  Chateaubrians Travels
                  1.50
               
               
                  Thaddeus of 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  Wirts life of Patrick Henry
                  2.50
               
               
                  Coopers Justinian
                  4.00
               
            
            Ordered that the Librarian have a credit on account of the Above Books of $254.75.
            Ordered that the appraised Value of the Books above enumerated be as follows Viz.:
            
               
                  716–27
                  Johnsons Works
                  24.00
               
               
                  728–32
                  Tatler
                  7.75
               
               
                  733
                  Researches in Asia
                  1.50
               
               
                  734–35
                  Marshal on gardening
                  2.50
               
               
                  736–40
                  Sterns Works
                  6.25
               
               
                  742–43
                  Esprielles
                  2.50
               
               
                  744
                  Pleasures of Hope & Memory
                  1.25
               
               
                  747
                  Campbells Poems
                  1.00
               
               
                  748
                  Akins letters
                  1.25
               
               
                  741
                  Gurneys Short hand
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  745–46
                  Guy Mannering
                  2.81
               
               
                  749–51
                  
                     
                                Newton
                             on Prophecys
                  4.70
               
               
                  752
                  Paleys Theology
                  1.50
               
               
                  753
                  Campbells 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  754
                  Evangelical History
                  1.57
               
               
                  755
                  Grandpres Voyage
                  1.25
               
               
                  756
                  Pelew Islands
                  1.00
               
               
                  757
                  Life of Marrion
                  1.25
               
               
                  758–59
                  Moors Anacreon
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  760
                  Life of Whitefield
                  1.25
               
               
                  761–62
                  Citizen of the World
                  2.50
               
               
                  763–64
                  Burghs Dignity of Human Nature
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  765–67
                  Guardian
                  4.69
               
               
                  768
                  Life of Gel. Lee
                  1.40
               
               
                  769–74
                  Adisons Works
                  11.25
               
               
                  775–80
                  
                     
                                Orlando
                             Furioso
                  9.37 1/2
               
               
                  781–84
                  Rambler
                  6.56 1/2
               
               
                  785–86
                  Belinda
                  8.12 1/2
               
               
                  787–88
                  Waverly
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  789
                  Trumbulls America
                  3.43 3/4
               
               
                  790
                  Forsyth on Fruit Trees
                  2.50
               
               
                  791
                  Rileys Naritive
                  3.75
               
               
                  792
                  Barrows Travels in 
                                China
                            
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  793
                  Bucks Theological Dictionary
                  4.37 1/2
               
               
                  794
                  Rush's Essays
                  2.50
               
               
                  795
                  Sampsons Memoirs
                  3.75
               
               
                  796–98
                  Fergusons Rome
                  9.37 1/2
               
               
                  799
                  Mayos Ancient Geography
                  8.12 1/2
               
               
               
                  800
                  Browns Body of Divinity
                  4.37 1/2
               
               
                  801
                  Humbolts Travels
                  3.75
               
               
                  802–3
                  American Eevolution
                  5.75
               
               
                  804–5
                  Smiths Thucydides
                  8.43 3/4
               
               
                  806–8
                  Cardinal De Retz
                  12.50
               
               
                  809–10
                  Spirit of Laws
                  6.25
               
               
                  811–13
                  Hamiltons Works
                  11.25
               
               
                  814
                  Pitkins Statistical View
                  5.00
               
               
                  815–16
                  Kaimes Elements
                  6.87 1/2
               
               
                  817–20
                  Memoirs of Philad. Agricultural Society
                  15.00
               
               
                  821–22
                  Diversions of Purley
                  7.50
               
               
                  823–25
                  Melmoths Cicero
                  11.25
               
               
                  826
                  Jesuits letters
                  1.56 1/4
               
               
                  827
                  Life of 
                                Fulton
                            
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  828
                  Freedom of Navigation
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  829–31
                  Correspondence of Lewis the 16th
                  10.00
               
               
                  832
                  Voyage to Demirara
                  2.50
               
               
                  833–34
                  
                     
                                France
                             by Lady Morgan
                  3.75
               
               
                  835
                  Travels in Canida's
                  1. 56 1/2
               
               
                  836
                  Sketches of Russia
                  2.50
               
               
                  837–38
                  Memoirs of Dr. Priestly
                  6.25
               
               
                  839
                  Ellicotts Journal
                  6.25
               
               
                  840–46
                  Continuation of Niles Register
                  31.25
               
               
                  847
                  Analysis of Minerals
                  1.62 1/2
               
               
                  848–49
                  Traits of Nature
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  850–51
                  Influence of Litterature
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  852–54
                  Lord Byrons Poems
                  6.87 1/2
               
               
                  855–59
                  Bolingbrokes Works
                  18.75
               
               
                  860
                  Davys Chemical Philosophy
               
               
                  861
                  Richerands Physiology
                  5.00
               
               
                  862
                  Memoirs of Fox
                  2.81 1/4
               
               
                  863
                  Chateaubriands Travels
                  1.87 1/2
               
               
                  864–65
                  Thadeus of 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  866
                  Wirts Life of Patrick Henry
                  3.12 1/2
               
               
                  867
                  Coopers Justinian
                  5.00
               
               
                  868
                  Birkbecks 
                                France
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
            
            Ordered That the Librarian Procure a printed Catalgue of Such books as have been purchased Subsequent
                    to No. 538 in Such form as to be attached to the Constitution and Catalogue already in Print.
            Adjourned.
            [December 1, 1819]
            Special Meeting of the President & Directors Wendnesday Decr. 1st 1819 Present: B. Parke; N.
                    Ewing, E. McName, & J. Badollet.
            Ordered that the Librarian purchase of Mrs. Gorman the following Books at the prices annexed Viz.:
            
            
               
                  Youngs 
                                Ireland
                            
                  
                  2 Vols.
                  $5.00
               
               
                  Preceptor
                  2 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  Littletons Henry 2nd
                  4 "
                  8.00
               
               
                  Smiths Laboratory
                  2 "
                  5.00
               
               
                  Voltaires Lewis the 14th
                  2 "
                  5.00
               
               
                  Greys Hudibras
                  2 "
                  4.00
               
               
                  Cecilia
                  3 "
                  3.37 1/2
               
               
                  Camilla
                  3 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  Historical Register
                  3 "
                  6.00
               
               
                  Crutwells Gazetteer
                  1 "
                  8.00
               
               
                  Patriotic Sketches
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Cumings Western Tour
                  1 "
                  1.50
               
               
                  West & Lyttleton
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Evans Sketches
                  1 "
                  1.25
               
               
                  United Irishmen
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  History of the Devil
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Pilgrims Progress
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Molyneux Case of 
                                Ireland
                            
                  
                  1 Vol.
                  1.00
               
               
                  Military Atlas
                  1 "
                  5.00
               
               
                  The Book
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Englands Conversion
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $66.12 1/2
               
            
            Ordered That The books of the Library be classed alpabetically, according to their subject matter,
                    and that an entire catalogue thereof including the Constitution be printed for the use of the
                    Shareholders,—and that John Badollet & B. Parke be a committee for that purpose
                    & that they contract for the printing of one hundred copies of the Catalogue in maner
                    aforesaid.
            Feby. 7th 1820
            Special meeting of the President & Directors present: B. Parke, presdt.; N. Ewing, S. T.
                    Scott.
            Ordered, That the appraised value of the books purchased on 1st December last, be the cost of
                    purchase as entered of that date.
            Ordered, That the Librarian have a credit of $2.25 for the Wanderer—and
                    $6.00 for Browns History of Missions, and further that the appraised value of the said
                    books be the cost of purchase.
            Adjourned.
            
            Feby. 7th 1820
            Anual Meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Compy. Present: B. Parke, presdt.; S. T. Scott, D. Sayre, N. Ewing, M. Tabbs,
                    J. D. Hay, E. Boudinot, J. Dotty, W. C. Vandeventor by his proxy C. Smith, & C. Smith,
                    Librarian.
            On motion, the shareholders proceeded to the election of officers of the Library for the ensuing
                    year, when it appeared that Benjamin Parke was elected President, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Elias McNamee, Nathl. Ewing, Saml. T. Scott & Moses Tabbs were elected
                    Directors, and Charles Smith—Librarian.
            Ordered That the late Robert Baird deed, be released from his arrears due the Library, & that
                    his Share be forfeited.
            Ordered That the late Eward Scull decd, be released from his arrears due the Library, & that
                    his Share be forfeited.
            On Motion of Mr. Nathl. Ewing Ordered, That as a tribute of respect to Augustus S. Campbell, for his
                    attention to the Library, the Librarian permit him to subscribe for one Share in the Library, which
                    the Shareholders hereby present to him.
            Adjourned.
            Feby. 7th 1820
            Special meeting of the Directors Present: B. Parke, Presdt.; N. Ewing, M. Tabbs.
            Ordered That Moses Tabbs be & is hereby appointed as one of the Committee,—Ordered
                    on the 1st Decr. 1819.
            Adjourned.
            [March 11, 1820]
            Special meeting of the directors March the 11th 1820 Present: Parke, President; Tabbs, &
                    Ewing.
            Ordered that the Librarian purchase of Doctor L. S. Shuler the history of the war by Brown at
                    $2. the Spirit of despotism at $1.00 Shultz's travels at
                    2$ and Priestleys Lectures at $3.00 and that the appraised value of the Said
                    books be the prices as above Stated.
            Ordered that the Librarian purchase of F. Dickson Chalmers Discourses at $1.75 and that
                    the appraised Value be the Same price.
            
            
               
                  904–5
                  Browns History of Missions
                  2 Vols.
                  $6.00
               
               
                  906–8
                  The Wanderer or Female
               
               
                  
                  Difficulties
                  3 Vols.
                  2.25
               
               
                  909–10
                  Browns History of the War
                  2 Vols.
                  2.00
               
               
                  911
                  Spirit of Despotism
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  912–13
                  Chalmers Discourses
                  2 "
                  1.75
               
               
                  914
                  Schultz's Travels
                  1 "
                  2.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  Appd. Value
                  $15.00
               
            
            Adjourned.
            March 27th 1820
            Special meeting of the Directors Present: B. Parke, presdt.; N. Ewing, M. Tabbs.
            Ordered that the Librarian purchase of Silvester Spelman, the following Books Viz.:
            
               
                  No.915–18
                  Campbells four Gospels
                  4 Vol.
                  $10.00
               
               
                  919
                  Hobhouse's Letters
                  1 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  920–22
                  Religeous World
                  3 "
                  8.50
               
               
                  923
                  Sandfords U. S. Aborigenies
                  1
                  3.00
               
               
                  924–26
                  Cowpers poems
                  3 "
                  4.00
               
               
                  927
                  Natural Theology
                  1
                  1.25
               
               
                  928
                  Phillips Speeches
                  1
                  1.75
               
               
                  929–30
                  Kirk White
                  2 "
                  2.50
               
               
                  931
                  Freneaus Poems
                  1 "
                  .871/2
               
               
                  932–33
                  Chrysol
                  2 "
                  2.25
               
               
                  934–36
                  Taylors Discourses
                  3 "
                  7.50
               
               
                  937
                  Forsyth's 
                                Italy
                            
                  
                  1
                  3.25
               
               
                  938
                  Murry's Grammar
                  1
                  4.00
               
               
                  939
                  Grattan's Speeches
                  1
                  3.75
               
               
                  940
                  Recollection
                  1
                  3.00
               
               
                  941–43
                  Useful Knwledge
                  3
                  5.00
               
               
                  944
                  
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Farmer
                  1
                  .75
               
               
                  945
                  Lyric Poems
                  1
                  1.00
               
               
                  946
                  Mathews Essays
                  1
                  .75
               
               
                  947–48
                  Charlemangue
                  2
                  2.50
               
               
                  949
                  
                     
                                Montgomery
                            's Poems
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                  Declaration of Independence
                  
                  5.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $74.87 1/2
               
            
            And that the prices above Stated be the appraised Value of the said books.
            Ordered that in as much as the afforsaid books were purchased of Mr. Spelman at a discount of 10 pr.
                    Cent the  Librarian have A Credit with the Library for
                    $67.39 for the purchase of the said books.
            Ordered That the Librarian have a credit of Two dollars for Tales of the Castle & Seventy
                    five Cents for Mcfingal purchased of Mr. Roberts, and the appraised Value of the Same, be of the
                    former, $3, and of the latter, $1.
            
               
                  No. 950–51
                  Tales of the Castle
                  $3.
               
               
                  No. 952
                  Mcfingal
                  $1.
               
            
            Adjorned.
            [April 3, 1820]
            Special meeting of the President & Directors Aprl. 3rd 1820 Present: B. Parke M. Tabbs
                    & N. Ewing.
            Ordered that the Librarian have a credit of forty two dollars & Seventy five cents for a
                    purchase of E. Boudinot of the following Books—Viz.:
            
               
                  No.953–64
                  Nicholson's Encyclopedia
                  $36.00
               
               
                  965–6
                  Tales of my Landlord
                  2.50
               
               
                  967–8
                  
                            
                                Rob Roy
                            
                        
                  1.75
               
               
                  969–70
                  Knight of St. John
                  2.50
               
            
            Ordered that the appraised Value of the Said books be the prices as above Stated. A. S. C.2
            
            Adjourned.
            [Undated]
            Specal Meeting of the President & Directors Present: B. Parke, president; N. Ewing, S. T.
                    Scott.
            Ordered that the Librarian have a credit of $35.50 for the following Books purchased of
                    Genl. W. Johnston Viz.:
            
               
                  No.971–5
                  Biglands View of the World
                  $12.50
               
               
                  976
                  Campbells lectures
                  2.75
               
               
                  977
                  History of the late War
                  3.00
               
               
                  979
                  Millars Ranks
                  1.50
               
               
                  978
                  Temple of Nature
                  2.75
               
               
                  980–82
                  Kotzebue's Plays
                  5.00
               
               
                  983–85
                  Boswells life of Johnson
                  8.50
               
            
            Ordered that the appraised price be the Sums annexed respectively as above.
            Adjorned.
            
               
                  2 At this point are entered the unexplained letters "A. S.
                        C." partially enclosed by a flourish.
            
            
            Monday Feby. 5th 1821
            Annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company Present: B. Parke (Prest.); L. S. Shuler, Saml. T. Scott, Danl. Smith,
                    Wm. E. Breading, G. R. C. Sullivan, N. Blackman, Robt. Buntin by his Proxy G. R. C. Sullivan, E.
                    Boudinot by his proxy Wm. E. Breading, James T. Moffatt by his proxy Wm. E. Breading, Isaac
                    Blackford by his proxy J. Wood, Wm. H. Dunica by his proxy N. Blackman, Moses Tabbs, N. Ewing,
                    Samuel Emison, John McGiffin, Saml. Tomlinson, Geo. Ewing, E. Stout, V. I. Bradley, John Badollet,
                    Jas. B. McCall by his proxy E. Stout.
            On motion The Stockholders proceeded to the election of officers of the library for the ensuing year.
                    When it appeared that Benjamin Parke was elected president, Samuel T. Scott, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , John Badollet, Moses Tabbs, L. S. Shuler Directors and Elisha Boudinot Librarian.
            On motion of S. T. Scott Ordered the Estate of the late James Johnson be released from all arrears
                    due the Library and that the Share be forfeited.
            On motion Resolved that the Directors be empowered at their discretion to remit such fines and
                    forfeitures to the Library Company as have accrued on account of the retention of books since the
                    month of July last.
            Adjourned.
            June 28th 1821.
            At a special meeting of the Directors there were present: B. Parke, Prst.; J. Badollet, L. S. Shuler,
                    and Moses Tabbs.
            On motion it was resolved that a meeting of the Stockholders be called for the purpose of electing a
                    librarian in order to provide for the contemplated and expected resignation of E. Boudinot said
                    meeting to take place at the Library room, on Saturday week next at 2 oclock P. M.
            Adjourned.
            Saturday 7 July 1821
            At a special meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company Present: B. Parke, President; John Badollet, L. S. Shuler, William
                    Lindsey, James B. McCall, George Ewing, Albert Badollet, N. Blackman; E. Boudinot, Librar.
            There being not a quorom present the meeting adjourned.
            
            Friday July 13th 1821.
            At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library there were present: B. Parke, Prest.; John Badollet, L. S. Shuler, and Moses
                    Tabbs.
            E. Boudinot the present Librarian contemplating a removal from 
                        Vincennes
                    , and it being no longer convenient for him to attend to the library—having
                    failed in an attempt to procure a meeting of the Stockholders for the purpose of electing another
                    Librarian; and Mr. Boudinot proposing to employ such person to take charge of the library as may be
                    approved by the board—And George R. C. Sullivan having agreed to find a room to put up
                    the books and to act for Mr. Boudinot until the next meeting of the Company Therefore Resolved That
                    Mr. Boudinot be and he is hereby authorised to employ Mr. Sullivan, in the care of the books, and in
                    his name generally, to do and perform all the duties of Librarian.
            Adjourned.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     February 2nd 1822
            At A meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library there were present: B. Parke, President; Moses Tabbs, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Lawrence Shuler, Members.
            Ordered That the librarian Receive the following Books of John C. S. Harrison at the prices annexed
                    to each work, and give him credit on his & Genl. Harrisons shares.
            
               
                  Miltons prose
                  at
                  $4.00
               
               
                  Letters from 
                                Paris
                            
                  
                  at
                  2.00
               
               
                  Chateaubrians Recollection
                  at
                  1.00
               
               
                  Rosaland De Tracay
                  3 vols.
                  1.50
               
               
                  Godwins Justice
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  Adolphe
                  at
                  .75
               
               
                  
                  
                  $12.25
               
            
            Ordered that the Librarian Receive the following Books of Elias McNamee at the prices annexed to each
                    work and give him credit on his contributions.
            
               
                  Bucks works 3 vol.
                  at $1.50
               
               
                  Emigrants guide
                  .75
               
               
                  Pearces Memoirs
                  .50
               
               
                  History of America
                  .50
               
               
                  History of New england
                  .50
               
               
                  Domestic Coocery
                  .50
               
               
                  
                  4.25
               
            
            
            Ordered that the Librarian take of Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     Esquire, History of the Wars of the french Revolution at $20, and pay the
                    same.
            Monday February 4th 1822
            Annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library company, When Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , John McDonald, John Badolett, James B. McCall, J. C. S. Harrison, Daniel Smith, Benjm.
                    V. Beckes, Saml. T. Scott, Christian Graeter, Laurence Shuler, Jacob Kuykendall, John Law, William
                    Burtch,—Moffit, Elias Mcnamee, and G. R. C. Sullivan acting Librarian.
            On Motion Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     Esqr. was unanimously called to fill the Presidents chair Pro Tem.
            On Motion of George R. C. Sullivan Ordered, That the Librarian, in consideration of C. Smiths
                    services as Librarian heretofore, credit his account in full.
            On motion of G. R. C. Sullivan Ordered That the share of William Linsey be forfeited, for
                    noncomplyanc with annual payments.
            On motion of Mr. Badolett—Resolved that the shares of all those members of the Library
                    company, who stand indebted thereto for more than fifteen dollars and who will not have paid the
                    same before the first day of June 1822 shall be forfeited and that this Resolution shall be
                    published in the Western Sun for one month.
            On motion of Mr. Baddolett Resolved that any share or shares belonging to the estate of any deceased
                    share holder, shall not be subject to the annual contribution, until the Legal representative or
                    representatives apply for any of the privileges confered by such share or shares.
            On motion of James B. McCall Resolved that it appears to the satisfaction of this meeting, that
                    Benjm. V. Beckes has paid his annual contribution for the year 1821 in advance to the Librarian, and
                    that he have credit for the same.
            Mr. Scott, presented a claim on the Library company in favour of John D. Hay And on motion, The same
                    was refered to a committee of five share holders, consisting of Messrs. 
                        Blackford
                    , Harrison, Kuykendall, Law & Shular to examine and Report thereon to the Share
                    holders on the 1st Monday in april next.
            
            On motion of Mr. Scott The meeting proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing year and
                    after counting the Ballots, the President Pro Tem, declared, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , J. C. S. Harrison, Lawrence S. Shuler, John Badolett and Elias McNamee duly elected
                    Directors for the Ensuing year, George R. C. Sullivan, Librarian for the ensuing year and Moses
                    Tabbs President for the ensuing year.
            Ordered That meeting now adjourn to meet again on the first Monday in April next.
            26th February 1822
            Board of Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library company, assembled this day upon the call of the President, When Present: Moses
                    Tabbs, President; Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Elias McNamee, J. C. S. Harrison, Directors; G. R. C. Sullivan, Librarian.
            Ordered, That the Librarian Receive of Arthur Patterson, and give him credit for one share and the
                    contribution due thereon from the 1st of January last the following Books.
            
               
                  Secret Memoirs
                  1 volume at
                  $00.71 3/4
               
               
                  Progress of Love
                  2
                  1.43 1/2
               
               
                  Laura Valcheret
                  1
                  .71 3/4
               
               
                  Henry De Beauvais
                  2
                  1.43 1/2
               
               
                  Notes on the Parables
                  
                  .71 3/4
               
               
                  Modern Travels
                  4 vol.
                  2.87
               
               
                  Fleetwood
                  2 "
                  1.43 1/2
               
            
            Ordered That the Librarian Receive of William Carroll the following Books at the prices annexed, and
                    apply the amount thereof to the credit of James Farrington, the over plus to the credit of said
                    Carroll.
            
               
                  Ellegrant Extracts
                  1 vol.
                  $00.50
               
               
                  Spy
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  Greens Poems
                  1 vol.
                  .50
               
               
                  Wardens Letters
                  1 vol.
                  .50
               
               
                  Plumptres Tales
                  2 vol.
                  1.
               
               
                  Navel History of the 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  1 vol.
                  .50
               
               
                  
                  
                  3.50
               
            
            Ordered that the Librarian, dispose of Horrace in french No. 198, 199, at $1.50.
            Ordered, that the Librarian be and he is hereby directed to institute suits on all sums which may be
                    due the company after the Second Monday in April next, and that the Librarian give public notice in
                    the Western Sun of this Resolution.
            
            Ordered, That the Librarian, purchase some cheap covering for the Books.
            Ordered, That the Librarian contract with some one for Labelling and repairing the binding of such
                    books as needs it.
            The account of E. Stout, for printing for the company up to 23 Febry. Inst. of $6.75, was
                    allowed, and ordered to be entered to his credit.
            The Board Then adjourned.
            G. E. C. Sullivan, Librarian.
            [May 30, 1822]
            Board of Directors of The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company Assembled this 30th May 1822, upon the Call of Moses Tabbs Esqr.
                    President, when present: Moses Tabbs, President; John Badolett, J. C. S. Harrison, Elias McNamee,
                    Members.
            On Motion of Mr. Harrison—Ordered That the Librarian be directed to refuse the use of the
                    Library to such stockholders as shall remain defaulters to the institution to the amount of fifteen
                    Dollars and upwards after the first day of July next, and that the Librarian furnish a copy of this
                    resolution to such persons as may at this time stand in the situation contemplated by this
                    Resolution—Provided however that this resolution shall in no manner effect any suit
                    already brought or hereafter to be brought against such defaulters.
            On Motion of Mr. Badolett—Resolved That the Honorable Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , be requested by the Librarian, to assist him in selecting such Books as may need
                    repairing—and making out a new catalogue.
            Ordered That the Librarian Receive of J. C. S. Harrison Esqr. Dr. Franklins works in 6 volumes bound
                    in boards at $10.25.
            The meating then adjourned.
            G. R. C. Sullivan, Librarian.
            Monday February 3rd 1823
            Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company Present: Doctor Elias McNamee was elected President pro tem and J. B.
                    MCall Secretary; Daniel Smith, James Badollett, James Moffet, Wm. Carroll, Albert Badollett, John
                    McDonald, Arthur Patterson, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    ,  John McClure, Elijah Boudinot, Samuel T. Scott,
                    Doctor Jacob Kuykendall, J. C. S. Harrison, Saml. Smith, L. S. Shuler.
            On Motion of Doctr. Shulor Resolved That the members proceed to the Election of Officers for the
                    present year After counting the ballots, The President pro tem declared Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     duly elected President and Elias McNamee, John Badollet Jacob Kuykendall, Samuel T.
                    Scott, and Laurence S. Shulor Directors and Laurence S. Shulor Librarian.
            On Motion of Mr. Moffet Resolved that the report of the committee to whom was referred the claim of
                    John D. Hay be received and concurred in.
            The committee to whom was referred Mr. Hays demand on the Library company Report that they have
                    examined the Subject and according to Mr. Hays Statement it appears that the amount of books
                    purchased and expences for carriges &c. is $273.75 and the amount of cash
                    received by Mr. Hay from the Librarian is $264.—from which it appears there is
                    due Mr. Hay—$9.75 all which is submitted.
            L. S. Shulor, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Jacob Kuykendall, J. C. S. Harrison, John Law, Committee.
            On Motion of Mr. Blackford Resolved that the Share or Shares of every Stockholder who may be in
                    arrears either for fines, or otherwise, to the amount of eight dollars, or more on the first day of
                    march next, shall be forfeited and such arrearages remitted.
            Resolved further that the above resolution be published for three weeks successively in the western
                    Sun.
            On motion of Doctr. Shulor Resolved that a committee be appointed to settle with George R. C.
                    Sullivan late Librarian, whereupon
            On motion Resolved that this meeting adjourn to meet on the first Monday of April next.
            J. B. MCall Secretary Pro. tem.
            On motion of John McDonald Resolved that Col. Luke Decker's relinquishment of his share is
                    hereby received and all fines and forfeitures that may have accrued on said shares is rescinded.
            Saturday 8th February 1823.
            Special meeting of the President & Directors. Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; Samuel T. Scott, John Badollet, Elias McNaMee, Jacob Kuykendall, L. S. Shuler,
                    Director.
            
            On motion, Ordered that Elisha Boudinott have credit for Four dollars for "Colemans Collections" and the "Whole duty of
                        man", this day purchased of him. That the first be appraised at $1.50,
                    and the second at $2.50.
            On motion, Ordered That the President call a special meeting of the shareholders on Saturday the 15th
                    Inst. at ten Oclock A. M. at the Library room.
            The Board adjourned until tuesday evening next.
            Tuesday 11th February 1823.
            Adjourned meeting of the President & Directors. Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; Saml. T. Scott, Jacob Kykendall, L. S. Shuler, Elias McNaMee, John Badollet,
                    Directors.
            On motion, Whereas it appears to the Board that John Bruner has paid more than $20. on a
                    share of Wm. H. Dunica, therefore Resolved that the said Bruner be authorized to subscribe for a
                    share, upon his paying two dollars, being the annual contribution due 1st January last.
            On motion, Whereas it appears that on the 7th February 1820, the Directors received 
                        Brown
                    's history of Missions at the price of six dollars, for which Samuel T. Scott
                    claims a credit, Therefore Resolved that the Librarian be authorized to credit Mr. Scott's
                    account with the said sum of $6.
            On motion, Whereas John Badollet stands charged with the purchase of a share under date of 6th
                    January 1820, and as that charge appears to the satisfaction of the Directors to have been a
                    mistake, Therefore ordered that he receive credit for the amount of the same.
            On motion, Whereas it appears to the satisfaction of the Directors that on the 11th March 1820
                    Lawrence S. Shuler purchased a share in the Library for which he paid in books the sum of 8 dollars,
                    & wheras it does not appear, by the informality of the entry made of the receipt of the
                    books in the minutes of the Institution that said Shuler became then, & has since been a
                    shareholder, Ordered that the said Shuler be declared such from the above date, and that an account
                    be opened to him accordingly.
            On motion, Ordered that Lawrence S. Shuler have credit for seven dollars for "Blacstones
                    Commentaries" in 4 volumes, the "Historical Compend.", &
                    "Burtons Lectures".
            
            Ordered, That Bl. Com. be appraised at 5 dollars, Historical Compend. at one dollar twenty five
                    cents, & Burton's Lectures at seventy five cents.
            The Board adjourned.
            [February 15, 1823]
            Special meeting of the Shareholders called by the President, pursuant to an order of the Directors,
                    at the Library Room, on Saturday, the 15th February 1823. Present: John Badollett, Albert Badollet,
                    Jacob Kuykendall, John D. Hay by Is. 
                        Blackford
                    , Richard P. Price, Elias McNaMee, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     as Executor of Jno. Johnson decd., Genl. W. Johnson, Elihu Stout, Christian Graeter, G.
                    R. C. Sullivan, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Samuel Emmerson, John Ewing by Jacob Kuykendall, E. Boudinott, John Collins, Wm. H.
                    Carroll, Arthur Patterson, J. C. S. Harrison, Henry V. Sullivan by G. R. C. Sullivan, L. S. Shuler,
                    John Badollet as administrator of Saml. McKee Jr.—Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.—L. S. Shuler Clk.
            On motion, Resolved that the Resolution passed at the last annual meeting declaring "that
                    the share or shares of every stockholder who may be in arrears either for fines or otherwise, to any
                    amount exceeding eight dollars, on the first day of March next, shall be forfeited, and such
                    arrearages remitted," be and the same is hereby repealed.
            On motion, Resolved that all fines for nonpayment of annual contributions be and they are hereby
                    remitted, and that the Directors be and they are hereby enjoined to cause suits to be entered for
                    the recovery of all ballances due after deductions of said fines, which shall remain unpaid on the
                    first day of April next.
            On motion, Resolved that hereafter no fine shall be incurred for the non payment of the annual
                    contribution, and that it shall be and is hereby made the duty of the Librarian, upon the expiration
                    of two months after the first day of January in each and every year, to cause suit to be instituted
                    against any persons in arrear either on account of any annual contribution, fines, or otherwise.
            On motion, Resolved That all sums appearing to the debit of the following individuals, be and they
                    are hereby remitted, & that their accounts be finally closed, George  Wallace, Daniel Moore, Joshua Bond …, … Daniel
                    Sullivan, John McClure Jr., William H. Dunnica, George Codd, David M. Hale, Nathaniel 
                        Huntington
                    , Samuel Dillworth, William P. Bennett; and that any ballance that may be due from the
                    estate of Nathan Blackman decd, be and the same is hereby remitted.
            On motion, Resolved that any person, upon paying the sum of three dollars, shall be entitled to the
                    use of the books of the Library for one year from the payment of said sum, and moreover shall be
                    subject to the rules and bye laws of the Library.
            L. S. Shuler resigned his appointment of Librarian.
            On motion, The meeting proceeded to the election of a Librarian, and upon counting the ballots it
                    appeared that J. C. S. Harrison was duly elected.
            There being no more business, the meeting adjourned.
            Monday 24th February 1823
            Special meeting of the President & Directors Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            On motion Resolved that (agreeably to his request) Genl. Waller Taylor, in consideration of his
                    giving up his share, and presenting the Library with the "State papers"
                    &c. be released from his debts, thereto, and have hereafter the privalege of using the
                    Books, when he is residing in 
                        Vincennes
                    , without annual contributions.
            On Motion, Ordered, that the Librarian have credit for ten Dollars & 25 cents, for "
                        Franklin
                    's Works" purchased of him on the 30th of May 1822. And that the
                    appraised value of said books be twelve Dollars.
            On Motion Resolved, that any shareholder may lend his share to any person not being a member of the
                    Company by permission in writing directed to the Librarian, the said shareholder remaining
                    answerable for contributions, fines &c.
            On Motion Ordered, that the Librarian permit William Carroll to take the "Classical
                    Atlas" and have the use of the same for two weeks.
            The Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Librn.
            
            A List of Books belonging to the "
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company" on the 19th February 1823; Viz.:
            [Numbers 1–426 of the list which follows have been omitted because they duplicate those
                    numbers recorded in the minutes of August 7, 1813, with these exceptions: numbers 68, 90, 108, 138,
                    150, 172, 185, 186, 210, and 336 are listed as missing; numbers 91, 133–34, and
                    198–99 are listed as sold; number 327 is marked "(x Missing) since
                    recovered.)"; and slightly different appraised values are given for numbers 183, 330, and
                    383. The earlier listing of numbers 1–426 can be found in J. Robert Constantine (ed.),
                    "The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (December, 1965), 372–76.]
            
               
                  Nos.
                  Title of the Work.
                  AppraisedValue Dolls, cts.
               
               
                  427–8
                  Isabinda
                  1.50
               
               
                  429
                  Guthrie's Gazetteer
                  2.
               
               
                  430–1
                  Malthus on Population
                  8.
               
               
                  432–3
                  Hoole's Tasso
                  8.
               
               
                  434–5
                  Telemachus
                  9.
               
               
                  436
                  Public Characters
                  4.
               
               
                  437
                  Debates on the Judiciary
                  4.
               
               
                  438
                  Whitman's Travels
                  3.50
               
               
                  439
                  Wilson's Travels
                  3.50
               
               
                  440
                  Smith's Moral & Political Philosophy
                  4.25
               
               
                  441
                  Classical Dictionary
                  5.50
               
               
                  442–3
                  Young's 
                                France
                            
                  
                  6.75
               
               
                  444–6
                  Rumford's Essays
                  10.75
               
               
                  447–9
                  
                     
                                Warren
                            's History of the Revolution
                  10.
               
               
                  450–2
                  Tooke's Russia
                  12.
               
               
                  453–6
                  Adams' Philosophy
                  18.75
               
               
                  457–9
                  Barton's St. Pierre
                  12.
               
               
                  460
                  Paley's Philosophy
                  3.50
               
               
                  461
                  Ordinaire on Volcanoes
                  3.25
               
               
                  462
                  Chemical Catechism
                  4.
               
               
                  463
                  Radcliff 's Journey
                  3.
               
               
                  464–5
                  Dickerson's Writings
                  6.75
               
               
                  466
                  Ferguson's Essays
                  4.
               
               
                  467
                  Edwards' Dissertation
                  2.
               
               
                  468
                  DeLolme's 
                                England
                            
                  
                  2.75
               
               
                  469
                  Farmer's Guide
                  4.
               
               
                  470–1
                  Meare's Voyages
                  6.75
               
               
                  472
                  Darwin's Life
                  2.50
               
               
                  473
                  Roman Antiquities
                  4.
               
               
                  474–5
                  Lee's Memoirs
                  11.
               
               
                  476–7
                  Azuni on Maritime Law
                  6.75
               
               
                  478–9
                  Acerbi's Travels
                  16.
               
               
               
                  480–504
                  Mavor's Universal History
                  44.
               
               
                  505–8
                  Pindar's Works
                  8.
               
               
                  509–18
                  Beattie's Works
                  16.
               
               
                  519–20
                  Tristram Shandy
                  4.
               
               
                  521
                  St. Evermond & Walter
                  1.50
               
               
                  522–3
                  Brydone's Tour
                  2.75
               
               
                  524
                  Bacon's Essays
                  1.50
               
               
                  525
                  
                     
                                Cumberland
                            's Memoirs
                  1.50
               
               
                  526–7
                  Moore's 
                                Italy
                            
                  
                  3.50
               
               
                  528
                  Vicar of Wakefield
                  1.50
               
               
                  529
                  Wild Flowers
                  1.50
               
               
                  530
                  DeSalvo's Travels
                  1.50
               
               
                  531
                  Farmer's Boy
                  1.50
               
               
                  532
                  Peyrouse's Voyages
                  1.50
               
               
                  533
                  Collins' Voyages
                  1.50
               
               
                  534
                  Belisarius
                  1.50
               
               
                  535
                  Annals of Pitt
                  1.50
               
               
                  536
                  
                     
                                Washington
                            's Letters on Agriculture
                  1.50
               
               
                  537–8
                  Lewis & Clark's Expedition
                  7.
               
               
                  539–53
                  Bissett's History of 
                                England
                            
                  
                  47.
               
               
                  554
                  Police of 
                                London
                            
                  
                  3.25
               
               
                  555–7
                  Emporium, by Cooper
                  15.
               
               
                  558
                  
                     
                                Pike
                            's Expedition
                  5.
               
               
                  559
                  American Biography
                  3.75
               
               
                  560–1
                  Proud's History of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                  
                  6.25
               
               
                  562–4
                  Dupon's Voyages
                  10.
               
               
                  565
                  Breckenridge's View of 
                                Louisiana
                            
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  566
                  Findley's History of the Western
               
               
                  
                  Insurrection
                  2.50
               
               
                  567–8
                  Humboldt's Travels
                  7.50
               
               
                  569–72
                  Hardy's Biographical Dictionary
                  14.
               
               
                  573
                  Taylor's Statistics
                  3.75
               
               
                  574
                  Care of Sheep, by Daubenton
                  1.50
               
               
                  575
                  Turnbull's Voyages
                  1.25
               
               
                  576–7
                  Clark's Travels
                  5.
               
               
                  578–82
                  Lady Montagu's Works
                  9.25
               
               
                  583
                  Bard on Sheep
                  1.
               
               
                  584–90
                  Niles' Register
                  26.
               
               
                  591
                  Life of Napoleon
                  1.
               
               
                  592
                  Olive Branch
                  4.50
               
               
                  593
                  Porter's Journal
                  4.50
               
               
                  594
                  Ewing's Philosophy
                  2.75
               
               
                  595–6
                  Curran's Speeches
                  5.
               
               
                  597
                  Allison on Taste
                  2.50
               
               
                  598
                  Foster's Essays
                  1.
               
               
                  599–601
                  Watson's Philip the 2nd & 3rd of 
                                Spain
                            
                  
                  12.
               
               
                  602–4
                  Female Biography
                  9.
               
               
                  605–6
                  Bigland's History of 
                                England
                            
                  
                  7.50
               
               
                  607
                  Duncan's Cicero
                  2.
               
               
                  608
                  Gleanings of Husbandry
                  2.
               
               
                  609
                  Farmer's Assistant
                  2.
               
               
                  610
                  Martin's Law of Nations
                  2.
               
               
                  611
                  Volney's Ruins
                  1.50
               
               
               
                  612
                  Bozman's 
                                Maryland
                            
                  
                  2.50
               
               
                  613
                  Indiana Constitution
                  1.25
               
               
                  614–15
                  Artist's Manual
                  9.
               
               
                  616–17
                  Popular Tales
                  2.50
               
               
                  618–19
                  Erskine's Speeches
                  7.50
               
               
                  620–1
                  Adams' Lectures
                  5.
               
               
                  622–3
                  Smart's Horace
                  2.
               
               
                  624
                  Rise & Progress of Religion
                  1.25
               
               
                  625–6
                  Hume's Essays
                  9.
               
               
                  627–32
                  Mosheim's Church History
                  15.
               
               
                  633
                  Ewards' Life
                  1.
               
               
                  634
                  Savary's 
                                Greece
                            
                  
                  4.25
               
               
                  635–40
                  Soulavie's Memoirs of Louis 16th
                  22.50
               
               
                  641–2
                  History of Chili
                  5.
               
               
                  643–6
                  Herodotus, by Beloe
                  15.
               
               
                  647
                  Coote's Modern Europe
                  3.50
               
               
                  648–9
                  Oddy, on Commerce
                  5.
               
               
                  650–73
                  Swift's Works
                  30.
               
               
                  674–9
                  Murphy's Tacitus
                  25.
               
               
                  680–3
                  Edwards' West Indies
                  16.
               
               
                  684
                  Life of Nelson
                  1.50
               
               
                  685
                  Prince Eugene
                  1.50
               
               
                  686–7
                  Naval History of the 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  2.50
               
               
                  688
                  Park's last Travels
                  3.50
               
               
                  689
                  Latour's History of the late War
                  5.
               
               
                  690–1
                  Salmagundi
                  3.50
               
               
                  692–3
                  Pliny's Letters
                  3.50
               
               
                  694–5
                  Manners & Customs, by Goldsmith
                  3.50
               
               
                  696–701
                  Burk's Works
                  20.
               
               
                  702–11
                  American State Papers
                  45.
               
               
                  712–13
                  Military Mentor
                  3.
               
               
                  714–15
                  Smith's Sermons
                  3.
               
               
                  716–27
                  Johnson's Works
                  24.
               
               
                  728–32
                  Tatler
                  7.75
               
               
                  733
                  Researches in Asia
                  1.50
               
               
                  734–5
                  Marshall, on Gardening
                  2.50
               
               
                  736–40
                  Sterne's Works (4th Vol. No. 739
               
               
                  
                  missing) since recovered
                  6.25
               
               
                  741
                  Gurney's Short Hand
                  1.87
               
               
                  742–3
                  Espriella's Letters
                  2.50
               
               
                  744
                  Pleasures of Hope & Memory
                  1.25
               
               
                  745–6
                  Guy Mannering
                  2.81
               
               
                  747
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's Poems
                  1.
               
               
                  748
                  Akin's Letters
                  1.25
               
               
                  749–51
                  
                     
                                Newton
                             on the Prophecies
                  4.70
               
               
                  752
                  Paley's Theology
                  1.50
               
               
                  753
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  754
                  Evangelical History
                  1.57
               
               
                  755
                  Grandpre's Voyages
                  1.25
               
               
                  756
                  Pelew Islands
                  1.
               
               
                  757
                  
                     
                                Marion
                            's Life (missing)
                  1.25
               
               
                  758–9
                  Moore's Anacreon
                  1.75
               
               
                  760
                  Life of Whitfield
                  1.25
               
               
               
                  761–2
                  Citizen of the World
                  2.50
               
               
                  763–4
                  Burgh's Dignity
                  3.12
               
               
                  765–7
                  Guardian
                  4.69
               
               
                  768
                  Life of General Lee
                  1.40
               
               
                  769–74
                  Addison's Works
                  11.25
               
               
                  775–80
                  
                     
                                Orlando
                             Furioso
                  9.37
               
               
                  781–4
                  Rambler
                  6.56
               
               
                  785–6
                  Belinda
                  3.12
               
               
                  787–8
                  Waverley (Missing)
                  3.12
               
               
                  789
                  Trumbull's America
                  3.43
               
               
                  790
                  Forsythe on Fruit Trees
                  2.50
               
               
                  791
                  Riley's Narrative
                  3.75
               
               
                  792
                  Barrow's Travels in 
                                China
                            
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  793
                  Buck's Theological Dictionary
                  4.37
               
               
                  794
                  Rush's Essays
                  2.50
               
               
                  795
                  Sampson's Memoirs
                  3.75
               
               
                  796–8
                  Ferguson's 
                                Rome
                            
                  
                  9.37
               
               
                  799
                  Mayo's Ancient Geography & Atlas
                  8.21
               
               
                  800
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            's Body of Divinity
                  4.37
               
               
                  801
                  Humboldt's Travels
                  3.75
               
               
                  802–3
                  American Revolution
                  5.75
               
               
                  804–5
                  Smith's Thucydides
                  8.43
               
               
                  806–8
                  Cardinal DeRetz
                  12.
               
               
                  809–10
                  Spirit of Laws
                  6.25
               
               
                  811–13
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                            's Works
                  11.25
               
               
                  814
                  Pitkin's Statistics
                  5.
               
               
                  815–16
                  Kame's Elements of Criticism
                  6.87
               
               
                  817–20
                  Memoirs of the 
                                Philadelphia
                             Agricultural Society
                  15.
               
               
                  821–2
                  Diversions of Purley
                  7.50
               
               
                  823–5
                  Melmoth's Cicero
                  11.25
               
               
                  826
                  Jesuit's Letters
                  1.56
               
               
                  827
                  
                     
                                Fulton
                            's Life
                  3.75
               
               
                  828
                  Freedom of Navigation
                  3.12
               
               
                  829–31
                  Correspondence of Louis 16th
                  10.
               
               
                  832
                  Voyage to Demarara
                  2.50
               
               
                  833–4
                  Lady Morgan's 
                                France
                            
                  
                  3.75
               
               
                  835
                  Travels in 
                                Canada
                            
                  
                  1.56
               
               
                  836
                  Sketches of Russia
                  2.50
               
               
                  837–8
                  Memoirs of Priestley
                  6.25
               
               
                  839
                  Ellicott's Journal
                  6.25
               
               
                  840–6
                  Niles' Register
                  31.25
               
               
                  847
                  Analysis of Minerals
                  1.62
               
               
                  848–9
                  Traits of Nature
                  3.12
               
               
                  850–1
                  Influence of Literature
                  3.12
               
               
                  852–4
                  Byron's Works (No. 852 missing)
                  6.87
               
               
                  855–9
                  Bolingbroke's Works
                  18.75
               
               
                  860
                  Davy's Chemical Philosophy
                  4.
               
               
                  861
                  Richerand's Physiology
                  5.
               
               
                  862
                  Memoirs of Fox
                  2.81
               
               
                  863
                  Chateaubriand's Travels
                  1.87
               
               
                  864–5
                  Thaddeus of 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  866
                  Wirt's Life of Patrick Henry
                  3.12
               
               
                  867
                  Cooper's Justinian
                  5.
               
               
               
                  868
                  Birkbeck's Notes
                  1.25
               
               
                  869–70
                  Young's 
                                Ireland
                            
                  
                  5.
               
               
                  871–2
                  Preceptor
                  3.
               
               
                  873–6
                  Lyttleton's Henry 2nd
                  8.
               
               
                  877–8
                  Smith's Laboratory
                  5.
               
               
                  879–80
                  Voltaire's Louis 14th
                  5.
               
               
                  881–2
                  Grey's Hudibras
                  4.
               
               
                  883–5
                  Cecilia
                  3.37
               
               
                  886–8
                  Camilla
                  3.
               
               
                  889–91
                  Historical Register
                  6.
               
               
                  892
                  Crutwell's Gazetteer
                  8.
               
               
                  893
                  Patriotic Sketches
                  1.00
               
               
                  894
                  Western Tour
                  1.50
               
               
                  895
                  West & Lyttleton
                  1.
               
               
                  896
                  Evans' Sketches
                  1.25
               
               
                  897
                  United Irishman
                  1.
               
               
                  898
                  History of the Devil
                  1.
               
               
                  899
                  Pilgrim's Progress
                  1.50
               
               
                  900
                  Molyneaux' Case of 
                                Ireland
                            
                  
                  1.
               
               
                  901
                  Military Atlas
                  5.
               
               
                  902
                  The Book
                  1.
               
               
                  903
                  
                     
                                England
                            's Conversion
                  1.
               
               
                  904–5
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            's History of Missions
                  6.
               
               
                  906–8
                  Wanderer
                  2.25
               
               
                  909–10
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            's History of the Late War
                  2.
               
               
                  911
                  Spirit of Despotism
                  1.
               
               
                  912
                  Schultz's Travels
                  2.
               
               
                  913–14
                  Chalmer's Discourses
                  1.75
               
               
                  915–18
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's 4 Gospels
                  10.
               
               
                  919
                  Hobhouse's Letters
                  3.
               
               
                  920–2
                  Religious World
                  8.
               
               
                  923
                  Sandford's 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  3.
               
               
                  924–6
                  Cowper's Poems
                  4.
               
               
                  927
                  Natural Theology
                  1.25
               
               
                  928
                  Phillips' Speeches
                  1.75
               
               
                  929–30
                  Kirk White
                  2.50
               
               
                  931
                  Freneau's Poems
                  1.25
               
               
                  932–3
                  Chrysal
                  2.25
               
               
                  934–6
                  Taylor's Discourses
                  7.50
               
               
                  937
                  Forsythe's 
                                Italy
                            
                  
                  3.25
               
               
                  938
                  Murray's Grammar
                  4.
               
               
                  939
                  Grattan's Speeches
                  3.75
               
               
                  940
                  Recollections of 
                                Italy
                             &c. &c. by Chateaubriand
                  3.
               
               
                  941–3
                  Useful Knowledge, by Bingley
                  5.
               
               
                  944
                  
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Farmer
                  .75
               
               
                  945
                  Lyric Poems
                  1.
               
               
                  946
                  Mather's Essays
                  .75
               
               
                  947–8
                  Charlemagne
                  2.50
               
               
                  949
                  
                     
                                Montgomery
                            's Poems
                  1.25
               
               
                  950–1
                  Tales of the Castle
                  3.
               
               
                  952
                  McFingal
                  1.
               
               
                  953–64
                  Nicholson's Encyclopedia
                  36.
               
               
                  965–6
                  Tales of my Landlord
                  2.50
               
               
               
                  967–8
                  
                     
                                Rob Roy
                             (No. 968 missing)
                  1.75
               
               
                  969–70
                  Knight of St. John
                  2.50
               
               
                  971–5
                  Bigland's View of the World
                  12.50
               
               
                  976
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's Lectures
                  2.75
               
               
                  977
                  History of the Late War, by McAfee
                  3.
               
               
                  978
                  Millar's Ranks
                  1.50
               
               
                  979
                  Temple of Nature
                  2.75
               
               
                  980–2
                  Dramatic Works of Kotzebue
                  5.
               
               
                  983–5
                  Boswell's Life of Johnson
                  8.50
               
               
                  986–7
                  Benedict's History of the Baptists
               
               
                  988–90
                  Rosalind De Tracey
                  1.50
               
               
                  991–3
                  Buck's Miscellaneous Works
                  1.50
               
               
                  994
                  History of New 
                                England
                            
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  995
                  Adolphe
                  .75
               
               
                  996–7
                  
                     
                                Milton
                            's Prose Works
                  4.
               
               
                  998
                  Domestic Cookery
                  .50
               
               
                  999
                  Snowden's History of America
                  .50
               
               
                  1000
                  Pearce's Memoirs
                  .50
               
               
                  1001–4
                  Modern Travels
                  2.87
               
               
                  1005–6
                  Henry De Beauvais
                  1.43
               
               
                  1007
                  Laura Valcheret
                  .75
               
               
                  1008–9
                  Godwin's Fleetwood
                  1.43
               
               
                  1010
                  Green's Poems
                  .50
               
               
                  1011–13
                  Progress of Love (No. 1011 missing)
                  1.43
               
               
                  1014
                  Notes on the Parables
                  .75
               
               
                  1015
                  Memoirs of Mrs. Osborn
               
               
                  1016
                  British Spy
                  .50
               
               
                  1017
                  Elegant Extracts
                  .50
               
               
                  1018
                  Clark's Naval History of the U. States
                  .50
               
               
                  1019–20
                  Plumptre's Tales
                  1.00
               
               
                  1021
                  Chateaubriand's Recollections (Sold)
                  1.
               
               
                  1022
                  Secret Memoirs
                  .75
               
               
                  1023
                  Coleman's Collection
                  1.50
               
               
                  1024
                  Emigrant's Guide
                  .75
               
               
                  1025
                  Letters from 
                                Paris
                             (Sold See
               
               
                  
                  Journal of 2 Feby. 1825)
                  2.
               
               
                  1026–51
                  State Papers
               
               
                  1052–3
                  Godwin's Political Justice
                  3.
               
               
                  1054–5
                  History of the Wars of the
               
               
                  
                  French Revolution
                  20.
               
               
                  1056–61
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                            's Works
                  12.
               
               
                  1062
                  Whole Duty of Man
                  2.50
               
               
                  1063–6
                  Blackstone's Commentaries
                  5.
               
               
                  1067
                  Historical Compend.
                  1.25
               
               
                  1068
                  Warden's Letters
                  .50
               
               
                  1069–80
                  State Papers
               
               
                  
                  
                  2273.44
               
            
            I hereby acknowledge, to have received the Books mentioned in the foregoing list, excepting those,
                    noted as missing, lost & sold.
            February 19th 1823. J. C. S. Harrison Librarian.
            
            Saturday, March 1st 1823.
            At a stated meeting of the President & Directors, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Lawrence S. Shuler, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            Ordered, That the fines & contributions due upon the share of Villars B. Smith (transferred
                    to him by A. S. Campbell) be remitted, & the Account finally closed—provided
                    however that Mrs. Smith will sign a relinquishment of said Share; for her infant son, the said
                    Villars.
            Ordered, That the sum of four dollars 6 1/4 cents, charged upon the share of John Johnson decd, for
                    detention & damage of No. 160, be remitted; this charge being evidently a mistake of the
                    Librarian.
            There being no more business the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Librarian.
            Saturday 5th April 1823.
            At a stated meeting of the President & Directors, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Lawrence S. Shuler, Directors.
            Ordered—that the Librarian receive, of G. R. C. Sullivan, "Shakspeare's
                    Plays" in 17 volumes∗ at Thirty dollars & allow a
                    credit of 14 dollars upon the share of Call & Sullivan, Two dollars upon the share of Henry
                    V. Sullivan, Eight dollars & 75 cents, upon his Account as Librarian, and the Balance of
                    Three dollars & 25 cents to be placed to the credit of the share of John Johnson decd.
            On motion,—Resolved, that the Librarian, permit John Moore to subscribe for One share in
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library and allow him a credit thereon of Eight dollars, being the amount of his
                    Account against the same, this day renderd.
            On motion—Resolved that no Shareholder shall transfer any Share or Shares, except in
                    writing, on the Books of the Library.
            On motion, Ordered that, the Librarian pay the sum of Two dollars, 93 3/4, cents to Samuel Dillworth,
                    it being the amount due him upon an account this day presented, for binding Books.
            and the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Librarian.
            
               
                  ∗ They are numbered 1086 to 1102 inclusive.
            
            
            Saturday April 26th 1823
            A[t] a special meeting of the Board of Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library. Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            Whereas, it appears to the satisfaction of this Board, that in the year 1817, William Lindsay Senr.
                    paid to Chas. Smith then Librarian, the sum of Seven dolls. & 93 3/4 cents, upon his share
                    in this Library; and that he has never received a credit for the same. Therefore it is Ordered, that
                    the Librarian allow him a credit of $7.93 3/4, paid as aforesaid.
            Ordered, That the Librarian allow John Collins a credit of three dollars, upon his share in this
                    Library, it being the amt. of his acct. this day rendered, for repairing Book shelves.
            And the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            Saturday 6th Sept. 1823.
            At a stated meeting of the President & Directors. Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Lawrence S. Shuler, Directors.
            On motion, Resolved, That the Resolution of the Shareholders of 4th February 1822, shall be construed
                    as extending only to those Shares upon which $15. were due after making the deductions
                    authorized by the Resolution of 15th, of the same month.
            Ordered, That the Librarian receive of William Burtch "Peveril of the Peak," in 3
                        Volumes∗ "The Pioneers," in 2 Vols.×
                    and that he be allowed the sum of four dollars, for the same.
            Ordered, That the Librarian receive a credit of Two dollars for "A Voice from 
                        Saint Helena
                    " in 2 Vols.† purchased of him this day.
            Ordered, That the Librarian be directed to subscribe for the "Edinburgh Review",
                    & 
                        Campbell
                    's Monthly Magazine," and that he transmit to the publishers, the
                    subscription price thereof.
            And the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            
               
                  ∗Numbered 1081–3
               × ditto. 1084–5
               † " 1143–4
            
         
         
         
            The Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project
            
                    Robert R. McClarren
                    ∗
                
            For the historian, both amateur and professional, perhaps the most significant activity of
                    Indiana's Sesquicentennial Celebration will be the Manuscript Project. As a part of this
                    observance the Indiana Historical Bureau, the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission, and the Indiana
                    Historical Society will encourage the location and preservation of valuable manuscript and privately
                    printed materials relating to Indiana history. Although this program will be emphasized during 1966,
                    it will continue as long as materials are supplied to the project.
            All the major libraries in the state have been invited to cooperate in this program. At the present
                    time the libraries of Indiana, Purdue, Ball State, Indiana State, and Notre Dame universities; the
                    public libraries of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the Indiana Historical Society Library; and the Indiana State Library are
                    participating. Each library will receive one copy of items accepted for the project. Based on the
                    similar but understandably smaller project of the Civil War Centennial observance, it is estimated
                    that between eighty and one hundred thousand pages of manuscript materials will be copied for the
                    libraries.
            Items received will be numbered and entered in a log. Periodically this log will be copied and
                    distributed to these libraries as a finding list for the materials received. Occasionally important
                    items will be announced in appropriate Indiana periodicals, such as the Library
                        Occupant, the Indiana Magazine of History, and the Indiana
                        History Bulletin. Material which warrants consideration for publication will be brought to
                    the attention of the Indiana Historical Bureau, the Indiana Historical Society, or other possible
                    publishers. Ultimately, the Indiana State Library hopes to prepare and publish a descriptive guide
                    to the materials collected.
            Examples of materials which the project is interested in locating are indicated by items recently
                    copied by the Indiana State Library. These include: the Pleasant Run Presbyterian Church, 
                        Carroll County
                    , 1836–1927; letters of Francis Godfroy and of Civil War veterans; the diary
                    of a forty-niner from 
                  
                     ∗ Robert R. McClarren is the Director, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        St. Joseph
                     County; a township trustee's journal account of sheep killed by dogs in
                    Brandywine Township, 
                        Hancock
                     County, 1866; minutes of the Executive Committee of the Indiana State Grange, 1872 to
                    the present; minutes of the Washingtonian Temperance Society, 
                        Gibson County
                    , 1840–50; and a pamphlet, The Democratic Campaign
                    Songster. Among the many other items appropriate for copying would be restraurant menus,
                    account books, and similar records; letters from Hoosiers in the various wars of the country
                    (including Viet Nam); printed keepsakes, commencement, and other programs; personal and business
                    correspondence; copies of sermons and speeches; written recollections and reminiscences, love
                    letters, schoolboy diaries; catalogs of Indiana manufacturers; broadsides and posters. Anything old
                    or new which describes, explains, or otherwise illustrates life in Indiana or the thoughts of
                    Hoosiers in times past or present (which too soon is the past) is appropriate for consideration.
            Such items are often dismissed as useless by their owners and so are deposited in attics, gargages,
                    and a hundred other similar locations. This is unfortunate because they are invaluable research
                    material. The season is open for hunters of Hoosier history to ferret out this material and to bring
                    it to the attention of the Manuscript Project.
            The commission has prepared a leaflet to publicize the copying program and to encourage statewide
                    response. This publication will be distributed during the year. Letters for special groups, such as
                    the fourth grade students, for whom Indiana history normally is a required subject, and for whom a
                    role in the collection of this material would seem to have an especial appeal, also will be
                    prepared.
            For most of the materials Xerox copies will be made; for over-size, bound, or material in a sequence
                    microfilm copies may be substituted. Neither process harms the original document. Although the
                    emphasis of the program is on the preservation of materials for public use in copy form, owners will
                    be encouraged to donate their material to a library. If the material is not to be donated to a
                    participating library, every effort will be made to return the loaned items to the lender by
                    registered mail within a week.
            Materials or requests for information are to be addressed or delivered to the Manuscript Project,
                    Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
               ,
                    46204.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Material From 
                        United States
                     Censuses, 1790–1890∗
            
            Postive microfilm copies of the original Federal population census schedules for 1800–90
                    may now be purchased from the National Archives. Also available on microfilm are the volumes
                    published by the Bureau of the Census in 1907–8 giving the names of heads of families as
                    shown in the 1790 census schedules; a card index to those entries on the 1880 census schedules that
                    relate to households including a child aged 10 or under; and the 1890 special census schedules
                    enumerating Union veterans and widows of Union veterans of the Civil War.
            The schedules of population contain a wealth of information for genealogists as well as for
                    historians and social scientists. They are of use to the family historian and to the researcher
                    interested in such subjects as westward expansion, the status of free and slave labor, regional and
                    local history, and immigration. Often they contain evidence necessary for proving citizenship.
            As a rule the information given in the schedules for each successive census is progressively more
                    detailed. The schedules for the period 1790–1840 show the names of enumerated heads of
                    families only, other members of the families being accounted for statistically by age groups, sex,
                    and race (white or Negro). All subsequent enumerations, however, list each individual in a household
                    by name with the exception of the slave schedules for 1850 and 1860, which show only the name of the
                    owner and the number of his slaves by age group and sex. The 1850 census was the first to record for
                    each person enumerated his age, occupation if over age 15, and place of birth. If the parent of a
                    person enumerated in the 1870 schedules was of foreign birth, that fact is indicated. The 1880
                    schedules add the relationship of each individual to the head of the family.
            The card index to the 1880 schedules is only to those entries that relate to households including a
                    child aged 10 or under. The cards give the names, ages, and birthplaces 
                  
                     ∗ The material which follows has been reproduced verbatim
                            without condensation from the Preface, written by Wayne C. Grover, Archivist of the 
                                United States
                            , of the Federal Population Censuses, 1790–1890 (
                                Washington
                            : National Archives, 1965). This information should be especially useful to
                            genealogists.
               
                     of all members of such households; and there is a separate
                    cross-reference card for each child aged 10 or under whose surname is different from that of the
                    head of the household in which he is listed. The cards are arranged by State or Territory and
                    thereunder by the Soundex system; that is, alphabetically by the first letter of the surname,
                    thereunder by the sound of the surname, and thereunder alphabetically by given name. The cards
                    giving the names of persons in institutions are usually at the end of a State. A guide for the use
                    of the Soundex system is reproduced as an appendix to this list.
            Most of the 1890 population schedules were destroyed or badly damaged by fire; the few surviving
                    schedules have been microfilmed. The 1890 special census schedules enumerating Union veterans and
                    widows of Union veterans of the Civil War give information about the military service of each
                    veteran named and the post-office address of each listed person who was living at the time of the
                    enumeration.
            This list is arranged chronologically by census year, thereunder alphabetically by name of State or
                    Territory, and then, as a rule, alphabetically by county. For each microfilm publication it gives
                    the microcopy number; the total number of rolls and their price; the price of the microfilm for each
                    State and Territory; and a complete list of the microfilm rolls, showing for each roll its number,
                    contents, and price.
            Positive prints of one or more rolls of the microfilm listed may be purchased at the prices quoted.
                    These prices are based on a charge of 8 cents for each foot of 35-mm. or 4 cents for each foot of
                    16-mm. microfilm, with all prices rounded off to the nearest dollar. A 10-percent discount is given
                    on orders for more than $1,000 and a 15-percent discount on orders for more than
                    $3,000. Checks or money orders for microfilm should be made payable to the General
                    Services Administration (NCE) and should be sent to the Collections Officer, National Archives and
                    Records Service, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20408. Each order should specify the microcopy number, the census year, roll
                    number or numbers, and the price of the microfilm ordered. Please use the order forms at the end of
                    this list.
            The National Archives can provide photostat or Xerox reproductions of pages from the original
                    schedules or enlargements from the microfilm copies. Prices depend on the type and size of the
                    reproduction desired.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880. By Emma Lou Thornbrough. The History of Indiana, Volume III. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historial Bureau and Indiana Historical Society, 1965. Pp. XII, 758. Notes,
                    illustrations, map, bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $7.50; paperbound,
                    $4.50.)
            The author has attempted in writing this volume to have due regard for proportion and balance
                    concerning the numerous topics treated, and, in so doing, has devoted more space and research to the
                    somewhat neglected phases of Indiana history and less to those which have received more adequate
                    treatment. Hence, Thornbrough analyzes to a greater degree post-Civil War political developments
                    than she does pre-Civil War ones. She pays particular attention to economic changes, to which she
                    feels little research has been directed for any part of the period covered.
            The scope of this work is broad. On the political side, state and national issues are considered,
                    involving necessarily the career of many prominent individuals. The impact of war, in its numerous
                    ramifications, receives due attention. Such topics as internal improvements, agriculture,
                    manufacturing, banking, education, religion, libraries, newspapers, ethnic strains in population,
                    and other social phenomena consume more than half the pages in this large book. Statistical tables
                    are frequently inserted in such fashion as to be easily correlated with the narrative.
            Particular comment is in order on portions of this work. The author, having written the monograph,
                        The Negro in Indiana before 1900, reveals exceptionally well the ways in which
                    the Negro was a controversial factor in the state during much of the period covered. She holds that
                    disloyalty in Indiana during the Civil War has been much exaggerated and subscribes to the
                    revisionist view on that matter: "But if one accepts a recent definition of copperheadism
                    as ‘avid opposition to the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration,’ and adds to it avid opposition to Governor Morton, the
                    number of copperheads in Indiana was large. Those who wanted to see the Union permanently divided
                    and who were ready actively to help the Confederate cause were very few" (p. 181).
            The temperance question, complicated by a number of factors, was second only to slavery in its
                    emotional impact upon the minds of individuals. The author is at her best in unraveling the twists
                    and turns and inconsistencies incident to the controversy over greenbacks. She portrays the Hoosier
                    Grange as not quite as politically minded as it was in other western states; and she tells us that
                    Indiana, in 1880, had fewer foreign born persons, Delaware excepted, than any other northern state.
                    The Germans and Irish, however, were present in sufficient numbers to affect the history of the
                    state in significant ways.
            The development of a network of railroads by 1880 is portrayed in considerable detail, and the
                    blessings and the evils incident to this development are not overlooked. Agriculture made marked
                    progress, but large scale manufacturing was not conspicuous. The origins and growth of an
                    educational system in the face of many adverse factors are the themes of the longest chapter in the
                    book. It is unfortunate  that in writing on educational
                    institutions, religious sects, and newspapers so many names have to be included; but the reviewer
                    realizes there would be criticism if many exceptions were made.
            The author is to be congratulated on the prodigious amount of work that has gone into this highly
                    meritorious, comprehensive work. The reveiwer wishes that she had indicated some of the reaction in
                    Indiana to 
                        Lincoln
                    's indeterminate policy toward Fort 
                        Sumter
                     in March, 1861, and that she had included more discussion of the Mississippi
                        River question during the secession crisis. The spelling of the name of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     governor should be Andrew, not Andrews (p. 138).
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University Henry H. Simms
         
         
            
               The Financial Role of Indiana in World War II. By Bernard Friedman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1965. Pp. x, 267. Tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $5.50.)
            This useful, informative book is a volume in the Indiana War History Series, Indiana in
                        World War II, sponsored by the Indiana War History Commission. A straightforward, readable
                    narrative with a minimum of statistical materials, it covers the fiscal side of the war as it
                    affected Indiana. It includes such matters as the financing of industrial conversion to war
                    production, price, wage, and rent controls, and the war savings program in the state.
            The financial role of Indiana in wartime is described within the context of a continuing conflict and
                    debate over fiscal policy participated in by both organized labor and organized business and,
                    sometimes, by organized farmers. The chief antagonists in this struggle were agencies like the State
                    Industrial Council (CIO), the State Federation of Labor (AFL), the State Chamber of Commerce, and
                    the Indiana Farm Bureau. Among the main issues in the controversy were the kind of taxes necessary
                    in order to pay for the war and the proper methods of attaining economic stabilization. In general
                    conservative forces seem to have predominated in Indiana. Only very reluctantly did the state accept
                    the increasing federal regulation and intervention which came with wartime tax collecting practices
                    and economic controls. For some reason the book fails to treat in any detail the political campaigns
                    of the period, which might have thrown considerable light on the divisions of opinion within the
                    state on fiscal questions.
            The author's conclusion is that war is costly, both in material losses and in lives.
                    Increased debt and taxes took their toll, but worst of all was inflation, which depreciated the
                    savings of those who put their money in war bonds and bank deposits during the war. In spite of
                    this, many Hoosiers experienced a rise in real income, especially wage earners as contrasted with
                    those dependent on rents, dividends, and interest payments. Also, farmers who were able to pay off
                    their mortgages with wartime gains profited from the higher prices and the rise in farm values in
                    the postwar years. But for the state's population as a whole, the author's last
                    lesson is that in economic terms war is waste.
            
               DePauw University Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
         
            
               The Rise of the West, 1754–1830. By Francis S. Philbrick. (
                        New York
                    : Harper and Row, 1965. Pp. xvii, 398. Notes, maps, illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $6.00.)
            In American history the West is not only an area, a population, or a manner of living but an
                    expression of the love of men and women as they search for better lives. In this addition to The New American Nation Series, Francis Philbrick proposes to sacrifice the
                    romance and idealism of the West in favor of truth. The author correctly treats the early West as a
                    part of the British Empire. He examines the problems and subsequent weak solutions of British
                    colonial policy between 1754 and the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     ending the Revolutionary War. Americans quickly discovered that independence was not a
                    panacea, and that the newly formed Confederation government had inherited many difficulties.
                    Conflicting land claims among states, the validity of individual land grants, and the controlling of
                    Indian relations pointed to the need for regulation of western land. Confederation committees chosen
                    for organization of government in the Northwest squarely faced these problems. Philbrick contrasts
                    the land ordinance of 1785 with its famous successor two years later and contends that the
                    Jeffersonian stamp of the earlier ordinance gave way to a plan by eastern conservatives led by Rufus
                    King and Nathan Dane. Philbrick's argument—previously presented by Merrill
                    Jensen—makes certain that the reader credits the Ordinance of 1787 to Nathan Dane.
            This book is something of a revisionist effort. The author minimizes the importance that the West had
                    in affecting democratic institutions and criticizes the scholarship—or lack of
                    scholarship—of Frederick Jackson Turner. The author declares that "Turner could
                    never even have read the Ordinance of 1787 not seemingly before 1899" (p. 368). He states
                    that the 
                  Indiana, Illinois
               , and 
                        Michigan
                     territories violated the indentured servitude and slavery provisions of 1787. He
                    describes how squatters threatened recently arrived speculators attending government land auctions
                    and how commonplace was the frontier institution of lynching. Philbrick concludes that
                    "Turner's frontier was totally unreal" (p. 370).
            The author provides a sound analysis of the neglected relationship between Indian removal and public
                    land policy. The clamoring of land-hungry settlers had its effect upon public officials.
                    Difficulties in extinguishing Indian claims sometimes forced the government to buy parcels of land
                    several times. Through 1830 the cost of buying peace from the Indians, of purchasing foreign land,
                    and of managing the federal lands was greater than the proceeds from the land sales. Not measurable
                    were the ties created between the West and federal government. Through her congressional spokesmen
                    the West constantly worked for more favorable land laws.
            Despite its generally high quality of scholarship the book shows certain defects. The author stresses
                    diplomacy involving the West but omits a substantial amount of social and political history. He
                    entirely dismisses pioneer settlement beyond 
                        Ohio
                     prior to 1830. Thus the settlement and eventual admission of the large tier of states
                    extending from Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     are ignored.  During this time questions of
                    statehood and slavery spiraled into a crisis, but the author makes no mention of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. Of the states included in the study, nine had a population over fifty
                    thousand by 1820, and their influence in the affairs of the nation cannot be dismissed. There are
                    also minor errors: Fort Harmar is misspelled; the map showing the routes of Generals Hull and
                    Harrison in the War of 1812 is incorrect (p. 267).
            The editors, because of ample citations in the footnotes, have deleted a bibliography and included a
                    historiographical note on the Turner thesis.
            
               Indiana University George C. Chalou
         
         
            
               American Forts Yesterday and Today. By Bruce Grant. (
                        New York
                    : E. P. Dutton & Company, Inc., 1965. Pp. 381. Illustrations, maps, glossary,
                    selected bibliography, index. $5.95.)
            It appears that many Americans suffer from an edifice complex. How else can one explain the rapid
                    rise in the number of books written on forts? At least six of them have appeared on the market
                    during the past three years, and a number of others are in the production stage. They are limited,
                    however, to military posts, to the fur trade, or to those found in a particular region of the
                    country. Forts of the American West seem to be especially attractive to writers, historians,
                    artists, photographers, publishers, and book buyers, if quantity is a valid indicator. In this
                    newest addition to the list, Bruce Grant goes one step further. He attempts to cover them
                    all—every stockade, palisade, blockhouse, redoubt, garrison, camp, mission, shack, ruin,
                    and rockpile, which at one time or another someone in wisdom or foolishness decided to dub a fort.
                    There are more than 1,200 entries, each of them a monument or a memory to the ingenuity of man.
            The author has a sense of balance for which we may be grateful. Descriptions vary in length according
                    to the importance of the fort. In most cases, the basic information is included. Grant usually gives
                    the dates of the establishment and the abandonment of each fort and frequently includes a statement
                    of its significance. If remains exist, they are discussed in detail. The book is also easy to use.
                    It is divided into sections by geographical area, and forts are grouped by states. The eight
                    regional maps are crowded but adequate. The drawings by Lorence Bjorklund are delightful. Although
                    lacking in detail, they capture the spirit of the times and occasionally evoke an intended chuckle.
            The book has a fatal flaw. One cannot depend on its accuracy. Some of the descriptions appear to be
                    correct, but others are obviously not. Take, for example, the treatment of Fort Laramie, 
                        Wyoming
                    . Grant devotes a full page (p. 258) to the post but commits so many errors, both common
                    and uncommon, that it would take several pages to recount and correct them. One need mention only a
                    few to cast a long shadow on the research of the author.
            
            Grant states that the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1851 provided for the payment of an annuity to the
                    Northern Plains Indians in return for certain lands. Actually, the Indians retained ownership of the
                    land. They simply agreed to allow emigrants to travel over the 
                  Oregon, California
               ,
                    and Mormon trails free from harrassment and to permit the 
                        United States
                     Army to build fortifications along the route. Grant reports that "Old
                    Bedlam," the famous officers' quarters immortalized in a novel by Charles King,
                    cost from $60,000 to $85,000 since lumber for its construction had to be
                    hauled all the way from Fort 
                  Leavenworth, Kansas
               . Records show, however, that the lumber
                    came from trees growing within a fifty mile radius of the post. In fact, logging still continues on
                    nearby Laramie Peak. Grant declares that the State of 
                        Wyoming
                     bought Fort Laramie and donated it to the federal government in 1927. In truth, the
                    state purchased the buildings and land in 1937. It became a part of the National Park System in
                    1938.
            Since the market for books on forts is a bullish one, it is quite possible that another author may
                    soon supply a volume which has all of the strengths and none of the weaknesses of American Forts. At least let us hope so.
            
               National Park Service, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. John Dishon McDermott
         
         
            
               A Nation on Trial: America and The War of 1812. By Patrick C. T. White. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1965. Pp. ix, 177. Notes, maps, suggested reading,
                    index. Cloth, $4.95; paperbound, $1.95.)
            American historical scholarship has, so it seems, exhausted the Revolution and its aftermath and has
                    turned to the War of 1812, and the book under review is only one of perhaps a dozen volumes to
                    appear in the past few years. Where it differs from the others is its attempt at
                    synthesis—a short, general account of the causes of the war and the diplomacy of the
                    peace. The author, Patrick C. T. White, cites to documents in the Public Record Office of Great
                    Britain and to numerous writings of contemporary Americans, public and private. He contends that the
                    Americans faced in the British Government an enemy that was almost implacable, that the British had
                    decided that their European problems came first and that American interests had to work themselves
                    out within the larger arrangements—such as the Orders in Council—for British
                    national security. The author does not hold a brief for the diplomacy of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , which he remarks contained too much hope and not enough practicality. But he believes
                    that the War of 1812 had a good result because it showed the British they could not step on the
                    Americans, and that "the new freedom from the Old World provided the 
                        United States
                     with an impetus for growth that might otherwise not have existed" (p. 167).
            The above quotation, part of the book's penultimate sentence, points to one of the
                    difficulties of this volume—for White has written the book as collateral reading for
                    college undergraduates, and no undergraduate  will go through
                    this sort of prose with any feeling of interest not to mention enjoyment. For all its outdatedness
                    Henry Adams is far more interesting, a much more likely source of collateral reading. None of the
                    figures in this book comes to life: 
                        Madison
                    , Jefferson, J. Q. Adams, Calhoun, 
                        Clay
                    . One recalls the lament of Theodore Roosevelt before he gave his presidential address
                    to the American Historical Association in 1912, that he was going to tell the historians that
                    history was literature and, he added, they were not going to believe it. After fifty-four years has
                    that message still failed to get through?
            The reviewer must make one other observation, in regard to sources. White has a curious method of
                    citing only to Foreign Office documents or to collections of letters or documents or, if he cites a
                    secondary work, it almost always is to that work as the source of a quotation. On two or three
                    occasions he remarks the books of Adams, Burt, Horsman, Bradford Perkins, Pratt, et
                    al., but does not use his footnotes to credit their findings. This is improper, for the notes
                    should show White's sources; it is unbelievable that he ignored the secondary works or used
                    them only as mines for quotations.
            
               Indiana University Robert H. Ferrell
         
         
            
               The Antifederalist Papers. Edited with an introduction by Morton Borden. ([
                        East Lansing
                    ]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1965. Pp. xiv, 258. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            There were many men who, for a variety of reasons that became increasingly murky, objected to the
                    political artistry of the "demi-gods" of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Convention. They may well have been a majority, yet they have received little attention
                    from American scholars until recently. They have been passed over, one suspects, simply because they
                    were on the losing side; but after reading these essays it seems reasonable to conclude that their
                    argumentation and debate, by and large, are no match for those of their opponents and that it is for
                    this reason that they have been overlooked. Certainly these Antifederalist essays are inferior to
                    the 
                  Madison, Hamilton
               , and Jay productions of 1788. There are exceptions and
                    ironically the exceptions were the work of well-to-do and well-educated men like George Mason, R. H.
                    Lee, and Robert Yates. Anti-Beardians have led us to suspect as much for some time. Together with
                    Jackson Main's recent study, The Antifederalists, this collection of
                    generally tedious and repetitious essays gives us a view in depth of just what it was that stirred
                    the hearts and souls of the "un-Founders" of the Republic.
            The Antifederalists objected to the elasticity of the Constitution, to what they could not be
                    hoodwinked into believing was a nice balance between state and national governments, to the
                    aristocratic overtones of a long-term Senate and a monarchical presidency, and to the tactics of
                    opponents who would countenance talk of lifetime appointments behind closed doors and then publicly
                    proclaim themselves Federalists. They believed that the state governments had been set on the road
                         to virtual extinction. Furthermore, they even believed that
                    an excise tax would follow hard upon ratification and that armed coercion might be its concomitant.
                    They also saw with surprising clarity that the proposed Supreme Court would exercise the power of
                    judicial review of national legislation without any check upon its authority that could be
                    anticipated. If the bulk of their followers were modest farmers, the uneducated, and the politically
                    naive, the authors themselves were not.
            The editor has unfortunately attempted to match copy for each of the eighty-five Federalist essays.
                    The overlapping of subject matter by men who followed no concerted plan of organization or rebuttal
                    makes this a volume of something less than sustaining interest. Borden's notes are few and
                    far between, and it is regettable that the table of contents does not list the authors, either by
                    given names or by pseudonyms. "Brutus" was perhaps the best of them and should not
                    be missed. He may be located only by resort to the index. Students who would understand both sides
                    in the great debate of 1788 will want to read various of these essays, particularly numbers 1, 10,
                    17, 21–22, 32–33, 35, 38, 50, 78–82, 84–85. Despite the
                    tedium involved it will prove worth the effort of ferreting out the best arguments of the
                    Antifederalist writers.
            
               
                  
                            Wabash
                         College Stephen G. Kurtz
         
         
            
               The Second American Party System: Party Formation in the Jacksonian Era. By
                    Richard P. McCormick. (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1966. Pp. x, 389. Notes, index. $7.50.)
            Richard McCormick's excellent new study of political parties during the Jacksonian era may
                    be the most significant publication on that period for many years to come. His purpose is to explain
                    the genesis and character of the second American party system—the first one having risen
                    in the 1790's and disintegrated after 1815—in the quarter century from the
                    election of 1824 to the Great Debate of 1850. He succeeds in doing this very well indeed. The
                    disarray of personal politics that brought the second Adams to power is the starting point, the ways
                    in which a vigorous two-party system developed are the main topics of interest, and the
                    intensification of the slavery issue marks the close of the story.
            McCormick examines the structure, the operation, the techniques of the Democratic and the Whig
                    parties, state by state, in four sections: New 
                        England
                    , the Middle Atlantic, the South, and the West. The result is local history at its best
                    (the book won the award of the Association for State and Local History for 1964), since it shows so
                    well the indispensability of aligning generalizations about the national scene with the distinctive
                    settings in individual states. Still it also shows how fragile such generalizations are. McCormick
                    has had to rely upon secondary references a good deal because of the vast size of the canvas he
                    paints, and for some states that literature is quite inadequate. Nevertheless he has also used much
                    primary material, particularly  newspapers and state archives.
                    So the expert on a particular state will at once be impressed by the research and annoyed by errors
                    that may have been unavoidable. The difficulty of the project stands out most boldly as one looks at
                    the heart of the book: the compilation of voting statistics in relation to the numbers of eligible
                    voters and of adult white males. It is a matter of making an educated
                    guess—interpolating, for example, the population in 1834 from the census figures for 1830
                    and 1840. Besides, how many legitimate votes were actually cast? Plural voting, wholesale fraudulent
                    practices, faulty returns, and skimpy records, all make a statistic something less than a scientific
                    fact.
            In the successive sections on the growth of the two-party system in each state and in the
                    illuminating final chapter on the nature of that system, the author's findings are
                    abundantly clear. Foremost among them is the thesis that one cannot understand the character of
                    either party at any time without reference to the legal-constitutional environment of the particular
                    state in which it evolved. Thus in 
                        Virginia
                    , parties assumed special personalities because of severe suffrage requirements until
                    mid-century, a county basis of voting that made travel to the polls difficult, the possibility of
                    one man casting several votes in the same election, and the dominant position of Thomas
                    Ritchie's "
                        Virginia
                     Junto." Or in 
                        Louisiana
                     there was the persistent conflict of French and English-American groups that strongly
                    influenced party politics. Another conclusion is the close correlation of party development and the
                    intensity of presidential contests. For instance, 1828 and 1832 were years of relatively light
                    voting—and underdeveloped parties—while 1840 was the opposite. In the former
                    years about one-half of the eligibles voted; in the latter campaign, about four-fifths. By 1840,
                    then, party development was complete. Voter participation, made possible by liberal suffrage
                    requirements, rose sharply as two vigorous parties battled for the presidency. And new techniques
                    had appeared: the convention system (propounded by such leaders as Stephen A. Douglas as a
                    democratic reform), the tireless work of innumerable committees from the national level down to
                    local districts, an enlarged role of the newspapers, and colorful and popularized campaigns, best
                    illustrated by the Log-Cabin mania.
            Despite the book's excellence there are some prominent faults. A leading weakness is the
                    tedious style of writing that marches onward mechanically from election to election but is seldom
                    alleviated by a graceful or humorous passage. His informative research on voting statistics does not
                    come through to the reader as it might have if he had included statistical tables—really
                    an inexcusable omission. Furthermore he concentrates so heavily on party organization that he gives
                    little weight to the influence of ideas upon politics, or it may be that he thinks they had little
                    influence. Finally, he pays no attention to the proven importance of parties in the governmental
                    process. Indeed, by mere statement he says that parties do not and cannot govern in
                    America—overlooking the president's dual status as chief executive and head of
                    his party, as well as the vital functions of parties in Congress.
            On balance, McCormick has written a highly useful book. Nothing else in print on Jacksonian parties
                    provides such rich detail  and wise analysis. It builds on
                    specialized state studies, of course, but one of its most beneficial effects may be the stimulus it
                    will give to additional investigation of party history for those states so far neglected.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               The Right to Vote: Politics and the Passage of the Fifteenth Amendment. By
                    William Gillette. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins Press, 1965. Pp. 181. Frontispiece, notes, tables, bibliography,
                    index. $4.50.)
            Until the appearance of this volume most writings on the Fifteenth Amendment contained familiar and
                    widely accepted interpretations regarding its framing, passage, objectives, and historical
                    significance. The amendment was depicted as the work of Radical Republicans whose chief concern was
                    to secure for their party the votes of southern Negroes; and it was a failure because southern
                    whites succeeded in rendering it ineffectual.
            Now, nearly a century after enactment, and over fifty years after the last special study of the
                    amendment, Gillette presents a fresh interpretation which falls in line with recent revisionist
                    literature on Reconstruction. He contends that the formulation and passage of the Fifteenth
                    Amendment was achieved by political and constitutional moderates. Of particular importance was the
                    work of moderate Republicans who became convinced that their party's future depended upon
                    the support of northern Negroes. Thus the enfranchisement of northern Negroes, who could control the
                    balance of political power in a number of key states, was the primary objective of the amendment.
                    The secondary objective was the protection of southern Negroes against losing the vote they had been
                    given by the newly adopted state constitutions. The amendment's wording, Gillette believes,
                    reflects the purpose of moderates to insert right-to-vote provisions into the constitution without
                    destroying state control over elections. He disagrees with those who have condemned the amendment
                    for failing to accomplish its objectives, pointing out that the weakness lay not in the provisions,
                    but in the failure to enforce them. From the vantage point of 1965 the author views the amendment as
                    a "fusion of power and justice" (p. 165) which marks a giant stride toward the
                    ultimate goal of universal suffrage.
            Gillette's study, the purpose of which is "to tell the story of how and why the
                    Fifteenth Amendment came to be" (p. 14), is strictly a political history. Adequate
                    attention is given to debates involving racism, states rights, and limited versus universal male
                    suffrage, but there is no attempt to analyze attitudes or activities of social, religious, or
                    economic groups. The author's research focuses primarily on the Congressional
                        Globe, records of state legislatures, newspapers, and manuscripts of leading politicians.
                    What emerges is essentially a study in practical politics, with emphasis on such factors as party
                    power,  legislative timing, required ratification, and
                    influential personalities. The author gives special credit to President Ulysses S. Grant, who
                    endorsed the amendment in his first inaugural address, and to Senator Oliver P. Morton, who worked
                    assiduously to secure ratification by four southern states and his own state of Indiana.
            Mention must be made of the author's difficult and generally graceless style, of tedious
                    repetition, and of too many long, awkward sentences. But Gillette preesnts a timely and much-needed
                    reevaluation of the Fifteenth Amendment, and his study is a significant contribution to the
                    literature on Reconstruction.
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University Frederick D. Williams
         
         
            
               The Spanish Heritage in the 
                            United States
                        . By Darío Fernández-Flórez. (Madrid:
                    Publicaciones Españolas, 1965. Pp. 362. Illustrations, maps, appendices, bibliography,
                    index.)
            The general format and the numerous illustrations of this volume suggest an official guidebook, an
                    impression which is strengthened at the end by a photograph of West Point cadets admiring the
                    Spanish pavilion at the recent 
                        New York
                     World's Fair. The author conducts an extensive and carefully selected tour
                    through the Spanish Conquest, emphasizing colorful episodes which took place in North America, and
                    gives his followers glimpses of colonial 
                        Florida
                    , New 
                        Mexico
                    , and 
                        California
                    . Then he passes on to the nineteenth century, reviews the Hispanic vogue in American
                    literature exemplified by Washington Irving, William H. Prescott, and others, and concludes with
                    brief examinations of such topics as the teaching of Spanish in American schools and Spanish
                    influences on American architecture and painting. After the Conquest the topics tend to be bland
                    rather than controversial. 
                        Cuba
                    , a major focus of Spanish-American relations through the whole nineteenth century, is
                    not even listed in the index. Since the book comes to us from Franco's 
                        Spain
                    , one need not be surprised that such evidences of Spanish
                    "influences" as the Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     Brigade and For Whom the Bell Tolls are also overlooked.
            The author has set out to whitewash the "Black Legend" wherever it still remains,
                    suggesting by innuendo that, compared to the later imperialism of the 
                  United States, Spain
               's record
                    was not so bad after all. This thesis has certain merits, but Fernández-Flórez
                    has pushed it too far. Thus he disposes of the Battle of Cajamarca with a sentimental poem on
                    constancy, suggests that Las Casas was paranoiac, and remarks delicately that "some weak
                    races, such as the Carib Indians, suffered severe perturbation with the coming of the
                    conquest" (p. 32). On one page he writes of "the glorious and well-deserved
                    zenith" of the Spanish empire in the eighteenth century and on the next page of
                    "the expansionist greed of the 
                        United States
                    " in the nineteenth century (pp. 173, 174). At another point he interrupts an
                    account of a Negro companion of Alvar Nuñez Cabeza de Vaca to scold the 
                        United States
                     for its "Jim Crowism" against the Mexicans.
            
            The most attractive feature of the book is its numerous maps and engravings from the colonial period.
                    It contains a long and useful bibliography, which probably gives undue emphasis to older titles.
                    There are remarkably few typographical errors, although Herbert E. Bolton's classic on 
                        Florida
                     and 
                        Texas
                     appears as The Spanish Wonderlands—possibly a Freudian
                    slip.
            
               Indiana University David M. Pletcher
         
         
            
               Individual Freedom and the Economic Organization of Agriculture. By Harold F.
                    Breimyer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1965. Pp. vi, 314. Notes, tables, index. $6.50.)
            This book needed to be written, and Harold Breimyer was well-qualified to write it. The author drew
                    on his varied experiences in the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture and in the Council of Economic Advisers to prepare this
                    volume. While much of the analysis is at a sophisticated level, the illustrations and applications
                    are down to earth. The narrative moves smoothly and the style is easy.
            The traditional American agriculture of a generation ago writhes under death pangs as it sheds its
                    simpler, agrarian past and emerges into the more complex forms of the technological and commercial
                    world of today. Neither the demise of the old nor the birth of the new is easy.
            The first section of the book deals with the concept of individual freedom in an agricultural
                    setting. The agrarian philosophy that under-girds traditional agriculture places a high value on
                    such institutions as family farm, owner-operation, low tenancy, and that poorly defined thing we
                    call freedom. A substantial body of thought has maintained in former years that these institutions,
                    expressing themselves through their traditional social and political values, have been the
                    wellspring of social and political stability in our entire society.
            In today's transition to commercial agriculture and concentrated agri-business, many of the
                    traditional attributes of agriculture are under pressure, and the values growing out of them are
                    shaky. Much of the struggle in agricultural policy is concerned with an attempt to preserve the
                    traditional social and political values of an essentially agrarian society, while we project our
                    farmers into the commercial pattern of our urban and heavily industrial world in which the modern
                    farmer must operate. To accomplish this trick requires more finesse than anyone has demonstrated to
                    date, or than the author suggests.
            Not only is the traditional on-the-farm independence of the farm operator threatened; but also
                    various groups are experimenting with new systems or organization, such as contractual
                    integration—both vertical and horizontal, new and larger cooperatives, bargaining
                    associations, withholding actions, and the like.
            Today's economic pressures for change in agriculture are compelling. To resist them in the
                    name of individual fredom, for example, is often to forego the chance for increased earnings and
                    higher living levels associated with modern large-scale and often integrated business organization.
                    We may one day decide that many of our most cherished  personal
                    values, customs, and institutions, which were essentially forged in an agrarian setting, may not be
                    very useful in our modern urban-industrial society.
            In another section, the author shows the growing interdependence between farmers and the economic
                    institutions of present-day agriculture. It is made clear that the concept of total independence of
                    farmers is a delusion; that the modern farm is really involved in an intricate network of complex
                    relationships. The farmer is dependent upon—and often at the mercy of—a
                    multiplicity of services outside his line fences. Some of these are performed by farmers'
                    cooperatives, some by private or corporate entrepreneurs, and some through the activities of
                    government.
            There is growing pressure on the small "independent" unit, in which the farmer
                    combines in one person the functions of owner, operator, and manager, and uses the market exchange
                    to conduct his relations with his suppliers and his markets. Various forms of integration and
                    contractual agreements are invading agriculture, with their inevitable erosion of some of the
                    traditional freedom and independence that have characterized traditional farming.
            The author does not hold these changes to be harmful or undesirable. His analysis of them against the
                    historical prospective of agrarian tradition is stimulating.
            The job is not necessarily to preserve traditional agriculture or its historical traditions and
                    institutions. The challenge is rather to devise a policy for agriculture which will move it into its
                    industrial age and at the same time strengthen the dignity and worth of the individual in it. The
                    author feels this goal is possible of attainment.
            
               Purdue University Earl L. Butz
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Pioneer Editor in 
                            Missouri
                        , 1808–1860. By William H. Lyon. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1965. Pp. vi, 202. Notes, index. $5.95.) The Pioneer
                        Editor in 
                            Missouri
                        
                is a very interesting and informative volume. Lyons explains how most pioneer
                    newspapers became intensely partisan in the Jacksonian era, how printers paid their bills, the
                    sources from which material was obtained for publication, why local information was generally
                    ignored, why frontier editors offered only a limited view of pioneer society, why pioneer papers
                    generally had very meagre circulation, and the like. He also provides numerous examples of the
                    vitriolic and vituperative language which 
                        Missouri
                    's pioneer editors, who at times were even more critical of fellow editors than
                    they were of anyone else, were prone to use. According to Lyons: "There were four agents
                    which fostered the founding of the pioneer journal: the government, which needed to publicize its
                    laws; the politician, who wished to crystallize public opinion; the literate citizenry, who sought
                    information, amusement, and intelligence; and the printer-editor, who had both altruistic and
                    personal motives. Each agent needed the press to effectively participate in society. All four agents
                    seldom, if ever, cooperated as one in establishing a public journal, but a combination of at least
                    two of them was necessary for setting up a pioneer press. It is this last agent, the printer-editor
                    (and his relations with the other three), which is the concern of this study" (P. 7).
            
               Reapportionment in Indiana—A Continuing Struggle. By John S. Waggaman.
                        [Indiana Public Affairs Notes, Vol. VII, No. 4] (
                        Bloomington
                    : Institute of Public Administration, Indiana University, 1965. Pp. 5. Pamphlet, free.)
                    The regular session of the Indiana general assembly early in 1965 was noteworthy for accomplishing
                    reapportionment for both legislative and congressional districts. This concise discussion by John S.
                    Waggaman offers a useful summary of reapportionment struggles and legislation during this session.
                    Its value is enhanced by tabular data and maps containing the legislative and congressional
                    districts that resulted. The sub-title, A Continuing Struggle, is merited because
                    legislative reapportionment achieved by the general assembly in 1963 had been declared
                    unconstitutional shortly before the 1965 regular session commenced, as well as by the fact that the
                    same fate soon befell the legislative reapportionment of early 1965. (In the fall of 1965 a special
                    session of the general assembly developed reapportionment legislation which was shortly thereafter
                    approved by the federal court, but this development occurred after Waggaman's article had
                    been written.)
            
               Diary of the War by Robert S. Robertson. Edited by Charles N. and Rosemary Walker.
                        [Old Fort News, Vol. XXVIII, Nos. 1–4] (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: The 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1965. Pp. 232. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendices, index.
                    Paperbound.) Although Robert S. Robertson served in the Civil War as a New Yorker,  soon after the war's end he became a resident of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     where he lived until his death in 1906. His Civil War diary tells of his military
                    service and experiences from 1861 until 1864, plus an account of a trip to 
                        Virginia
                     in 1865. A lawyer, Robertson became a prominent resident of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . He served as city attorney for the 
                        Summit City
                    , became lieutenant governor of Indiana, and represented the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area in the lower house of Congress. Robertson also became a well-known local
                    historian, and the collection of his historical papers held by the 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society is regarded as one of the society's important holdings.
            
               Guide to Indiana Civil War Manuscripts. By Ann Turner. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission, 1965. Pp. 402. Paperbound.) Distributed
                    posthumously by the Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission, this guide affords summary information
                    about the location of manuscripts pertaining to Indiana and the Civil War. Individual as well as
                    library holdings within Indiana are cited. The entries are organized by regiments with some
                    miscellaneous material added at the end of the volume. The manuscripts listed offer a variety of
                    information ranging from accounts of military life and fighting to imprisonment at Andersonville,
                    minutes of a Soldiers' Aid Society, activities of nursing and care of wounded soldiers in
                    hospitals, letters concerning Negro soldiers, and bounty jumping to politics.
            
               Guide to Manuscripts and Archives in the West 
                            Virginia
                         Collection—Number II, 1958–1962. By F. Gerald Ham.
                    (Morgantown: West 
                        Virginia
                     University Library, 1965. Pp. xiii, 147. Index. Paperbound.) In 1958 the University of
                    West 
                        Virginia
                     Library published a guide to its manuscript and archival material on the
                        Mountain State. This new publication offers a guide to the nearly 600
                    accessions which have been processed since the parent guide. The Foreword indicates that use of the
                    West 
                        Virginia
                     Collection has significantly increased in recent years. The publication of helpful
                    guides such as this one with its rather detailed index is doubtless an important factor in both the
                    increased use and growth of the collection.
            
               Teachers Guide for Living Indiana History. By Leo C. Fay and Lee Ann Morris. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : David-Stewart Publishing Company, Inc., 1965. Pp. 192. Tables, illustrations, graphs,
                    charts, maps, glossary, index.) This book, as its title indicates, is offered as a guide for
                    teachers. Its content suggests that it is intended for use in teaching Indiana history at about the
                    fourth or fifth grade level. In addition to giving a narrative history of Indiana from the Ice Age
                    to the present, it includes numerous illustrations and maps. This volume should encourage increased
                    and more effective teaching of Indiana history in the state's elementary schools.
            
               Directory of Historical Societies and Agencies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        , 1965–1966. (
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.: The American Association for State and Local History, 1965. Pp. 140.
                    Illustrations, index. Paper-  bound, $2.00.) This
                    directory, a biennial publication of the American Association for State and Local History,
                    "is a basic reference work on active historical societies in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . It is intended to help people who wish to utilize the resources and services of the
                    many organizations working to preserve and disseminate knowledge about the past" (Preface).
                    It is organized alphabetically by states and provinces, then likewise by towns or cities, with names
                    of local societies or associations, plus basic information about the latter. County historical
                    societies constitute the bulk of the more than five dozen entries for Indiana, including some which
                    have not been active in the last few years. The Indiana listing also includes a variety of
                    organizations ranging from the Hill Forest Historical Foundation at 
                        Aurora
                    , the Indiana Historical Bureau and the Indiana Historical Society of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the L'Anguille Valley Historical Association of 
                        Logansport
                    , Historic 
                        Madison
                     of 
                        Madison
                    , and the Dig and Delve club of 
                        South Bend
                     to the Zionsville Historical Society of Zionsville.
            
               Legal Aspects of Conscription and Exemption in 
                            North Carolina
                        , 1861–1865. By Memory F. Mitchell. The James Sprunt
                        Studies in History and Political Science, Volume XLVII. (Chapel Hill:
                    University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 103. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $2.50.) This
                    book gives its emphasis to 
                        North Carolina
                     statutes concerning conscription and exemptions therefrom (and their judicial
                    interpretation) during the Civil War. The author's findings indicate that "Many
                    Southerners, born and bred to a philosophy of the Civil War which accepts as fact the idea that all
                    Confederate boys rushed into the conflict with the enthusiasm displayed by Scarlett
                    O'Hara's friends in Gone with the Wind, have not delved deeply
                    into the records of the period" (p. 3). 
                        Mitchell
                     has dug deeply into 
                        North Carolina
                     records and in doing so has found that the Tarheel State faced substantial and
                    continuous problems because of conscription.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
