
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 37, Issue 1, pages 1-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:37+issue:1+year:1941&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Croasdale Painting of Lincoln
            JOHN PERRY PRITCHETT
            
            Every age has its special interests, in history and literature as in other matters. Probably there is
                    no form of history and literature combined which to-day is more popular than biography. The great
                    figures of the past are being scrutinized anew from every angle, and with the aid of every bit of
                    available source material. Part of this interest in individuals is scientific in its origin; but
                    part, too, is based on hero-worship, on the admiration and affection which normal men bestow upon
                    the lives and the personalities of the great. Among those figures in the history of the 
                        United States
                     who have been honored in this way in recent years, none is more outstanding or more
                    widely-revered, than that of the Great Emancipator, Abraham Lincoln. An age which is vividly
                    conscious of the priceless value of democracy, and of the liberty upon which democracy is based, has
                    not been careless of Lincoln's memory, but has labored painstakingly to recover and
                    preserve all the facts and all the objects which throw light upon his career. In view of these
                    circumstances, it is not difficult to understand that the material is exhausted more easily than the
                    zeal of the searchers; and that, as the field of inquiry is picked clean, any last straw of evidence
                    is pounced upon with a new eagerness. Under these conditions, facts and objects which might easily
                    have escaped attention at a time when interest was less keen, or source-material less exhausted,
                    take on a new and greater attractiveness. It is this state of affairs in the field of Lincolniana
                    which makes it possible that the Lincoln-loving public might welcome an account of a painting
                    hitherto practically unknown—the Elizabeth Croasdale painting of Abraham Lincoln.
            Until recently,1 the Croasdale painting hung in the ancestral 
                  
                     1 September, 1936.
               
                    home of the Croasdale family in 
                  New Britain, Pennsylvania
               .
                    Outside that home, neither the painting nor the artist seems to have been well known in recent
                    years. Members of the Croasdale family of today maintain that the picture which bears their name was
                    painted in the year 1861, from life, by Elizabeth Croasdale. The work is an oil painting on canvas,
                    twenty-five inches wide and thirty inches in length. At the time of writing, it is in an excellent
                    state of preservation. Apparently, the background in the picture has been restored, but the face and
                    the body do not appear to have been altered. The present owner is Dr. Arthur Edwin Bye, artist, of
                    Byecroft, Holicong, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Dr. Bye purchased the painting in the Fall of 1936 from Mrs. Robert Croasdale Wood,
                    the widow of a nephew of Elizabeth Croasdale, and an occupant of the Croasdale home in 
                        New Britain
                    . Mrs. Wood affirms the family tradition that the painting was never exhibited,
                    published, or sold. There is no signature or other mark on either the face or the back of the work
                    by which its origin might be evidenced.
            Of the artist herself, little enough is known. There is a brief note on "E.
                    Croasdale" in the Dictionary of American Painters, Sculptors and
                    Engravers, by Mantle Fielding; but so little was the author of the note acquainted with his
                    subject, that he assumed "E. Croasdale" to be a man. The Fielding-note on E.
                    Croasdale reads: "Portrait painter. He [sic] painted a portrait of
                    Abraham Lincoln and on the back of the canvas is inscribed ‘Painted by E. Croasdale, and
                    retouched by S. J. Ferris, 1863.’ " Clearly there is nothing here that could not
                    have been learned by examining the picture referred to. Apparently the author of the note had
                    nothing to guide him except a portrait, or a description of a portrait. From other sources it
                    appears that Elizabeth Croasdale was a daughter of an old 
                        Quaker
                     family of 
                        Bucks County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; that she was a graduate of the Government Art Training School, South Kensington, 
                        London
                    ; and that from the year 1873 until 1885 she was Principal of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     School of Design. Among the five 
                        Philadelphia
                     artists who are known to have made paintings of Abraham Lincoln from life, Elizabeth
                    Croasdale is not listed.
            These are the facts in brief about the painting and the artist. They are very scanty and, in regard
                    to the painting, leave unanswered many questions which might be raised.  What was the exact date of the work? Was it from life? Was it from a
                    photograph? Was it partly from life and partly from a photograph? Was it from several photographs?
                    Was it from another portrait? From several other portraits? Did Elizabeth Croasdale paint two
                    portraits of Lincoln? Was one a copy of the other, and, if so, which is the painting owned by Dr.
                    Bye? These problems cannot be resolved from the external evidence available. Perhaps some light may
                    be thrown upon them by an examination of the internal evidence.
            First, the question of the date. The most definite source concerning the time when the painting was
                    done is the family tradition, which puts it in the year 1861. This tradition, however, is perhaps
                    not very strong, because it has been transmitted through a relative, by marriage, of the Croasdale
                    family. Since there is no apparent reason for an error in the family tradition relative to the date,
                    unless forgetfulness, the year 1861 would be accepted without question were it not for internal
                    evidence. It is true that the painting could have been done as early as 1861, because, while Lincoln
                    wore no beard before his election in 1860, he began to grow a beard soon afterwards and had already
                    developed a considerable growth as early as January, 1861, as may be seen in the German photograph
                    of that month. The length of the beard, and especially the expression of the face, suggest strongly
                    that the painting was done later, probably in 1863 or 1864. The eyes and the beard, for example,
                    conform rather closely to those displayed in the Brady photograph of February 9, 1864, the
                    photograph declared by Robert Lincoln "to be the most satisfactory likeness" of
                    his father.
            A statement that the painting was done in 1863 or 1864, however, would have to be qualified by the
                    condition, "if it were done from life." Because the same tradition which
                    represents the painting as a portrait from life, declares it to have been done in 1861; and while it
                    may be more difficult for tradition to preserve a date correctly, than to carry such a fact as a
                    painting having been done from life, nevertheless the rejection of the date 1861 seriously
                    undermines the validity of the rest of the tradition. To the extent that we may doubt that the
                    painting was done from life, to that extent must we believe, in the absence of other evidence, that
                    it may have been done even later than 1863  or 1864, even,
                    perhaps, after Lincoln's death. We know that Elizabeth Croasdale was living as late as the
                    year 1885. In that year, she gave up her position as Principal of the 
                        Philadelphia
                    School of Design on account of poor health. It is reasonable to suppose that Elizabeth
                    Croasdale would not be likely to paint pictures then or later. So the year 1885 may be taken as the
                    latest probable limit for the time in which the painting may have been done. This is not to suggest
                    that it was done later than the 'sixties. It is merely to point out a
                    possibility opened up by a questioning of the tradition that the painting was done in the year 1861,
                    and from life. The fact that there is evidence of the existence of an Elizabeth Croasdale painting
                    of Lincoln inscribed with the date "1863," tends to confirm the suggestion that
                    the painting which is known was also done in the early 'sixties. It indicates that
                    Elizabeth Croasdale was interested in, and working upon the Lincoln figure at that time; and it
                    strengthens the probability established by the family tradition, that the painting at issue was
                    produced in the year 1861 or not many years later.
            The fixing of the date of the painting, then, depends to a considerable extent upon the answer to the
                    question: "Was the painting done from life?" Here, again, the strongest argument
                    derives from the family tradition. In was observed above that a rejection of the year 1861 as the
                    date of the painting would weaken the validity of the rest of the tradition, but it does not destroy
                    it. In the absence of opposing evidence, the contention that the painting was done from life would
                    have to be accepted. There is no external evidence to show that the work was not done from life.
                    There is, first of all, no evidence from the life of Lincoln. As was noted above, at least five 
                        Philadelphia
                    artists are known to have made portraits of him. May there not have been a sixth? There
                    is nothing positive to oppose the suggestion. An argument drawn from lack of evidence would have
                    little force in view of the facts that Lincoln often sat for a portrait and that the matter was not
                    always one of sufficient importance to be made note of by contemporaries. Nor is there any other
                    external evidence which makes it probable or improbable that the painting was from life. What
                    evidence there is makes it possible, but only possible, that Lincoln sat for the painting. In this
                    connection it may be worth  noting that the fact that Elizabeth
                    Croasdale was Principal of the 
                        Philadelphia
                    School of Design from 1873 to 1885, in a city where five other artists made portraits of
                    Lincoln, is favorable to the contention that her painting was from life. It should also be observed
                    that Stephen J. Ferris who, according to Mantle Fielding, retouched a painting of Lincoln by
                    Elizabeth Croasdale in the year 1863, was scarcely the type of artist who would spend his time,
                    while Lincoln was alive and being painted and photographed with comparative frequency, retouching a
                    picture which was not from life. On the other hand, Ferris was a young man, only twent-yeight years
                    of age, at the time, who did not gain his greatest prominence until some years afterwards. There is
                    the possibility, of course, that the painting retouched by Ferris was from life and that the one
                    which is known today is a copy of the other. It is clear from the meager sources available that
                    there is nothing in the external evidence which militates against the known Croasdale painting being
                    from life.
            As to the conclusion which should be drawn from internal evidence, there is a division of opinion
                    among the authorities who have examined the picture or photographs of it. First, what are the
                    arguments of the proponents? The chief and, indeed, the only weighty argument from internal evidence
                    advanced by those who contend that the painting was done from life, is that there exists no known
                    photographs or portraits from which it was evidently copied. It may be stated, too, that the
                    opposing authorities, those who think the painting a copy, practically admit the truth of the last
                    statement. A list of those who make up what may be called "the affirmative" will
                    show how thoroughly the field has been searched for a possible original photograph or portrait.
                    First, there is Dr. Bye, the present owner. Dr. Bye is not officially an authority on Lincolniana,
                    but as owner of the picture, as an artist, and as one professionally concerned with the restoration
                    of old masters, he is fitted both by interest and training to give an authoritative opinion on the
                    subject. Dr. Bye is convinced that the painting is from life. Secondly, there is Dr. Louis A.
                    Warren, director of the Lincoln National Life Foundation at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . He has assured Dr. Bye that he knows of no picture closely resembling the Croasdale
                    painting, and that he, therefore, believes the latter to have 
                    been done from life. Dr. 
                        Warren
                    's opinion is all the more valuable because he has made a 'special
                    study of Lincoln portraits and photographs. Thirdly, there is Mr. Benjamin P. Thomas, executive
                    secretary of the Abraham Lincoln Association. Mr. Thomas, having compared the Croasdale painting
                    with photographs, is "inclined to think that the opinion of the Croasdale family that it
                    was painted from life may be correct. " Finally, the Custodian of the Lincoln Collection at 
                        Brown
                     University, Miss Esther C. Cushman, while not committing herself as to whether the
                    painting was done from life, after making a careful study of the photographs of Lincoln in her care,
                    has agreed that there is none from which the picture seems to have been copied. It may be observed,
                    in connection with all these opinions, that attention has been concentrated entirely on the
                    resemblance of the Croasdale painting to photographs and portraits. No other approach to the
                    internal evidence is suggested.
            Practically the same is true of those opinions which have been given against the family claim that
                    the painting was done from life. The most important of these pronouncements are those made by
                    Frederick H. Meserve, Harry McGill Bland and Rufus Rockwell Wilson. All these men are outstanding
                    authorities on pictures of Lincoln. Mr. Meserve has made a vast collection of photographs concerning
                    the whole Lincoln period. Mr. Wilson has published a volume on Lincoln in
                    Portraiture. Mr. Bland is reputed to be the greatest living authority on the paintings of
                    Lincoln. They unite in the belief that the Croasdale painting was not done from life. True they give
                    no particular reasons in support of this opinion; but their opinion, as such, is probably the most
                    weighty that could be secured on a basis of an examaniation of the internal evidence. On the other
                    hand, they fail to point to any photograph from which the Croasdale likeness might have been copied.
                    Mr. Meserve's verdict on this latter point is especially important, owing to his exhaustive
                    study and collection of Lincoln and other photographs.
            One more opinion, quite neutral as to other matters, may be given on the subject of a photographic
                    origin of the Croasdale painting. Harry E. Pratt, executive secretary of the Abraham Lincoln
                    Association, when asked by Dr. Bye for information which might help solve the question of the origin
                    of the Croasdale painting in 1836, replied: "I have 
                    looked through all our data here in the office and that of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Hist. Soc. and do not find anything that would aid you in identifying the picture
                    you mention." It may be said then, that everyone who has given an opinion on the subject
                    has agreed that there is no evidence which goes to show that the Croasdale painting was copied from
                    a photgraph.
            In connection with the question of resemblances between the painting and any particular photograph,
                    an interesting view was expressed by Dr. Louis A. 
                        Warren
                    : "The finding of it [a photograph of Lincoln from which the painting may seem
                    to have been copied] would not necessarily imply that the painting is not from life as nearly all of
                    the painters did have photographs made of their subjects in order to assist them in the making of
                    their canvas." This is a strong argument in support of the validity of the Croasdale
                    tradition that the picture was done from life, because it destroys any finality that might otherwise
                    be possessed by a judgment based on the finding of a photograph even closely resembling the
                    painting. The finding of such a photograph might suggest strongly that the painting was only a copy,
                    but without the support of other evidence, it could never be taken as definitive proof.
            The same observation applies in the case of a suggested multiple photographic origin of the Croasdale
                    painting. If Elizabeth Croasdale used one photograph to assist her in painting Lincoln from life,
                    she might just as easily have used several. That there are similarities existing between the
                    painting and several known photographs, is quite true. For instance, the outline of hair and beard
                    is similar to that in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     photograph of November 15, 1863. The collar and shirt resemble those in the Brady
                    ambrotype of February 27, 1860. It was observed above that parts of the figure in the
                    painting—the expression of the eyes and beard—are like the corresponding parts
                    in Brady's photograph of February, 1864, but it is easy to push such comparisons too far.
                    It would be strange if one portrait of a man should not bear many resemblances to various
                    photographs, especially in the case of a man like Abraham Lincoln, whose careless strength and
                    rugged individuality thrust themselves into every outline and every attitude. Certainly one must
                    guard against over-emphasis on these resemblances.
            
            What is true of comparisons between the Croasdale painting and one photograph or several photographs,
                    is equally true of those made between the painting and any Lincoln portraits. Rufus Rockwell Wilson,
                    for instance, believes that it looks "very much like a copy of the portrait painted by
                    Atwood." Miss Esther C. Cushman, on the other hand, while noting that there is a
                    resemblance between the Atwood portrait and the Croasdale, regards the latter as more like several
                    other portraits, such as that by Lambdin (when reversed), and those by Cogswell and Mathews. Here,
                    again, the conclusion cannot be final. One portrait may resemble another portrait not because it was
                    the sole source of the second, but because it was used as a supplementary aid, or merely because a
                    picture of the same subject, just as may be true of two photographs taken at different times. Here,
                    too, what applies to one portrait, applies equally to a group. As with photographs, so with
                    portraits, no definite conclusions can be drawn from mere resemblances.
            There remains to be discussed the question of whether Elizabeth Croasdale painted two portraits of
                    Lincoln rather than just one. Further, if she painted two, is the known painting the first or second
                    work. The answer to the first of these questions, of course, depends largely on the validity of the
                    note in Mantle Fielding's Dictionary which contains the statement that
                    Elizabeth Croasdale "painted a portrait of Abraham Lincoln and on the back of the canvas is
                    inscribed Tainted by E. Croasdale, and retouched by S. J. Ferris, 1863.’" The
                    details of this inscription are such that they could scarcely have been invented, but must have
                    come, directly or indirectly, from a picture to the author. The use of the word
                    "portrait" in the note, however, has no great significance in respect to whether
                    the painting was from life. It would be natural enough for anyone who knew so little of "E.
                    Croasdale" as to assume that the artist was a man, to take for granted that the painting
                    was from life and use the word "portrait" in describing it. There is room,
                    however, for little or no doubt that a picture bearing the above inscription exists or once existed.
                    It is possible, but not at all probable, that the inscription was mistakingly put on a painting
                    which was not done by E. Croasdale. It is equally improbable that the inscription quoted by Mantle
                    Fielding was once present on the known painting and later erased.
            
            Aside from these rather far-fetched possibilities and the equally untenable one that the known
                    painting was not done by Elizabeth Croasdale, the evidence all points to the strong possibility that
                    Elizabeth Croasdale painted two pictures of Abraham Lincoln. This conclusion is supported, in the
                    first place, by the facts that the inscription in the Fielding note describes the changes made in
                    the painting after it had left the artist's hands as a "retouching,"
                    whereas in the known painting, as Dr. Bye says, the background has been damaged and restored, but
                    the face and body have not been altered. A "retouching" implies additions, more
                    probably to the figure, and could scarcely be construed as meaning a restoration after damage.
                    Stronger evidence that there were two Croasdale paintings of Lincoln is the existence of a half-tone
                        print,2 which apparently has been cut from a sale catalogue, because it is
                    listed as "lot No. 10." There is nothing to show from whose catalogue the print
                    was taken, but it resembles the known painting closely. It shows, however, certain differences from
                    the painting which could scarcely be accounted for in the making of a half-tone. When these facts
                    are considered in conjunction with others which are known, the existence of a second Croasdale
                    painting becomes almost certain. In the first place there is the note in Mantle Fielding's
                        Dictionary, with the inscription which is not found on the known painting.
                    Next, there is the family conviction that the painting which they possessed had never been removed
                    from the house, published or sold before the year 1936. Finally, there is Mr.
                    Meserve's-"recollection of having been told that a 
                        Philadelphia
                    dealer was trying to sell a portrait of Abraham Lincoln alleged to be from life by
                    Elizabeth Croasdale." All these facts would be accounted for if there were two Croasdale
                    paintings, one inscribed, one not inscribed; one put up for sale, one not put up; one published in
                    the form of a half-tone print in a sale catalog as early as the year 1926; the other not published
                    or offered for sale for another ten years or thereabouts. Against the conclusion that two Croasdale
                    paintings were made, there are only two weak arguments: one the improbability that, because having
                    painted one portrait of Lincoln, she would not paint a second; and the 
                  
                     2 This print is in the Lincoln Collection in 
                                Brown
                             University Library.
               
                     other, that were the inscribed portrait in existence, it would
                    be well-known and available.
            If, as thus seems likely, Elizabeth Croasdale made two paintings of Lincoln, which was done first,
                    and which is more likely to have been done from life? Here answers must be in the realm of almost
                    pure surmise. It may be assumed, however, with a certain degree of probability, that if either
                    painting was from life, it was more likely the first one done; because this conclusion involves a
                    simpler assumption than the other. In other words, it is a more complicated and therefore less
                    plausible assumption that Elizabeth Croasdale first painted Lincoln from photographs or portraits,
                    and afterwards from life, than that she painted him from life and then simply made a copy or another
                    version of her own work. It would seem, then, though the matter is close to pure conjecture, that,
                    if two paintings were done and one was from life, it was the first and not the second, which was
                    done from life. As to which of these two possible pictures the known painting is, it can only be
                    said that the evidence points almost equally both ways, perhaps a little more strongly to its being
                    the one first painted. The family tradition puts the known painting in 1861. The date on the
                    inscribed portrait was 1863. But the Lincoln in the known painting looks more like the real Lincoln
                    of later years; and because the inscribed portrait was marked 1863 is not evidence that it was
                    painted in 1863, but only evidence that S. J. Ferris retouched it at that time. It would not help
                    matters to know who wrote the inscription. It may be said here that, after all the evidence has been
                    sifted, there is really nothing of great weight opposed to the tradition of the Croasdale family
                    that the painting which they preserved was done in the year 1861 by Elizabeth Croasdale and from
                    life. Until further opposing evidence appears, that tradition will not, apparently be seriously
                    undermined.
            There remain a few more questions connected with the Croasdale painting which it might be appropriate
                    to discuss here. These questions are concerned with the artistic and the historical values of the
                    picture, and with the quality of Elizabeth Croasdale's work. As to the value of the
                    painting as a work of art, curiously enough, most of those who have passed judgment have contented
                    themselves with saying that they thought it a good or a poor picture, or a good or a poor  likeness, without discussing in any way the qualities of the work. A.
                    M. Kennedy, Sunday Editor of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, writes that when the painting was in his hands in 1937 in connection with
                    possible publication on the occasion of Lincoln's birthday, "several critics
                    … consulted considered that the likeness of Lincoln was not good." Mr. Meserve
                    thought that Harry Bland "does not regard the portrait highly." Miss Cushman, on
                    the contrary, thought that "the Croasdale portrait is a very good one." Dr. Bye is
                    more specific, while remaining moderate in his praises. "I do not," says Dr. Bye,
                    "regard the painting as a great work of art. It is sincere, conscientious painting, able
                    and technically well executed. But it makes no claim to penetrating portraiture, or virtuosity. Its
                    chief value is historical or antiquarian. It has been considerably praised by lovers of
                    Lincoln—Collectors of Lincolniana." Dr. Bye says again: "My opinion of
                    the portrait is that it is as good as any I ever saw of Lincoln, better than most. There were so few
                    good portraitists living in Lincoln's time." There is little else to be said here
                    about the artistic qualities of the painting, that being a matter for experts to decide, but it
                    should perhaps be recalled, in connection with the question of the picture's likeness to
                    Lincoln, that it closely resembles in certain respects the Gettysburg photograph of November, 1863,
                    the Brady photograph which Lincoln's son thought "to be the most satisfactory
                    likeness" of his father.
            What of Elizabeth Croasdale's ability as an artist? Was it such as to enable her to paint a
                    good picture, or a picture as good as the one which bears her name? Unfortunately, at this time,
                    there is available none of her other work on which a judgment might be based. In the absence of such
                    material, we may again quote from Dr. Bye. "In any event," he writes, "E.
                    Croasdale was not an eminent artist. Just a good example of her time, good enough to be a teacher
                    way back in the days when artists were few." More significant on this point is her later
                    career. Her appointment to the position of Principal of the 
                        Philadelphia
                    School of Design points, in the absence of other evidence, to the probability that she
                    was a reasonably good artist. There is nothing in her career, either as a student or a teacher,
                    which is out of keeping with the quality of work which appears in the Croasdale painting.3
            
            
               
                  3 A few comments on Elizabeth Croasdale's work as a teacher and
                        on the character of her education, made by Theodore C. Knauff in
            
            
            Passing from the artist to the picture, it may be said that the chief value of the painting to-day,
                    as Dr. Bye agrees, is historical or antiquarian. "Historical" is probably the
                    better word. If the Croasdale painting is from life, it is, indeed, very valuable. By this is not
                    meant a money value, though Lincoln portraits have brought large sums. It is rather that a painting
                    from life is different from any other sort of reproduction. It gives not only a view, but an
                    impression and an interpretation. If the artist succeeds in producing a work of art, the result is a
                    composition of many things that a photograph cannot catch and that no historian can ever adequately
                    describe. A good portrait is a good likeness, but means more than a mere likeness. It brings out of
                    the subject what may often or usually remain hidden, and it pictures for us as nothing else can, the
                    human soul clothed in flesh and blood. Of this quality, there seems to be not a little in the
                    Croasdale painting. It shows us Lincoln, not amused or genial, as he frequently was, but looking
                    rather stern and somewhat sad, perhaps tired from over-strain, but ercet, and not bending under the
                    strain. It seems to convey the impression of a man with the strength of granite, but not hard or
                    unfeeling, rather the reverse; a man imbued with large and lofty aims, but constant, and full of
                    practical purpose; idealistic, but not excitedly enthusiastic; one who has experienced the tragedy,
                    as well as the greatness, of human life, and has still kept faith with his ideals. This is Lincoln,
                    not at his most amusing, but at his best. It is a rare and a great view of him, and we seem to owe
                    it to Elizabeth Croasdale. That alone should be enough to make the Croasdale painting and its
                    creator of the greatest significance alike to lovers of Lincoln, and to lovers of historical truth.
            If, on the other hand, the painting is not from life, it fails to possess much of the value it would
                    otherwise have. This is not to argue that a great painting cannot be made by 
                  
                     An Experiment in Training for the Useful and Beautiful, A History (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1922), 87, bear out this statement in an indirect way, by conforming with Dr.
                            Bye's estimate of the quality of the work displayed in the Croasdale painting:
                            "The untiring work of Miss Croasdale, who had been trained at the South Kensington
                            Museum in 
                                London
                            , followed the routine of that institution…. The old course in art as
                            in design had placed undue emphasis on and given excessive time to the mechanics and
                            mathematics connected with perspective and geometry."
               
                     working from photographs or other pictures. It simply means that
                    a painting from life is far more closely related historically to its subject than is one not so
                    painted, and, other things being equal, is quite likely to be in many respects more historically
                    true and artistically great. Nevertheless, even if the Croasdale painting is not from life, it is
                    not without great historical significance. It was painted by an artist who was of good ability when
                    capable artists were few, a woman who was living at the same time and in the same country as her
                    subject touched by the same questions and breathing the same atmosphere. No doubt Elizabeth
                    Croasdale had at least seen Lincoln on public occasions, if not privately, and the impressions
                    received on those occasions would, to a trained artist, be of great value in giving life and
                    personality and historical accuracy to a work otherwise copied from pictures. Thus it seems safe to
                    affirm, and the affirmation is borne out by many who have seen the painting and compared its
                    qualities with the established portraits, that the Croasdale likeness, even if it is not from life,
                    compares favorably with those which are known to be from life, and hence, especially until the
                    tradition that it was done from life has been disproved, it ought to be regarded as deserving an
                    honorable position in the company of Lincolniana.
         
         
         
            The Religious Environment of Lincoln's Youth
            JOHN F. CADY
            
            The religious environment to which Abraham Lincoln was subject as a youth has never been adequately
                    explored. The minute book of the Little Pigeon Baptist Church, although repeatedly examined by
                    biographers, has yielded very little. It is concerned for the most part with purely routine matters
                    such as inquiries into the peace of the church, acceptance and dismission of members, and the
                    recording of contributions of various sorts. Now and then a vote on policy is mentioned, or a matter
                    of discipline raised. Except for the appearance of the Lincoln name at a half dozen or so places, it
                    differs in no important particular from scores of similar records of kindred churches of the period
                    that are available. It is, in fact; less significant than many that the writer has examined. The
                    document acquires meaning only in proportion to one's understanding of the general
                    situation prevailing among the Regular Baptist churches of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana of the time. The discovery of the manuscript minute book of the Little
                    Pigeon Association of United Baptists, however, affords a valuable key for relating the Lincoln
                    church to the larger religious context.1
            
            The fact that the local church was of the Regular Baptist variety while the Association of which it
                    was a member carried the name United Baptist requires a word of explanation. Almost all of the early
                    Baptist churches west of the mountains accepted the conventional adaptation of the Calvinistic 
                        Philadelphia
                    Confession, dating from 1765, practically the only formulated creed available to them.
                    They were generally known as Regular Baptist churches, which often meant little more than that they
                    were of the usual sort. Another tradition was also present, however, stemming from the so-called
                    Separate Baptists of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                    . This was to the effect that no creed should be allowed to assume tyrannical control
                    over an individual's conscience, 
                  
                     1 The contents of this article are based on the material contained in
                            a history of the Baptists of Indiana, a study as yet unpublished. The Minute-Book of the
                            Church is entrusted to the custody of the clerk of the Little Pigeon Church, which
                            organization survives in a feeble way as a Primitive Baptist Church. It is difficult of
                            access. The Associational record is accessible in the Library of 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana, along with a large collection of similar documents of the
                        period.
               
                     especially with respect to the doctrine of predestination. A
                    compromise agreement between the Regular and Separate Baptists of 
                        Kentucky
                     was arrived at in 1801 permitting such an escape from strict credal interpretation, on
                    which occasion the name "United Baptist" was employed. Such was the designation of
                    the Little Pigeon Association, although the churches composing it were mostly Regular. The new
                    designation was used more commonly in 
                        Kentucky
                     than in Indiana, but the tradition was the same on both sides of the Ohio
                        River.
               2
            
            The immediate antecedents of the Baptist community of Little Pigeon Creek were to be found in the
                    churches of the 
                        Salem
                     and 
                        Goshen
                     Associations of 
                        Kentucky
                    , located in the vicinity of Thomas Lincoln's early home.3
                    The Little Mount Church, from which Thomas Lincoln brought his letter of membership to Little Pigeon
                    in 1823, was in the 
                        Salem
                     Association. Elder William Downs, who preached the funeral of the infant Tommy Lincoln
                    just before the family migrated to Indiana, was a brother of Elder Thomas Downs, one of the two
                    visting brethren who organized the new church on Pigeon Creek in 1816.4 It is
                    safe, therefore, to assume that conditions obtaining generally among 
                        Kentucky
                     Baptists applied to Little Pigeon Church also.
            Several significant institutional practices and social prejudices prevailed among the 
                        Kentucky
                     brethren. These had originated in the persecutions suffered by their forebears at the
                    hands of the Anglican hierarchy in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     before the Revolutionary War. The early 
                        Kentucky
                     Baptists were, for one thing, belligerently democratic. They insisted upon the absolute
                    freedom of the local congregation from every sort of outside control, whether political or
                    ecclesiastical. Equally deep-seated was their profound distrust for a professionally-trained and
                    salaried ministry. They 
                  
                     2 William W. Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier,
                                the Baptists (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 22–26; John J. 
                                Spencer
                            , A History of the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Baptists (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1886), I, 167–177, 200–212. The Little Pigeon
                            Association appears to be the only body of the kind in Indiana to use the name
                            "United Baptists."
                  
                     3 Little Pigeon Association Minutes for 1821. Directly across the
                                Ohio River from the Indiana counties of Perry and 
                                Spencer
                             was the area of the 
                                Goshen
                             Association, the churches of which were members of the 
                                Salem
                             Association until 1817. The relations between the 
                                Goshen
                             and Little Pigeon associations were intimate.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Spencer
                            , op. cit., I, 50, 110, 163–166, 227, 546, 580; ibid., II, 571–572.
               
                     flatly refused to "hire" their own pastors for
                    wages, although congregations were willing to contribute to the needs of their ministers. All of
                    their elders were untutored. Formal education was considered both dangerous to piety and superfluous
                    as far as preaching was concerned. They reasoned that if God called a man to preach, He would also
                    fill his mouth. It was therefore presumptuous in the extreme to insist that one called to preach
                    must be educated with the wisdom of men.5 Spontaneous utterances were to them
                    more suggestive of the working of the Spirit than were prepared sermons. Under this arrangement
                    pastors must perforce be local or neighboring residents who labored during the week exactly as did
                    the men who sat in the pews.
            For several years after its organization the Little Pigeon Church was in a struggling stage without a
                    meeting house or a regular pastor. When Nancy Hanks Lincoln died in 1818, for example, there was no
                    preacher available at the place to conduct the funeral. A meeting house was finally built in 1822.
                    When Thomas Lincoln united with the Little Pigeon Church in June, 1823, it had only, forty-seven
                    members. The roll was not above sixty persons in 1830.6
            
            The regular monthly business meetings of the church were not without general interest. The practice
                    in all Baptist churches followed the same pattern. All business was transacted on Saturday. The
                    primary routine consideration was the inquiry into the peace of the church. At about half of the
                    meetings, complaints would be raised. The jurisdiction of the church over public offenses involving
                    the violation of the mores of the community and over private differences between members as well had
                    to be acknowledged on pain of exclusion. It was especially commendable, of course, for offenders to
                    bring accusation against themselves for disorderly conduct and to beg forgiveness of the church.
                    Otherwise the church functioned as a court according to well established rules of procedure.7 This frontier Consistory was 
                  
                     5 Wesley M. Gewehr, The Great Awakening in 
                                    Virginia
                                , 1740–1790 (Durham, N.C., 1930), 1–18,
                            173–177; Sweet, op. cit., 36–39, 423, 429. The
                            entire annual budget of a church frequently amounted to about fifteen dollars.
                  
                     6 Little Pigeon Association Minutes for 1823 and 1830.
                  
                     7 Special committees usually investigated unacknowledged accusations.
                            For private differences, "Gospel steps," as set forth in Matthew, XVIII,
                            had to be taken before the matter could be brought before the church. It was considered
                            highly disgraceful for Christian brethren to take matters to law.
               
                     Puritanical and no doubt gossip-mongering at times, but it
                    usually commanded respect. Cases arising were, of course, always interesting to the curious. Thomas
                    Lincoln himself was involved in at least two such episodes. The community was coarse and crude, but
                    the fundamental demands of honesty, sobriety, and sexual morality were sturdily insisted upon here
                    as in other congregations.
            After the business was attended to, the pastor and other elders who might chance to be present took
                    turns in addressing the congregation either by exposition of Scripture or by moral exhortation. The
                    meeting lasted throughout the greater part of the day. Those who came from a distance were
                    "put up" for the night at some near-by cabin. Sunday was devoted exclusively to
                    devotional services, the meeting closing early enough to allow everyone to reach home before dark.
                    On rare occasions when an exceptional interest seemed to be aroused and conditions seemed to warrant
                    it, the meeting might be "protracted" into the following week. Such occasions for
                    Little Pigeon Church were apparently not frequent. The monthly church gathering was an important
                    social affair, affording abundant opportunity for casual talk of crops and politics, for gossip
                    among the women, and for courting among the young folks. Quantities of raw turnips and apples were
                    consumed in season. That young Abe Lincoln attended many such meetings is highly probable.8
            
            The Lincolns obviously did not play a leading rôle in the church. Tom Lincoln was
                    nevertheless recognized as an orderly member, and assumed his share of the duties of the body. He
                    served for three years as trustee, and contributed corn and other recorded items on occasion to
                    defray expenses. He probably helped organize the neighboring Gilead Church.9
                    Abe's step-mother, Sarah Johnson Lincoln, 
                  
                     8 Scores of contemporaneous church records examined attest these
                            facts. See also William E. Barton, The Women Lincoln Loved (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), 112–113; William H. Herndon and Jesse W. Weik, The History and Personal Recollections of Abraham Lincoln (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1889), I, 63–64, 426. (This work was reprinted a few years ago at
                                    
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , by the Herndon's Lincoln
                            Publishing Company, just as in the original, suppressed edition of three volumes. In
                            succeeding references it will be cited as Herndon's Lincoln);
                            John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890), I, 32–33.
                  
                     9 The Little Pigeon Church Minutes do not verify this last item. See
                            Barton, op. cit., 112–113; Roscoe Kiper, Lincoln
                                in Indiana (—, 1929), 9–10.
               
                     joined the church by letter in 1824 and Abe's sister
                    Sarah was received by baptism in 182610
            
            In comparison with the Lincolns the Grigsby family was more prominently active. Reuben Grigsby, with
                    whom Abe in particular was in a state of near feud after the death of his sister Sarah Lincoln
                    Grigsby in 1827, was twice selected as the official messenger of the church to the annual
                    Association in the late twenties. It would be difficult to imagine, in this connection, how the
                    unrepentant author of the "Chronicles of Reuben" could have been an acceptable
                    candidate for membership in a church where the Grigsbys had any influence.
            The last experience which Tom Lincoln had with the Little Pigeon Church was a hang-over from the
                    Grigsby feud. The church letters which were granted Tom and Sarah Lincoln, in November, 1829, were
                    temporarily recalled in the following January, when Nancy Grigsby complained that she was not
                    satisfied with brother and sister Lincoln. The charges were examined by a private council and the
                    letters were promptly restored. Perhaps as an expression of confidence and as a sort of compensation
                    for thus having been spitefully embarrassed, Thomas Lincoln was then given the satisfaction of
                    acting as chairman of a board of five referees who reported adversely on a charge raised by the same
                    troublesome Nancy against another member of the church.11
            
            What were Abe's relations with the church can only be surmised. That he was directly subject
                    to the religious influences of his Indiana environment may be safely assumed. The style of both his
                    public utterances and his prose diction attest his close familiarity with the Scriptures. There is
                    every reason, furthermore, to believe that Abe attended with some degree of regularity the services
                    held in the family church located less than a mile from the Lincoln cabin. The usual sermon which he
                    could have heard there probably did not compete seriously in interest with the books and papers
                    which were his constant companions during his free time. The topics of interest in the Little Pigeon
                    church must have been to him somewhat stuffy and confining as compared with the affairs of the world
                    outside.
            
               
                  10 Little Pigeon Church Minutes for 1823 (June), 1824 and 1826; Herndon's Lincoln, I, 28.
            
            
               
                  11 Little Pigeon Church Minutes, Nov., 1829, to Feb., 1830; Barton, op. cit., 109–110.
            
            
            The supposed widening estrangement which developed between Abe and his stolid unimaginative father
                    during the late twenties, may well be taken as a measure of the youth's lack of sympathy
                    for current religious views. Such a conclusion is supported by facts given below concerning the
                    inter-relation of religion and politics in the community.12 Abe was too
                    easy-going to quarrel openly with his father over religion, but he could not repress his droll sense
                    of humor. Reliable tradition says that at the age of fifteen he was especially fond of repeating the
                    sermons that the preachers gave and mimicking their peculiar intonations and gestures.13
            
            When attention is turned from the church records to that of the Little Pigeon Association, new
                    perspectives appear in the situation. The annual Associational meetings were affairs of some
                    importance. The sessions were invariably held in the late summer or early fall, when roads were more
                    generally passable and work slack. They usually extended through two or three days, and might be
                    "protracted" further. Here assembled the messengers that were sent by the dozen or
                    so member Baptist churches located within a radius of fifteen or twenty miles. Fraternal delegates
                    from other Associations came longer distances. Associations had no power to coerce individual
                    churches. The primary purpose was that of mutual encouragement and fellowship, but not infrequently
                    they pondered serious questions of general policy. The prominence of the church attended by the
                    Lincolns in the Association is reflected in the similarity of name, and in the fact that it was
                    organized at the home of Elder Young Lamar of that church in 1821. A number of the sessions of the
                    Association during the eighteen-twenties were held at the Lincoln church, and Charles Harper,
                    another pastor of that church, was repeatedly chosen moderator. That Abe attended some of the
                    sessions of the body is entirely possible, but whether he did or not, the affairs of concern in the
                    Association throw much light on the character of his family church.
             One of the questions that agitated the Association in the late 'twenties was referred to as
                    "alien immersion." The 
                  
                     12 Charles W. Moores, "Abraham Lincoln, Lawyer," Indiana Historical Society Publications, VII, 483–486; Herndon's Lincoln, I, 34, 44, 62, 63; Barton, op.
                                cit., 105–106; Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln (2
                            vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), I, 65–69.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., I, 71–72, 95–96; Carl Sandburg, Abraham Lincoln, The 
                                    Prairie
                                 Years (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 7–8, 42, 59.
               
                     problem developed because of the presence of other types of
                    immersionist bodies in the vicinity.14 The contention was made that baptism by
                    immersion was not valid if performed by an administrator who entertained heterodox opinions, or who
                    himself had not been properly baptized. The principle would seem to suggest the necessity of an
                    unbroken succession of properly qualified administrators of the ordinance back to John the Baptist
                    himself. The exclusive character of such a position is obvious. Repeated warnings appear in the
                    minutes of the Association concerning the danger of laxity in this matter. The body explicitly ruled
                    on one occasion that immersion at the hands of a Dunkard (Dunker), or any other unorthodox Baptist
                    preacher was unacceptable. Pastor Charles Harper of the Little Pigeon Church was the leader of the
                    conservative party that passed this ruling15
            
            By far the most serious problem which agitated the Association, however, was whether or not to
                    countenance the new system of missionary benevolences which the New 
                        England
                     Baptists were sponsoring. It became a subject of controversy in 1823, and continued as
                    a perennial problem. The missionary organization had been started in the previous decade in response
                    to the appeal of Adoniram Judson from 
                        Burma
                    . It was broadly progressive in character, including such innovations as temperance
                    propaganda, education for ministers, Sunday schools, Indian missions, Bible and tract distribution.
                    Administering the program was a central executive board resident in New 
                        England
                     selected by a Triennial Convention made up of representatives of churches and
                    individuals contributing as much as one hundred dollars annually to their funds. Every Baptist
                    church and Association in the 
                        Ohio
                     valley was urged to open correspondence with the Convention. Where an opportunity could
                    be found, local "mite societies" were organized to solicit funds. Salaried agents
                    toured the more populous areas.16
            
            
               
                  14 Little Pigeon Association minutes for 1828–1831.
               
                  15
                        Ibid. Within the memory of the writer of this article, the issue of alien
                        immersion has been a matter of concern to Missionary Baptist churches in a county adjoining 
                            Spencer County
                        .
               
                  16 Peter G. Mode, The Frontier Spirit in American
                            Christianity (
                            New York
                        , 1923), 15–40; Benajah H. Carroll, Genesis of American
                            Anti-Missionism (
                            Louisville
                        , 1902); Minutes of Laughery, Coffee Creek, and Silver Creek associations for
                        1818–1822. The Triennial Convention and later the 
                            Massachusetts
                         Missionary Society assisted the mission of Isaac McCoy of the Maria Creek Church
                        (near 
                            Vincennes
                        ) to the Indians of Indiana and 
                            Michigan
                        . John F. Cady, "Isaac McCoy's 
            
            
            Nothing could have been better designed to arouse the hostility and suspicion of the Baptists of the 
                        Ohio
                     valley, than the so -called benevolent enterprise, especially when pushed without due
                    regard for the prejudices and susceptibilities of the people. The vast majority of the churches
                    would have none of the missionary system. In the first place, there was, of course, no Scriptural
                    authorization for such conventions and societies. Many became convinced, furthermore, that it was a
                    nefarious scheme to usurp the liberties of Baptist churches by setting up an ecclesiastical
                    hierarchy based upon a money-contributing representation.17
            
            Current economic and political factors also played into the hands of the opposition to missions. The
                    panic of 1819 left the prices of western staples at a very low level, and the distress was generally
                    attributed to the influence on the federal government of the aristocratic money-power centering in
                    the East. Andrew Jackson became the champion of western discontent on this issue during the late
                    twenties. After Jackson's defeat at the hands of J. Q. Adams in the balloting for the
                    Presidency in 1825 by the House of Representatives, the attack of the western leader was directed
                    particularly against New 
                        England
                    . This happened to be the principal place of origin and support of Baptist Missionary
                    Societies. Jackson's personality was compelling and dynamic. To his followers, he became
                    the champion of the people who toiled as over against that privileged group, including scholars and
                    professional clergymen as well as capitalists, who did not have to work with their hands.18 The new champion found an enthusiastic following within the Baptist sect of
                    southern Indiana.
            It is possible to discern a close inter-relationship between Jacksonianism as a political movement
                    and the anti-mission agitation. The political issues allegedly facing the country were measurably
                    personified in the current caricature of 
                  Mission to the Indians of Indiana and 
                                Michigan
                            ," Indiana History Bulletin (Feb., 1939), XVI,
                            100–113. Societies to raise funds carried various names in addition to
                            "Mite Societies," such as "Female Societies,"
                            "Young People's Societies," and "Cent
                            Societies."
                  
                     17 Sweet, op. cit., 58–622; John Taylor,
                                Thoughts on Missions (n.p., 1820).
                  
                     18 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915, 1918), I, 284–285, 338–340; Beveridge, op. cit., I, 96–99; Sandburg, op. cit., 52.
                            With no state organization behind him, Jackson received a plurality in Indiana in 1824. From
                            1824 to 1828, Jackson's popularity in Indiana advanced like a tidal wave.
               
                     "graceless" and lazy young graduates from the
                    New 
                        England
                     seminaries who proposed to make a profession of the Christian ministry and to ask
                    church folk to support them without working. The implied disparagement of the qualifications of the
                    unlettered and horny-handed preachers of the western country by those who insisted upon the need of
                    ministerial education was made unbearable by the supposed indecency with which the missionary
                    promoters preyed upon the piety of simple folk in order to collect their own salaries. Numerous
                    voices of varying theological opinions throughout the 
                        Ohio
                     valley declared that money and priestly lust for power were the sole foundations of the
                    missionary system. The New 
                        England
                     Baptists, it was alleged, were setting up an ecclesiastical hierarchy over the Baptist
                    denomination which in the end would undermine the liberties of the entire nation. A reflection of
                    this point of view is found in a temperance speech which Lincoln delivered in 1842. On that
                    occasion, he attributed the scanty progress which that movement had made in its early phases to the
                    fact that the first champions of the cause had been preachers and hired agents whom the people
                    suspected of desiring to accomplish the union of church and state.19
            
            The controversy was heatedly joined throughout the 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana churches for two decades. Missionary agents were denounced as
                    "blood-sucking leeches," as masters of infamous "Yankee
                    sophistry." Opponents asked what religion had to do anyway with the colonization of the
                    Indians, with education, and with temperance. Where could anyone find authority for the motley horde
                    of societies and executive boards that presumed to usurp control over the divinely established
                    churches of Christ and to contravene the leadership of the Holy Spirit in religious affairs? John
                    Taylor of 
                        Kentucky
                     wrote that he "smelled the New 
                        England
                     rat" in the enterprise from the very first.20
            
            
               
                  19
                        Early Speeches of Abraham Lincoln (
                            New York
                        , 1907), 73–74. The Baptist preacher mentioned by Beveridge (op. cit., I, 324–330) as the one to whom Abe delivered his youthful article
                        on temperance, a Rev. Aaron Farmer, is not mentioned in local records. He may have served as a
                        traveling agent for a time. A preacher (and farmer) by this name was the second husband of
                        Gertrude Denslow (daughter of Chapman Denslow). Her first husbnd was John Smith Miller. See Hugh
                        Th. Miller, "Chapman Denslow and His Family." Indiana Magazine of
                            History (Dec., 1940), XXXVI, 361.
               
                  20 Taylor, op. cit.; Alexander 
                            Campbell
                        , The Christian Baptist, 1821–1830; Autobiography of Elder
                            Wilson Thompson (
                            Greenfield
                        ,
            
            
            From 1823 to 1828, the problem of the policy to be pursued with regard to missionary benevolences
                    dwarfed all other considerations in the sessions of the Little Pigeon Association. Almost no one
                    proposed that they should cooperate actively with the missionary enterprise. The question was rather
                    whether they should dare countenance the program indirectly by corresponding with the missionary
                    agencies as requested or even with neighboring Baptist bodies who did do so. At the session held at
                    the Little Pigeon Church in 1823 the matter was referred back to the eleven member churches for
                    their consideration. Led by pastor Charles Harper, the Little Pigeon Creek Church emphatically
                    condemned the proposal to correspond with the Mission Board. When a vote was taken by the
                    Association in the following year, the Lincoln church was in a majority of seven to four against the
                    proposition. Harper himself was elected as the next moderator of the Association.21
            
            The controversy was raised to fever pitch in 1825. On this occasion the Associational gathering,
                    meeting at Bethel church, was visited by one Daniel Parker of 
                        Illinois
                    , who was perhaps the most extreme opponent of the missionary program in the western
                    country. Parker was making a tour of the Indiana Associations at the time in a deliberate effort to
                    arouse hostility against the missionary movement.22
            
            Parker's immediate purpose had a history behind it. He came as a fraternal delegate from the
                    neighboring 
                        Wabash
                     District Association, which included churches on both banks of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     river. As such, he could exercize the right to speak in the meetings of the Little
                    Pigeon Association. In 1820, the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association had excluded the Maria Creek Church, of which missionary Isaac
                    McCoy had formerly been the pastor, because that church persisted in giving aid to McCoy's
                    missionary work among the Indians. Within a few years, the excluded church took the lead in the
                    organization of the new Union Association, 
                  Indiana, 1857); David Benedict, A General History of the Baptist Denomination
                                in America (
                                New York
                            , 1858), 864–865.
                  
                     21 Little Pigeon Association Minutes for 1823 and 1824.
                  
                     22 During this tour, he held a debate with the Rev. John Peck at the
                            session of the White River Association in Indiana. Peck was the first
                            missionary sent by the Board of the Triennial Convention to the Old Northwest. He did the
                            most of his work in 
                                Illinois
                            . No less than seven Baptist Associations in Indiana fell under
                            Parker's control at one time or another.
               
                     extending north, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was one of the very few avowedly missionary Associations to be found in all of
                    Indiana. This Union Association was a particular object of Parker's attack.
            Parker was an interesting character. Although diminutive in person and uncouth in appearance, he was
                    nevertheless a clever partisan leader who knew how to appeal directly to the prejudices of his
                    hearers. He combined a degree of natural brilliance with a flair for oratorical utterance. Back in
                    1820, he had published an abusive pamphlet setting forth his objections to the missionary program.
                    The principal argument was based on his peculiar Manichean doctrine of the two seeds. Two seeds, he
                    said, the one Divine and the other Satanic, had been implanted in the human spirit at the time of
                    the fall of man. The eternal fate of any particular person depended upon which of these two seeds
                    germinated within his soul. God's children would be saved and those of the Devil
                    irrevocably lost, and no amount of missionary activity could alter their fate one way or the other.
                    Any officious attempt on the part of missionaries to interfere with God's plan of election
                    he shamelessly likened to the action of a lustful person seeking to aid a neighbor's wife
                    to acquire a much-desired heir. Parker was a rabid Jacksonian Democrat and, at the time of his first
                    visit to Little Pigeon Association, was occupying a seat in the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislature.23 That the curiosity of the younger Lincoln would have
                    been attracted toward such a figure is only a little less probable than that they would have
                    disagreed violently in point of view.
            With the cooperation of Moderator Harper, Parker seems to have carried all before him on his first
                    visit to the Little Pigeon community. The Association not only reaffirmed its previous decision in
                    regard to the general Mission Board, but also refused to enter into fraternal relations with the
                    Union Association. But the trouble had just begun. The extreme predestinarian doctrines of Parker
                    offended many of the more liberal traditions of the United Baptists and the next four or five
                    sessions were stormy ones for the Association. In the annual meeting of 1826, for example, with
                    Parker again present, the body reversed its action of the previous year by opening correspondence
                    with the Union Association. 
                  
                     23
                            Baptist Memorial and Monthly Chronicle, 1842, 107; 
                                Spencer
                            , op. cit., II, 575–578; Carroll, op.
                                cit., 88–89, 108–123, 193.
               
                     Parker was highly indignant and stalked out before regular
                    adjournment time. In 1827, the conservative party within the Association, led again by Charles
                    Harper as moderator, recovered control. This time they voted to sever relations with Union
                    Association "in Consequence of their Connection with the domestic Mission Society of 
                        Massachusetts
                    ." The pendulum swung the other way at the meeting in 1828, though Parker
                    appeared for a third time before the Association. So great had grown the opposition to him
                    personally by this time that the Little Pigeon body severed their connections with the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association as well, an action which automatically abolished Parker's
                    right to visit them as a fraternal delegate and to speak at their sessions. Only thus was his
                    officious meddling in their affairs finally eliminated. The anti-mission policy of the Association
                    nevertheless remained in force for more than a decade after that date.24
            
            Meanwhile a new issue of controversy appeared. The old Separate Baptist tradition re-asserted itself
                    in the proposal that formulated creeds should be set aside and the Bible as a whole be taken as a
                    guide of faith. Alexander Campbell and his Christian Baptist led the agitation on
                    this point. Although almost as hostile as was Parker to the missionary program, Campbell opposed it
                    on institutional grounds alone. He definitely rejected the predestinarian arguments of the
                    Parkerites and the Regular Baptists. Thus it developed that those who refused to affirm the doctrine
                    in question were accused by the Regulars of being Campbellites.
            This new problem came before the Little Pigeon Association in 1829, with the sessions held at the
                    Little Pigeon Church. Some neighboring churches, still under Parker's influence, demanded
                    that the body discipline a particular individual for declaring publicly that the doctrine of
                    predestination came from hell and would go back to hell along with those who preached it. The
                    Association avoided controversy by claiming lack of jurisdiction on the ground that the statement
                    had not been made in its own sessions. One of the 
                  
                     24 Little Pigeon Association Minutes for 1825–28, 1832, and
                            1840. The acceptance of a missionary program was finally eliminated as a bar to fellowship
                            in the Association by a close vote in 1840. Thereupon, about half of the churches broke
                            away, including Little Pigeon Church, forming the Little Zion Association of Primitive
                            Baptists. Four or five of these churches still survive in a dying condition, Little Pigeon
                            among them.
               
                     strongest churches broke away as a result of this refusal to
                    take action. In the following year it was voted to investigate the charge that the Union Association
                    had turned Campbellite. So disturbing had these various outside influences become by 1831 that the
                    Association finally severed all correspondence whatsoever with neighboring Baptist bodies, even
                    including the parent 
                        Kentucky
                     Associations. Thus did the Baptists along Little Pigeon Creek seek to preserve their
                    harmony by isolating themselves from all outside connections.25
            
            In reference to the question of the likelihood of Abe Lincoln's contacts with the affairs of
                    the Association, a few facts may be gleaned from the records. In the first place, two of the most
                    crucial sessions of the Association were held at Little Pigeon Church near his home, those of 1823
                    and 1829. In the second place, Pastor Charles Harper of his family church was very active throughout
                    the controversy. Finally, it is very probable that Tom Lincoln agreed fully with his pastor in
                    opposing the missionary system. At any-rate, Abe's complete lack of enthusiasm for such
                    religious bickering is not difficult to understand. He declared on a later occasion that he had been
                    frequently angered as a boy when his elders failed to discuss their religious questions in terms
                    simple enough for a boy to grasp.26
            
            The growing youth was making contacts during this same period with a steadily widening circle of
                    interests. Before he left Indiana, he had broken away from the political tenets of his father and
                    had become an ardent admirer of Henry 
                        Clay
                    .27 Abe's most intimate friends during this period, such as
                    Colonel Jones, David Turnham and William Wood, likewise became Whigs. During the summers of 1826 and
                    1827, Abe worked along the 
                        Ohio
                     River, then an important avenue of commerce both in goods and in ideas. Robert
                    Owen's communistic experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                     no doubt came to his attention. He became very much interested in the possibilities of
                    canal transportation throughout the western states. He heard one Dr. McMurtrie deliver an attack
                    upon the liquor traffic, and he himself composed an article 
                  
                     25 Little Pigeon Association Minutes for 1928–1831.
                  
                     26 Moores, "Abraham Lincoln, Lawyer," loc. cit., 483–486.
                  
                     27 Sandburg, op. cit., 52. A short stanza written by
                            Abe is given by Sandburg. It suggests that the sixteen year old youth may have favored
                            Jackson in 1825.
               
                     on temperance. It was after he returned from his flatboat trip
                    to 
                        New Orleans
                    , in 1828, that Abe doubtless heard the repercussions, perhaps witnessed the event
                    itself, of the expulsion of Daniel Parker from the local Baptist Association.28
                    There is every reason to assume that his shift of political allegiance during these years was
                    accompanied by a corresponding development in his religious thinking.
            When Abe Lincoln assumed his complete freedom in 
                        Illinois
                    , he gave full vent to his pent-up revolt against the religious regimen which had been
                    more or less endured while under his father's roof. He took a turn at reading Tom Paine,
                    and went so far in his denial of current orthodoxy as to alarm his closest friends. With the passing
                    of time, of course, he became less sophomoric in the airing of his views, but he never consented to
                    give his assent to the doctrine of eternal punishment. Abandoning the conventional modes of
                    religious thinking, Lincoln learned to express his faith in terms of general laws made operative by
                    a Creator.29 His assumption was that "Divine and Human justice have a
                    common measure," and he proposed to devote himself to law and politics in an effort to
                    arrive at a defensible concept of right and truth,"30 Whatever
                    conclusions he reached on such matters as temperance and slavery, thereafter, were based not on
                    deliberate deductions from religious premises, but on the results of personal observation and
                    reflection on what he read in law and elsewhere.31
            
            The facts seem to indicate, in spite of what is set forth above, that Lincoln never entirely outgrew
                    the religious influences of his boyhood. Much that he had seen in the faith of his parents and
                    friends was undeniably genuine. Although lacking in capacity for conventional piety, Lincoln himself
                    was not an irreligious man. His mind retained certain elements of harmless superstition, accompanied
                    by faith in a kind of fatalism or supernatural guidance not wholly unlike the predestinarian tenets
                    of Elder Harper of the Little Pigeon Church. Herndon says that Lincoln was fond of quoting the
                    words: "There's a divinity that shapes our ends, roughhew 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 45–51; Beveridge, op. cit.,
                            96–99.
                  
                     29
                            Herndon's Lincoln, III, 439–441; Beveridge, op. cit., I, 338–340.
                  
                     30 Barton, op. cit., 49–50.
                  
                     31 Sandburg, op. cit., 42. Sandburg tells how as a
                            boy, Abe pondered the question raised in the 
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Preceptor as to whether the Indian or the Negro had the greater reason
                            to complain.
               
                     them how we will." In various crises, this factor seems
                    to have lent his character an element of self-confidence and stability.32 When a
                    group of 
                        Chicago
                     clergymen during the early part of the Civil"War demanded that the President
                    take immediate action to effect emancipation of the slaves, Lincoln is reported to have replied as
                    follows:
            I hope that it will not be irreverent for me to say that if it is probable that God would reveal his
                    will to others on a point so connected with my duty, it might be supposed that he would reveal it
                    directly to me…. Whatever shall appear to be God's will, I shall do.33
            
            Lincoln retained certain negative carry-overs from his boyhood experience as well. The church of his
                    youth had been too void of perspective, too much concerned with futile theological bickerings to be
                    able to contain the inquiring spirit of the young man. Religious considerations seemed to lead into
                    narrower and ever more exclusive channels. On the other hand, public affairs afforded a road to
                    horizons which extended far beyond the fringe of low-lying clay hills of 
                        Spencer
                     county. To those who are seriously interested in Lincoln's attitude toward the
                    churches of his day, the following statement from him will probably be the most satisfying:
            I have never united myself to any church, because I have found difficulty in giving my assent,
                    without mental reservation, to the long complicated statements of Christian doctrines which
                    characterize their Articles of Belief and Confessions of Faith. When any church will inscribe over
                    its altar, as its sole qualification for membership, … the saviour's condensed
                    statement of both Law and Gospel, ‘Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
                    and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself,’ that church
                    will I join with all my heart and with all my soul.34
            
            
               
                  32
                        Herndon's Lincoln, III, 436–441.
               
                  33 Sandburg, op. cit., 187–184; Nicolay and
                        Hay, op. cit., I, 339.
               
                  34
                        Speeches and Presidential Addresses of Abraham Lincoln, 1859–1865,
                        273.
            
         
         
         
            A Dwelling House Inscription
            ALBERT KLEBER
            
            An observant traveler in Europe, especially in its rural districts, may occasionally have paused in a
                    stroll to decipher a quaint and pleasing inscription in the gable or over the door of a dwelling
                    house; or, it may have been on a shield or a tablet underneath a little niche or canopy sheltering a
                    statue of the Madonna or of a Saint.
            As to contents, these inscriptions, at times, are indicative of the hospitable spirit, but more
                    frequently of the deep religious faith of those who had them placed. As to form, they are in popular
                    verse, at times taking liberty with prosody as well as with grammar and with spelling.
            Aside from the cases here to be reported, the writer has not met with such inscriptions in our
                    country. He does not have in mind the inscriptions on public buildings, nor commemorative tablets on
                    historic buildings, nor the "Dine-Wine-Dance" variety of places of amusement; nor
                    is he thinking of the slogans of commercial establishments, such as the possibly misleading
                    advertising boast of a hardware store—"If you're looking for a nut, we
                    have it." Still less is the writer here concerned with the abuse of a Scripture text that
                    he saw somewhere painted in large letters on a barn or stable of a large sheep farm. The owner had
                    used for himself the words with which Jesus, speaking figuratively, made St. Peter the Shepherd of
                    His Church, "Feed my sheep." The stock-raiser responsible for putting these sacred
                    words on his stable may not have intended any irreverence, but someone, pointing to this inscription
                    when driving past on the highway, remarked to the writer, "It is almost
                    blasphemous." The only inscriptions here to be dealt with are those on dwelling houses.
            The writer has found two such inscriptions in southern Indiana. Of these, the second only is to be
                    dealt with in detail both by reason of its unique character and because of its value for local
                    history.
            In the northeastern corner of 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana, a farmer has painted on the outside of the door the Latin words, Ora et Labora (Pray and Work). These words, the motto of the monks of St. Benedict, which
                    are expressive of a well balanced Christian life, are very appropriately placed  on or in any home or workshop. This farmer became acquainted with that
                    motto probably through his contact with the nearby Benedictine Abbey at St. Meinrad.
            In the southeastern corner of 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, in section thirty-five of township three south, range four west, about two
                    miles east of the interesting town of Ferdinand, which in the spring of 1940 celebrated the
                    hundredth anniversary of its foundation, there is a farm now owned by Raymond Werne. On this farm
                    there stands an old stone house in which Mr. Werne and his family live. This house, about forty by
                    twenty-six feet, has two stories and a two-story porch along its whole front; the frame lean-to
                    along its whole rear is a later addition. The walls of the house are of sandstone, partly picked up
                    in the fields and small creeks, partly quarried from the outcrop of layers of excellent building and
                    ornamental sandstone found all through that country. Over the window on the west side is a lintel
                    with a smoothed face four feet long and eleven inches high. On the full length and height of this
                    lintel, there is chiseled a German inscription of four lines, though the letters are of the English
                    cursive type.1 The capital letters are three inches high; the small letters are
                    one inch and three quarters. Linguistically and orthographically, the inscription is deficient in
                    several ways, as is apparent from the following faithful reproduction, but it breathes an edifying
                    religious spirit and a socially noble relationship between employers and employees: 
                        
                            Bauher2 Johan Gerht Eversmann und die Vrau Geboren Tepe
                                Ruft Gott in allen Nöten an er wird Gewis bei euch ston er hilft ein ieder
                                aus der noth wer nach seinen willen tuth und wo friede ist da ist Gott M Heembrok S.
                                Kwante 7 tag 8m 1858
                        
                    
            
            A faithful translation of this inscription, but avoiding linguistic mistakes and observing a more
                    appropriate apportioning as to lines (In the original, the latter could not be done for lack of
                    space) gives us the following: 
                  
                     1 The fact, by the way, that this type of lettering could be employed
                            and that after eighty-three years the inscription still be found in a good state of
                            preservation is indicative of the excellent quality of the standstone of the near-by
                            quarries, which at present are exploited commercially.
                  
                            2
                            Bauherr.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        Builder John Gehrt Eversmann and wife, born Tepe.
                        Call ye on God in all your life,
                        He'll be your helper in the strife;
                        Seek but His will in all your needs,
                        And He'll assist you in your needs.
                        And God dwells in a home of peace.
                        M Heembrok, S Kwante. 7th day, 8th month, 1858.
                    
            
            As to the persons concerned in this inscription, the census3 of the parish of
                    Ferdinand taken in the 'fifties of the last century by the Reverend Ulrich Christen,
                    O.S.B., pastor of this Catholic community, has this record of the man and his wife who had the
                    building erected: 
                        
                     
                        Born Year
                        Member of Family
                        Descent
                        Married
                     
                     
                        1812
                        Eversmann, Joh. Gerhard
                        Hannover
                        
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                
                     
                     
                        1810
                        Töppe, Anna Maria
                        Alshausen
                        1845. Nov. 1.
                     
                  
                    
            
            Also three children born to them are recorded. "Gehrt" is the popular "for
                    short" in these parts for Gerhard. The same census records a Henry Heembrok. It is to be
                    noted expressly that the letter "M" which in the inscription precedes his family
                    name is not the initial of his Christian name but of his trade. A very old man at Ferdinand, of whom
                    the writer inquired about Henry Heembrok's trade, answered at once that Henry was
                        "ein Maurer" (a Mason). Similarly the "S"
                    before Kwante (Quante) is the initial letter of "Schreiner" (carpenter). Franz Quante is still remembered as a good carpenter. Thus
                    were perpetuated not only the names of those who with their money had. the house erected, but also
                    of those who contributed the skilled work of their honorable trades. Employers and employees may
                    well meet fraternally on the common grounds of the noble sentiments expressed in the verses joining
                    the two, proprietors and handicraftsmen, in this inscription.
            An uncritical glance at the number "5" in "1858" has resulted
                    repeatedly in the reading of this figure as "3", but a careful examination reveals
                    beyond doubt that it is a "5" and that the dating on this inscription is August 7,
                    1858. The reading "1838" is excluded also upon historical data. No German-American
                    settled in or around the location of the Eversmann place prior to 1840.4
                    According to the records 
                  
                     3 II Quarter, 97.
                  
                     4 Albert Kleber, Ferdinand, Indiana,
                                1840–1940: A Bit of Cultural History (Ferdinand, 1940), 32.
               
                     of the 
                        United States
                     Land Office, John G. Eversmann entered the land upon which he later built his stone
                    house only on December 1, 1841. As appears from the parish record quoted above, John G. Eversmann
                    married Anna Töppe only in 1845; hence he and his "wife" could not have
                    built the house in 1838.
            It is to be hoped that lovers of history who know of similar inscriptions, be these in Indiana or in
                    other states, will receive an incentive from this article to report them, so that eventually there
                    shall be both a collection of them and a literature concerning them.
         
         
         
            Thomas R. Marshall
            H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            
            From country lawyer to Governor of Indiana and then to Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                     in the space of four years, is an unusual record. Four years as governor and eight
                    years as vice-president constituted the entire public career of Thomas R. Marshall. Yet, in those
                    twelve years, he came to be recognized as one of the important men of his day and generation.1
            
            Thomas Riley Marshall was a native of 
                        Wabash
                     county. He was born at North 
                        Manchester
                     on March 14, 1854, the son of a country doctor. His education was obtained in the North 
                        Manchester
                     schools and 
                        Wabash
                     College from which he was graduated in 1873. He studied law in the office of Walter
                    Olds, afterwards a justice of the Indiana supreme court. A year later he was admitted to the 
                        Whitley
                     county bar and began the practice of law in 
                        Columbia
                     City. He applied himself diligently to his profession and rose steadily until he came
                    to be recognized as one of the best lawyers of northern Indiana. His services were in great demand
                    and he was employed in many of the most important cases that came before the courts of 
                        Whitley
                    , Allen and Koscuisko counties. It was when he was engaged in a trial at 
                        Warsaw
                     in 1902 that the writer, at that time editor of the 
                        Warsaw
                    
                    Union, met him for the first time. Francis E. Bowser, the leading attorney of the 
                        Warsaw
                     bar and later judge of the 
                        Kosciusko
                     court, introduced us. Not one of us then dreamed of the honors which a few years were
                    to bring to him.
            Two years after his admission to the bar, he formed a partnership with Hon. William F. McNagny who
                    was elected 
                  
                     1 This article was written and accepted for publication before the
                            appearance of the biography, Thomas Riley Marshall, Hoosier Statesman
                                    (
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     , 1939), by Charles M. Thomas. Readers of this
                            article will no doubt enjoy reading the biography, a review of which was published in our
                            March issue of last year. In a letter to the Editor, Mr. Bartholomew, who
                            was personally acquainted with Mr. Marshall, included a passage which is worth quoting here:
                            "One thing in particular [about Marshall] always impressed me and that is that he
                            did not consider himself great. When he was holding the second highest office in the nation
                            he did not hold himself any higher than when he was a country lawyer. In 1914, when he was
                            Vice-President, he came to 
                                Goshen
                             to make a speech. Several of us called on him at the old Hotel Hascall. We sat
                            down and chatted with him a while and I would have defied any one who was a stranger to all
                            of us to pick out the vice-president."
               
                     to the national House of Representatives in 1892, serving a
                    single term. Later, P. H. Clugston joined them and the firm of Marshall, McNagny and Clugston became
                    one of the most widely known in Northern Indiana. The firm name was painted on the office window and
                    remained there long after Mr. Marshall had left 
                        Columbia
                     City. It became one of the landmarks of the place and the people then looked upon it
                    with a feeling akin to reverence.
            From the day of his admission to the bar until his nomination for governor in the summer of 1908,
                    Marshall applied himself exclusively to his profession. He never dabbled in outside matters as so
                    many attorneys do. He believed that lawyers who engaged in selling stocks and bonds, or in
                    organizing corporations, or in any other outside activities dishonored their profession.
            The life of a lawyer who confines himself to his profession is comparatively uneventful. A good share
                    of such an attorney's time is spent in his office in the preparation of his cases. No
                    matter how thorough a knowledge he may have of the law, he is not satisfied until he has mastered
                    every detail which has to do with the particular case in which he is engaged. Often it becomes
                    necessary for him to spend many hours and even days looking up authorities, or studying decisions of
                    both the lower and higher courts. He is not satisfied until he has exhausted every resource that
                    might help him to give the best possible service to his client. When it comes to the actual trial he
                    must exercise the utmost vigilance in order that opposing counsel may not gain an unfair advantage.
                    Much of this work is extremely prosaic, but that does not abate in the least the devotion of a good
                    lawyer to his cause. For more than twenty years, Marshall was thus employed with no promise of
                    anything different for the rest of his life. Not until his party began casting about for somebody to
                    lead it in the campaign of 1908 were there any indications that his activities would be any
                    different in the future.
            For twelve years, the Republicans had held undisputed control of the state. They had elected three
                    governors in succession, something that had not been done by any party for a half century, that is,
                    since Democrats had elected Whitcomb, Wright and Williard. There seemed to be a growing
                    dissatisfaction on the part of the people and an apparent  desire
                    for a change in the state administration. Besides, the Republican governor, J. Frank Hanly, had
                    pursued a course which was anything but favorable to the welfare of his party. The situation at the
                    end of the twelve years of Republican rule and the prospects for Democratic success have never been
                    more felicitously stated than in the following excerpt from John B. Stoll: 
                        Political favors at times are extended under peculiar circumstances. Occasionally they come
                            from sources least expected or suspected. Such an experience was had by the Democracy in the
                            year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and eight. And the favor came from a man who has
                            yet to utter a single sentence favorable to or kindly of the Democratic party. For years and
                            years, he took infinite delight in hurling fiery anathemas at the party in which he
                            absolutely could see no good and which he affected to regard as wholly and hopelessly bad.
                            By forcing his party to take a step it did not want to take at that unpropitious time, and
                            by making most vicious attacks upon public officials chosen by the same ballots that made
                            him Governor of this commonwealth, he [J. Frank Hanly] so completely disorganized and
                            disrupted the Republican party of Indiana that the most important part of its State ticket
                            was defeated outright and the remainder thereof saved by a scratch.2
                  
                    
            
            As early as 1907, believing that the signs of the times were more favorable for the Democracy than
                    they had been for more than a decade, party leaders began to cast about to discover the best man to
                    head the state ticket in 1908. While Mr. and Mrs. Marshall were spending their summer vacation in
                    the pine forests of northern 
                        Michigan
                    , word reached them that Louis Ludlow, for years one of the leading newspaper
                    correspondents of Indiana and now a member of the lower House of Congress from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district had, in the words of Mr. Marshall, "taken his life and reputation in
                    his hands and had dared to assert that I would make a good Democratic candidate for
                    governor." Andy Monyihan, at that time editor of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette immediately wrote a two column editorial expressing his hearty
                    approval of the suggestion. What followed Mr. Ludlow's suggestion and Mr.
                    Monyihan's editorial can be told in no better way than to quote Marshall's own
                    words: 
                        Mrs. Marshall and I came back from our vacation brown as berries and impecunious as tramps. I
                            found that my law office was about 
                        
                           2 John B. Stoll, History of the Indiana
                                        Democracy, 1816–1916 (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1917), 405.
                     
                             to be turned into political headquarters. My partners
                            had searched in vain for anything in my life that distinguished me from the common run of
                            men, so they had ventured into the field of fiction, had written and had printed an
                            eight-page pamphlet reviewing the history of the Marshal family from the time of the flood
                            down to the year 1907. If there was a distinguished soul in all the long line who had borne
                            that name that had not contributed more or less blood to my veins, they had never heard of
                            him. I read the pamphlet and asked them what they were going to do with it. They told me I
                            was now a full-fledged candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor, and that they
                            were going to send it out to all the counties in the state. I told them very frankly that I
                            could not let my wife read it and ever again look her in the face; while, like the ordinary
                            married man, I had frequently done a good job of lying to her I could not see those lies in
                            print, bound in a pamphlet, and let her have a copy to pull on me when 1 did not measure up
                            to the standard of that most delightful fiction. I ascertained the price they had paid for
                            this little Indiana romance, charged myself with it on the books (for I did not have money
                            enough to pay the bill) and turned it over to the janitor to use in firing the furnace.3
                  
                    
            
            Marshall's law partner, William F. McNagny, remonstrated with Marshall, saying that he was
                    unknown outside of two or three northern counties and that he could not possibly be nominated unless
                    he was given some publicity, adding that the chances against him were a hundred to one. However,
                    Marshall refused to follow Mr. McNagny's advice and went contrary to all the rules that
                    usually govern candidates for public office. He accepted invitations to several Bryan
                    dollar-banquets along with other candidates, but, further than that, he did nothing in the interest
                    of his candidacy. His friends in his own congressional district, the old twelfth district, rallied
                    around him and their delegation was solid for him, except that one delegate, who had not spoken to
                    him for over ten years because of some difficulty over a lawsuit in the settlement of an estate,
                    opposed him. Some of Mr. Marshall's friends proposed to go to that man and try to persuade
                    him to stay at home and send his alternate. They said Marshall's chances were anything but
                    promising and if a delegate from his own county were to oppose him the outlook would be a great deal
                    worse. To this proposition, Marshall gave an emphatic "No." He declared that he
                    believed in representative government; that the man had been regularly chosen as a delegate and that
                    he had a perfect right to vote 
                  
                     3
                            Recollections of Thomas R. Marshall (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 154–156.
               
                     as he saw fit. The delegate went to the convention, called at
                    Mr. Marshall's modest headquarters at the Grand hotel, extended his hand, said he would
                    like to return to the friendly relations of years past and offered to do all that he could in the
                    interest of Mr. Marshall's candidacy. He also asserted that if anybody had tried to induce
                    him to stay at home he would have spent a thousand dollars to get every enemy that Mr. Marshall had
                    to attend the convention and make every effort to defeat him. This was one instance which showed
                    that it pays to be absolutely square even in politics, although there are a great many people who do
                    not appear to think so.
            Six names were presented to the convention: L. Ert Slack, Rev. Thomas H. Kuhn, Carleton B. McCulloch,
                    Charles G. Conn, Samuel M. Ralston and Thomas R. Marshall. It soon became apparent that it would be
                    a three cornered contest, the real contestants being Slack, Ralston and Marshall. On the fourth
                    ballot, Slack was in the lead with 580 votes. He had been gaining steadily from the first when he
                    had only 278. Ralston had gone from 344 on the first, when he led the other candidates, to 453 on
                    the fourth, 127 less than Slack. Marshall was still third in the race, having 312 votes, only 102
                    more than on the first ballot. Kuhn and McCulloch had dropped out, and 
                        Conn
                     had only 24 3/4. Mr. Stoll describes what came next: 
                        The Slack delegation went wild, and then something happened to jar them. Ralston was on his
                            feet, gesturing for silence. The applause stopped suddenly. Ralston was as white as a sheet
                            of paper, and his hands trembled visibly as he said: "There seems to be
                            considerable doubt as to the desirability of my nomination. In that case I have something to
                            say to you. I do not wish the nomination if all do not think it would help the party, and
                            therefore I ask that I be allowed to withdraw." Marshall was nominated on the fifth
                                ballot.4
                  
                    
            
            The reporter who covered the convention for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News said: 
                        Ralston followed Taggart's bidding and withdrew. The delegates controlled by Taggart
                            were switched to Marshall. Slack made gains, but not enough to overcome the Taggart support
                            thrown to his opponent. Marshall was nominated. The convention went wild….
                        Never before had Taggart men and anti-Taggart men so joined in a jollification. Both sides
                            were claiming Marshall for their own. A compromise candidate had been found without either
                            side looking for him. A man on whom all Democrats might unite had suddenly advanced to the
                                
                        
                           4 Stoll, op. cit.,
                                406–407.
                     
                             front. None doubted his ability; all knew his strength
                            of character and mind. "Tom" Marshall, lawyer, one of the best thinkers,
                            best talkers, best campaigners in the Democratic party; one of the ablest and most brilliant
                            attorneys in Indiana; a man whose reputation is regarded as unquestioned; a Democrat who had
                            never taken part in factional quarrels, and a man who represented no interest and had no
                            string tied to him—had been nominated by the Democrats for Governor.5
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Elkhart
                    
                    Review was edited by A. P. Kent, one of the most scholarly journalists in northern
                    Indiana and at the same time one of the most conservative Republicans. He paid Marshall the
                    following graceful tribute: 
                        The choice of the democracy of the state for its standard bearer fell upon the man who of all
                            the list of candidates would best serve the people and the state. He is the best expression
                            of the intelligence, the honor, the rectitude of life, the practical wisdom needed in an
                            executive and which the public has a right to expect of its governor. Mr. Marshall is a
                            lawyer of distinction, acquainted by profession with the requirements for making legislation
                            effective. It is a mistaken notion that a governor should not be a lawyer. Of all men
                            executive officers of the state should be fully versed in law that they may avoid blunders
                            in suggestion and errors in efforts to enforce. Mr. Marshall is a man of clean record, a
                            conservative but progressive citizen, a man of high personal character, an orator of ability
                            and convincing power. The democracy did well in its ultimate selection of a candidate for
                            governor.
                    
            
            In a speech made in 
                        Goshen
                     in 1914, Marshall referred to the convention of 1908 in his own quaint style, saying
                    that while Sam Ralston and Ert Slack were fighting over the nomination, he "grabbed it and
                    ran out of Tomlinson hall with it." He confessed that he had always felt a little ashamed
                    of it and was glad that Ralston was nominated and elected as his successor and would like to see
                    Slack become Ralston's successor.
            A hotly contested campaign followed the state convention of 1908. For the first time in sixteen
                    years, Democrats were thoroughly united. This was largely due to Mr. Marshall's
                    conciliatory attitude toward all factions. He made a vigorous campaign. His speeches were unique. In
                    fact, they were so different from ordinary campaign speeches that the managers called him into
                    headquarters and told him that his was no way to campaign. He continued in his own way. He began his
                    speeches by saying that he was the Democratic candidate for governor of Indiana—candidate
                    of no faction 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 27, 1908.
               
                     and candidate of no interest; that he had no strings on him, no
                    promises out and owed nobody anything except good will. He told his hearers that he had a good law
                    practice and so far as he was individually concerned he did not care whether he was elected or not,
                    but, if citizens were interested in Democratic principles, he was soliciting their votes for the
                    party and not for himself.6
            
            He said other things that startled the old time leaders, even causing them to think that the battle
                    was lost, but they were mistaken. One example is enough to show that he was not afraid to speak his
                    mind freely when he believed that the occasion required it. He learned that a certain religious
                    organization was being asked to have all of its preachers fight him, which many of them did. Instead
                    of trying to curry their favor he simply told them that they were called to preach the gospel and
                    not to beat a bass drum in a Republican procession.
            The outcome of the campaign, as everybody knows, was that Tom Marshall was elected governor of
                    Indiana. He set about to give the people a business administration. He was determined that the
                    affairs of the state should be managed efficiently and with due regard to economy. One of the
                    measures which he proposed was the creation of a state board of accounts whose duty it should be to
                    examine the financial records of all public officers, from those of the state down to the townships.
                    This put an end to much of the graft which had been going on for years in many local units
                    throughout the state. Steps were also taken immediately to reduce the huge debt which his
                    administration had inherited. So great was the success of this policy that when his successor went
                    out of office the debt had been wiped out altogether.
            The matter of pardoning and paroling prisoners in the state penal institutions is one that gives a
                    governor a great deal of trouble and anxiety and Mr. Marshall was no exception. A great many cases
                    were brought before him and he endeavored to judge each on its merits. A careful examination of each
                    one was made so that, if possible, there should be no mistake—that no deserving one
                    should be refused a pardon and no undeserving convict granted one. In each instance, when favorable
                    action was taken, a parole was first 
                  
                     6
                            Recollections, 166–167.
               
                     granted and subsequent pardon made to depend on good behavior.
                    Occasionally, one who was paroled had to be sent back to prison but there were only a few who were
                    not eventually pardoned and given a chance to become useful citizens. Several times Mr. Marshall had
                    to deal with strikes. In each instance, he was able to bring about a settlement without calling out
                    the militia, but he did order out the militia to stop race track gambling in 
                        Porter county
                    .
            The story of Marshall's election as vice-president in 1912 and of his eight years of service
                    in that office is a part of the country's history. That term of service included one of the
                    most trying periods that this nation has ever known, the period of the World War. He was the first
                    vice-president in almost a hundred years to serve two full terms with the same president. He was one
                    of the most popular vice-presidents the country has ever had. One of the traits which contributed
                    toward his popularity was his sense of humor. He carried with him to 
                        Washington
                     the ability to see the ludicrous side of serious questions, particularly those of a
                    controversial nature which are always liable to stir up lasting antagonisms. With a humorous remark,
                    or a story, he often brought about good feeling where enmity might have resulted. Few national
                    characters since Abraham Lincoln have equaled him as a story teller or in the faculty of relieving a
                    strain with a humorous remark. However, he was not all humor. He could be serious on serious
                    occasions. Quite a number of times it became necessary for him to represent the President at notable
                    public meetings, when the President's duties called him elsewhere. At no time did he ever
                    disappoint those who listened to him.
            Tom Marshall was preëminently a religious man. He was a faithful member of the
                    Presbyterian church and accepted its doctrines without any reservations whatever. He never was
                    afraid to stand up for religion or to defend it when it was assailed. During all of the years that
                    he lived in 
                        Columbia
                     City, he was one of the pillars of the Presbyterian church there and a regular
                    attendant at its services. When he went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as governor of Indiana, he identified himself with the First Presbyterian Church of the
                    capital city and during his four years there he taught the men's class in the Sunday
                    School. While he was vice president, he attended the church of his choice in 
                        Washington
                    ,  and when he returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the end of eight years, he resumed his work as a Sunday School teacher. In an
                    address to the men's brotherhood, he said: 
                        I have come back to Indiana having learned just one thing and that is that there never will
                            be a great man except one who consecrates himself to God, to his country and to the cause of
                            humanity. It is not necessary that his standing be high. The humble may be this man.
                     This was said after eight years' daily contact with those whom the world calls
                    great.
            Next to his reverence for the Christian religion was his reverence for law and order. He had the
                    highest ideals of the law and of the legal profession. He had the utmost contempt for those who
                    resort to all kinds of tricks to gain their ends. He took his oath as a lawyer seriously and lived
                    up to the teaching that the lawyer is an officer of the court upon whose shoulders rests some of the
                    responsibility for the administration of justice.
            That he appreciated and held at its full value American citizenship is evidenced by unpretentious
                    demeanor throughout his career from his youth and young manhood, as one of the most successful
                    lawyers in Indiana, as governor of a great state and as the occupant of the vice presidency. His
                    estimate of citizenship in our republic is summed up in the first paragraph of his valedictory
                    address delivered on March 4, 1921, on leaving the vice-presidential chair: 
                        Senators: Very shortly I shall have ended my official life as the constitutional presiding
                            officer of this body. That moment when it arrives will not mark my demotion to the ranks of
                            the average American citizen for I never rose above them.
                        I sprang from the loins of men who helped to lay the foundation of the republic. At my birth
                            my father placed upon my baby brow the coronal of a free born American citizen. In my youth
                            I was taught that if I wore it worthily no prince nor potentate nor electorate could add to
                            or detract from the honor of that royal coronet.7
                  
                    
            
            Gov. Marshall's home life was ideal. Mrs. Marshall was formerly Miss Lois Kinsey of 
                        Salem
                     Center, 
                        Steuben
                     county. Her father was elected clerk of 
                        Steuben
                     County. This necessitated the removal of the family to 
                        Angola
                     where she served as a deputy in the clerk's office. There Mr. Marshall met her
                    when he had business in the 
                        Steuben
                     County circuit court. Their acquaintance finally led to their marriage. No 
                  
                     7
                            Cong. Record, 66 Cong., 3 Sess., 4532.
               
                     husband and wife were ever more devoted to each other than they,
                    and no married couple ever enjoyed each other's companionship more than did they. All
                    through his campaign for the governorship, Mrs. Marshall accompanied her husband in order that they
                    might be together. They never were away from each other at any time except when he was attending to
                    professional or official business.
            Scarcely any more fitting close to this article can be made than to quote Marshall's tribute
                    to the pioneers and their log cabins for he revered both to the end of his life. This tribute
                    deserves a place among the English classics: 
                        At sight of an old log cabin fifty years slip from my shoulders like a worn-out vesture. I
                            see a sweet faced old lady. She tells me how, in the early twenties of the last century, she
                            rode horseback, with a baby in her arms, from old 
                                Virginia
                             to the wilds of Indiana, and how at the end of six weeks she dismounted and
                            entered a log cabin, built in the primeval forest. I hear her tell of the wide fire place,
                            the swaying crane and a boy laboriously striving by the flickering firelight to get a little
                            knowledge. Over and over she tells me the trials, the struggles and the triumphs of the
                            pioneer days. She speaks with pleasure of the progress which the state has made; and yet,
                            boy though I was when this vision was a reality, I thought I heard an undertone of sadness
                            as she told me of passing through the morning-glory bedecked door of the old log cabin to
                            their new brick home. She had a sweet, happy ending for her life, rounded out as it was by
                            love and contentment. She did not sneer at the new ways nor feel that the world was awry,
                            but I could tell that young life, young love and a large hope in a log cabin were to her far
                            preferable to listlessness with luxury, hopelessness with plenty and love-lack with
                            prosperity. A rounded life is a pleasant past, a contented present and a hopeful future.
                            Such a life this gray-haired lady, my grandmother, lived.
                        The log cabin has almost disappeared. Let us hope the pioneer still lives, for when he
                            passes, civilization decays. In cabin or in palace, he is always a pioneer who looks upon
                            himself as part of a world-wide, age-old plan; who feels that he may make or mar all time;
                            who looks with unabashed eye on life's struggles; who works toward the
                            accomplishment of good purposes with unflagging zeal; and who sits at eventide at home,
                            content, with wife and love.
                        Dear old log cabin of the days agone. From out your dismantled door may there come to us the
                            spirit of the early pioneer, breathing courage, enthusiasm, patriotism, loyalty to God and
                            man, upon the newer frocked and better dressed pioneers of today. And as we breathe these
                            blessings may our hearts thrill, our muscles stiffen and our ears hear the trumpet call of
                            duty and endeavor.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The 
                        New Harmony
                     Manuscript Collections
            ROGER A. HURST
            
            A preliminary survey of manuscripts housed in the Library of the Workingmen's Institute in 
                        New Harmony
                     has recently been completed by the Indiana Historical Records Survey as the inaugural
                    activity of a program to discover and list all manuscripts located in Indiana libraries and other
                    depositories.
            A member of the staff of the Historical Records Survey, one of the Professional and Service Division
                    projects of the Work Projects Administration, has estimated that there are 14,000 pieces in the
                    manuscript collection maintained by the library of the Workingmen's Institute. For purposes
                    of survey, manuscripts were defined as "private papers in unofficial custody as
                    distinguished from public records in official custody." Thus manuscripts in this sense
                    consist largely of letters, personal papers, old business records, notebooks, and the like, and
                    exclude printed material, church archives, or current business records.
            The 
                        New Harmony
                     manuscripts were divided arbitrarily by the Survey into five collections and
                    information was gathered concerning the housing, history, contents, quantity, cataloguing and
                    accessibility of each collection and concerning the depository as a whole. This information,
                    together with similar facts from other manuscript depositories, is to appear in a volume, Guide to Depositories of Manuscripts in the 
                            United States
                        —Indiana, a publication of the Work Projects Administration. Similar
                    volumes of the series have already been published for 
                        Florida
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    , while those for eight other states have been approved for publication. In addition,
                    the nation-wide Survey has prepared nearly forty check lists, guides, and calendars for individual
                    manuscript collections or depositories.
            Generally considered as part of the Library's "Special Collection," the 
                        New Harmony
                     manuscripts deal principally with the history of the town since 1814, and, together
                    with other items in the collection, treat of the founding, growth, and development of the Rappite
                    and Owenite communities, adding the story of 
                        New Harmony
                     through the years that have passed since the period of these experiments. With the  advice and cooperation of Miss Louise M. Husband, Librarian of
                    the Workingmen's Institute, the Survey found the approximate total of manuscripts to be
                    forty-six bound volumes, ten portfolios, ten notebooks and eight bundles of letters. In addition,
                    there are 1,000 separate letters, miscellaneous pamphlets, drawings, and maps, and the 10,000 cards
                    of the local history card files.
            The collection is open to research workers of mature years who come recommended and notify the
                    Librarian in advance. Researchers work under the supervision of the Librarian and desired material
                    is supplied from the collections, although limited access to manuscript material is sometimes
                    granted to well-qualified research workers. Only one bibliographical key to the manuscripts has been
                    published, the List of Books and Pamphlets in a Special Collection in the Library of
                        the Workingmen's Institute, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Ind., which was compiled and annotated by Rena Reese in March, 1909. This
                    pamphlet has been brought up to date by a typewritten and handwritten addendum maintained by the
                    Library. The publication of the proposed manuscript guide by the Historical Records Survey will
                    inform research workers in advance what they may expect to find at 
                        New Harmony
                    , as well as at the several college, university, public, museum, and historical society
                    libraries in Indiana. Thus the scholar can carefully plan his search for source material, and the
                    libraries will be relieved of the duty of conferring with research workers seeking information not
                    in the collections.
            Physically, the 
                        New Harmony
                     manuscripts are housed in file cases, boxes, a safe, and on sixty-five feet of shelving
                    at various places on the first floor of the library building. This two-story structure, erected in
                    1893, is brick with stone trim, has masonry walls and wood floors throughout, and is not fireproof.
                    It is hoped to add a fireproof addition to house valuable items in the special collection when
                    conditions permit. The library building also houses the 29,000 bound volumes and files of
                    periodicals of the Institute's Library on the first floor and basement, and a museum and
                    art gallery on the second floor.
            Founded in 1838 as one of the many workingmen's institutes provided by William Maclure, the 
                        New Harmony
                     Library is the only remaining one of the group. Its manuscript collections have been built up through the years by gift and purchase,
                    and the organization will buy from any source at "reasonable" prices manuscripts
                    concerning 
                        New Harmony
                     history. The library will neither sell nor exchange items, but will accept conditional
                    deposits and loans.
            About four-fifths of the present 
                        New Harmony
                     manuscript collection has been arranged, the letters alphabetically by author, and the
                    local history card-files alphabetically by author, subject, and title. Only one-twentieth of the
                    manuscript material has been catalogued, and but sixty-three cards list single manuscript items
                    exclusively. These cards are included in the special collection catalogue, which also lists books
                    and pamphlets on 
                        New Harmony
                     history. In general, enough information can be obtained from the few cards to determine
                    whether the document is typed or handwritten. Also, the name of the author, the title and date are
                    furnished. Occasionally a card carries a brief biography of the author or a summary of the content
                    of the manuscript, and frequently the conditions of acquisition are stated. There are no cross
                    references on the cards, nor is the location of the manuscript in the library stated, but the
                    intimate knowledge of the librarian concerning manuscript material makes location a relatively easy
                    matter. No manuscripts circulate, but there is a limited amount of desk space for users.
            Outstanding among the manuscripts are records dealing with 
                        New Harmony
                     social, business, and religious organizations since 1845; music for square dances
                    written in the eighteen-thirties and 'forties; letters from Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi;
                    business papers of Robert Dale Owen covering the years 1829 to 1869; papers of other members of the
                    Owen family; notes, newspaper clippings, and biographical information on residents, buildings,
                    organizations, and institutions of 
                        New Harmony
                     since 1908; the correspondence of William Maclure, Thomas Say, Josiah 
                        Warren
                     and others prominent in the early history of the town (some of the letters are as early
                    as 1821); and the letters of Young Ewing Allison.
            The Special Collection itself covers the dates 1821 to 1938, with the greatest concentration of
                    materials from 1830 to 1840. More than forty volumes, in addition to bundles of letters, notebooks,
                    pamphlets, drawings and maps make up this collection which, with the exception of a few typed copies
                         of letters, is all original material. Here are the early
                    records of 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Posey County
                     organizations. Typical are the minutes of the Adelphi boys' debating society,
                    which flourished before the Civil War; the account books of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Fire Engine and Hook and Ladder Company from 1848 to 1872; financial records of a plank
                    road built between 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     in the eighteen-fifties; the constitution of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Society for Mutual Improvement; and many library records since 1838. Other manuscripts
                    in the Special Collection include the original 1825 deed of George Rapp and associates to Robert
                    Owen; local family genealogies; correspondence of David Dale Owen and Robert Dale Owen concerning
                    the Smithsonian Institute; photostats of the minutes of the Preliminary Society of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Community of Equality, 1826; a charge account and register book of the Owen Community
                    tavern of the same period; old maps; the 
                        New Harmony
                     Methodist Episcopal Church papers, 1845 to date; and an occasional public record, such
                    as a justice of the peace docket of 1840.
            An estimated one thousand letters, all originals, throw additional light on their authors and on
                    their ideas concerning the "New Moral World" which was to rise on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     more than a century ago. The collection includes letters by William Amphlett, C. A.
                    Leseur, Madame Fretageot to William Maclure concerning the school at 
                        New Harmony
                    , William Maclure, Thomas Say, Josiah Warren, and others. Additional correspondence of
                    early Owen community members is in the Julian Owen Collection, presented by the
                    collector—a son of Robert Dale Owen—to his granddaughter, Mrs. Grace Zaring
                    Stone, who in turn gave them to her aunt, Miss Eleanor Cooper (Julian Owen's stepdaughter),
                    who loaned the papers to the Library. The seventy-five piece collection includes: business papers;
                    correspondence; 
                        New Harmony
                     real estate records of Robert Dale Owen; the will of Frances Wright, made in 1831;
                    letters and business papers of Richard Owen; early land deeds; house plans; and a map descriptive of
                    Rappite occupancy of the community. The subject and date of each piece in the Julian Owen Collection
                    was listed and filed with the collection in 1934 by Professor Paul H. Douglas, University of 
                        Chicago
                    , and Miss Eleanor Pancoast.
            
            Another collection to be summarized in the proposed manuscript depository guide of the Indiana
                    Historical Records Survey is the 
                        New Harmony
                     local history card files, an estimated 10,000 handwritten and typed cards containing a
                    cumulative history of all phases of 
                        New Harmony
                     life. To many of the cards are attached newspaper clippings supplementing the
                    handwritten information. Apparently no important fact relating to the people, buildings,
                    organizations, events, or daily life of 
                        New Harmony
                     is too small to escape some mention in the card files, a truly astounding collection of
                    miscellany. The cards themselves are cross referenced to books, pamphlets, newspapers and other
                    sources in the library. This collection is all the more remarkable because it has been assembled
                    entirely by the library staff, and was begun in 1908 by Nora C. Fretageot and since continued by the
                    present librarian, Louise M. Husband.
            The Young Ewing Allison Collection of about fifteen letters and six other pieces was assembled and
                    loaned to the depository by the present librarian. It contains letters, a typed autobiography, a
                    bibliography of Mr. Allison's works prepared by the Librarian of the John Crerar Library, 
                        Chicago
                    ; and other information by or about Mr. Allison, a former 
                        Louisville
                     journalist, author, and poet.
            Since undertaking the 
                        New Harmony
                     manuscript survey, members of the Work Projects Administration staff assigned to the
                    Indiana Historical Records Survey have been establishing contacts with custodians of other
                    manuscript depositories in an attempt to make the proposed manuscript guide as complete and accurate
                    as possible. The Indiana Survey is sponsored by the Indiana Historical Bureau in the hope that an
                    enumeration of the holdings of manuscript depositories in a published guide will be of service to
                    all who have occasion to use the source material listed.
         
         
         
            Some Barker Family History
            WILLIAM L. BARKER
            
            Running over a list of Immigrants to America before the year 1750, published by the Institute of
                    American Genealogy, I find the names of seventy-three Barkers. Through Barker
                        Genealogy, published by the Barker Society, of which I am a vice-president,1 I learn there are eight principal lines of the Barker family in this country. Miss E. Frye
                    Barker is the Secretary of the Barker Society. My people in this country originate from James Barker
                    of Rowley, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He was born in Straagewell, County of 
                        Suffolk
                    , 
                        England
                    , in the year 1618, and died at Rowley, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , September 5, 1678. He came from 
                        England
                     with his brother Thomas, in the company of the Reverend Ezekiel Rogers, and landed at 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , in the year 1638. He was a tailor, and, in 1639, one of the founders of Rowley, and
                    one of its first tything-men. I have made no effort to find the origin of our family name, and as it
                    probably antedates the sideshow spieler (or "barker") I assume the original Barker
                    removed the bark from oak and hemlock trees which was used for tanning hides. The coat of arms used
                    on the Barker Society stationery is a shield surmounted by a falcon, with the motto, In
                        Deo Solo Salus.
            
            Leaving a hiatus here of one hundred thirty-nine years, which I know will be appreciated, I shall
                    pass up the gay cavaliers and bold buccaneers who married, were knighted or hung in the succeeding
                    generations, and come down to Samuel Barker the ancestor of the Indiana branch of my family. He
                    fought in the revolutionary war in Captain Rogers' company and married Betsy Rogers, the
                    daughter of the Captain. He lived at 
                  Newburyport,
                            Massachusetts
               , and his sons were Moses,
                    who died in early life, Nathaniel, Francis William Rogers and Samuel Barker. My grandfather William
                    Rogers Barker, fought in the war of 1812 in the company of Captain Joseph Holt of the State of 
                        Maine
                    . On March 27, 1817, he (William Rogers Barker) married Anna Maria Johnson of
                            
                  Charleston, South
                            Carolina
               , and engaged 
                  
                     ∗ This paper was written in 1932, and read before a meeting
                            of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society at 
                                Evansville
                             on March 11 of that year. The author died on January 14, 1937.
                  
                     1 Address: 15 W. 107th St., 
                                New York
                             City.
               
                     in business in that city. That he was a prosperous man of
                    business is evidenced by his ownership of five or six slaves who were used as house servants. He was
                    a member of the 
                        Charleston
                     Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, and I have his lambskin apron and officer's
                    jewel.
            The Nat Turner Insurrection in 
                        Virginia
                     of the year 1831, was possibly influential in causing him to leave 
                        Charleston
                     at this time as there was a general feeling of unrest among the slaves, and a
                    corresponding uneasiness on the part of the slave owners who lived in constant dread of an uprising.
                    My grandfather, not wishing to rear his family in a slave state, removed to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , then to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he engaged in the mercantile business. His business was wrecked in 1832, and he
                    moved from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Later he moved on to 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County, where he settled on a quarter section in the Lower Bayou, ten miles below 
                        Evansville
                    . There he engaged in farming and flat-boating farm produce and live-stock to 
                        New Orleans
                    , in which business he was quite successful. Before the end of 1832, he bought the first
                    lot sold by Abner Luce in the new town of 
                        Newburgh
                    . Whether or not this lot was bought with the intention of making his home in the town
                    is not known. His widow, who was the executrix of the estate, sold the lot in the year 1844. He was
                    commissioner of 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County for several terms. He (William Rogers Barker) died on July 19, 1837, when about
                    sixty-one years of age. His widow, Anna Maria, died on July 24, 1851. Their children were: William
                    Luther Barker (my father), Elizabeth Ann, Thomas Rogers, Saphronia, Matilda Smith, John Wesley,
                    Harriet Newell and James Osgood Andrews. After the death of their father the two older brothers,
                    William L. and Samuel, then aged nineteen and seventeen years, respectively, attempted to continue
                    the flat-boat business, but after a few trips gave it up. On one of these trips to 
                        New Orleans
                    , one evening when they were getting ready to tie up for the night, at Bayou la Fourche,
                    Samuel took the skiff and ran out ahead of the boat with the tow line which he wound around a tree.
                    As the boat drew the line taut and came to a stop, a Spaniard rushed up to Samuel flourishing a big
                    knife in his face and excitedly abusing him in Spanish. Uncle Samuel was badly frightened until my
                    father yelled at the Spaniard:  "You touch that boy and
                    I'll blow your head off." There he stood on the boat with the big rifle that they
                    always carried, ready to make good his threat. The Spaniard left with much muttering and angry
                    gesturing. Then my father asked Samuel to throw off the rope, as the mulberry tree to which he had
                    lashed the boat was regarded by Spaniards as a sacred tree.
            Samuel Barker remained on the farm and kept the family together. He was successful and added many
                    acres to the original landholdings. He was a Methodist and was several times elected on the
                    Republican ticket to the office of County Commissioner of 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County. Barker Avenue in 
                        Evansville
                     was named in his honor. His wife's maiden name was Mary King. She was of one
                    of the old families in the Lower Bayou. Their children were Francis A. and Anna. Anna married a
                    Doctor Bell and died leaving two sons, namely Robert and Samuel. The latter was in recent years the
                    Auditor of 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County. Francis A., the son of Samuel Barker, is a millionaire resident of Santa
                    Monica, 
                        California
                    . He still owns (1932) the Old Bayou farm at Barker's landing where the
                    old-time steamboats took on the cordwood that the boys chopped and exchanged for wheat flour in
                    order that the family could have white bread on Sundays. The old Barker farmhouse, built in 1832, is
                    still standing with the high-water marks of the 
                        Ohio
                     for each flood year notched on the stairway bannister. High water meant an overflow and
                    a move up stairs for the family in the house and the livestock in the barn. Communication between
                    the house and barn, and with Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                    , was by skiff. The receding waters always left a deposit of sand and mud on the lower
                    floors and an accumulation of driftwood on the farm lands.
            My cousin Francis has two daughters, Mabel and Frances. In conversation with my 'uncle
                    Samuel, after the death of my father, he spoke of his mother as a city-bred, southern lady. The
                    snakes, lizards, spiders and thousand-legged worms incident to her new home in the wilds of the
                    Lower Bayou, were a constant terror to her. In my boyhood home, we had some china jars of about one
                    gallon capacity. My father said that his mother's brothers were sea captains and that they
                    brought these jars filled with preserves to his mother from 
                        China
                    . I have some of grandmother  Barker's
                    silver spoons and a china compote, or fruit dish. I regret that I did not get the silhouette
                    profiles of my grandparents, which I have seen, but which now seem to have been misplaced or
                    destroyed.
            My father, William Luther Barker, the oldest son of William Rogers Barker, studied medicine with a
                    Doctor Walker of 
                        Evansville
                     and attended the 
                        Kentucky
                     School of Medicine at 
                        Louisville
                    . Doctor Casselberry of 
                        Evansville
                     was one of his fellow students. My father located in Boonville for the practice of
                    medicine in April, 1846. His early practice covered territory with a radius of fifteen to twenty
                    miles about this village and his professional visits were usually made on horseback over
                    bridle-paths leading from the main roads. He was a charter member of the Mason, Oddfellows, and
                    Knights of Pythias lodges of Boonville, and regimental surgeon of the One Hundred Twentieth Regiment
                    of Indiana volunteers with the rank of Major in the Civil War. His horse fell with him at 
                        Atlanta
                    , causing a rupture and necessitating his retirement from the service. He was an
                    old-line Whig, then a staunch Republican at a time when that party was largely in the minority in
                    his vicinity. He was drafted by his party to fill up the ticket at times, and although he ran far
                    ahead of his party ticket, he was twice defeated for state representative and once for state
                    senator. He was not a hidebound Republican as he voted for his friends among all classes, and his
                    attachments were not controlled by political, social or religious ties. At various times, he was a
                    member of the board of town trustees of Boonville. He married Mary J. Williams, a native of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in the year 1847. He died in 1883. His widow (my mother) survived him twenty-two
                    years. Their eldest child (my sister), Katie E. Barker, married Zachary T. Brackenridge in the year
                    1872. Mr. Brackenridge was a practicing attorney of Boonville, and the nephew of John A.
                    Brackenridge, a famous lawyer. Katie's husband died in the year 1874, and in 1878 she
                    married John L. Taylor, another lawyer. She died in the year 1908, leaving no children.
            I was the only son2 of Doctor William Luther Barker. My business career began
                    back in 1870 with a clerkship in the grocery store of Johnson & Brackenridge in Boonville.
                    The members of this firm were Doctor Thomas J. Johnson and 
                  
                     2 William Luther Barker, Jr.
               
                     John A. Brackenridge. Zachary T. Brackenridge, my
                    brother-in-law, and John A. Brackenridge were the sons of Thomas J. Brackenridge, who was a son of
                    the Reverend John Brackenridge of 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. The father of the late Senator Hemenway kept the post office in the rear of the
                    grocery store. A year or two after I became a grocery clerk, I was employed by the Boonville Banking
                    Company, of which my father was president, and later I worked for its successor, the Boonville
                    National Bank. I served nine years in both, in all. During the following years until 1895, my
                    business was in real estate, insurance and abstracts of title. In the latter year, I organized the
                    People's Bank of Boonville, and was its president for eighteen years. Since 1914, my
                    business has been that of an abstractor of titles. The work involves a combination of local history
                    and real estate law which I enjoy, and I can take a vacation at any time that I wish. My political
                    activities have been limited to a term or two as town treasurer, some fifty years ago, and the
                    chairmanship of the Republican County Executive Committee during the years 1894 and 1895.
            Boonville's first daily newspaper, The Daily Newsboy, was printed at the
                        Standard office in 1876. James A. Hemenway was the business manager and
                    tramped off the daily issue on the old Gordon press. I was the editor-in-chief and type-setter. We
                    worked hard night and day for the seventy-five dollars our week's work netted the business,
                    and some of our advertisers still owe us. After his return from 
                        Kansas
                     in 1882, Hemenway was employed in helping me compile my set of abstract books, then he
                    was deputy county Auditor under Union Bethel for a time. Still later, he went into the law office of
                    my brother-in-law and became his partner. His political career began with his election as
                    prosecuting attorney of the local judicial circuit, in the year 1886.
            As a "joiner" I have done fairly well. The Masonic order was my first venture in
                    fraternal societies. This was in the year 1878, and I have received all the degrees of ancient
                    York-rite Masonry, and have been duly elected to preside as worshipful master of the Blue Lodge and
                    high priest of the chapter of Royal Arch Masons. I am also the representative of the Grand Lodge of 
                        Nova Scotia
                     near the Grand Lodge of Indiana. The local Knights of Pythias chapter was always on a
                    boom or in a depression, and I have presided as  Chancellor
                    Commander under both conditions. I enjoy the good fellowship of the Benevolent and Protective Order
                    of Elks, but have never held office in this lodge. The chairmanship of the 
                        Warrick
                     County Centennial Celebration came to me in 1916, and, with a good organization of
                    helpers, we put on a very creditable pageant and an exhibit of old relics. Other civic
                    activities-include membership in the Sons of Veterans, Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Warrick
                     County Historical Society, Southwestern Indiana Historical Society, Kiwanis Club,
                    Chamber of Commerce, the Boonville Press Club, 
                        Warrick
                     County Bar Association, Historian of the Southwestern Indiana Civic Association, and
                    vice-president of the Barker Society. I have experienced the hopes, joys and disappointments of a
                    mine owner in Nevada; cleared off the sagebrush, "fresnoed," irrigated and
                    "rabbit-fenced" a ranch in 
                        Idaho
                    . I have ridden horseback with the forest rangers in 
                        Colorado
                    , spent a summer in the Great Smoky mountains of East 
                        Tennessee
                    , bathed in both the Atlantic and the Pacific and in Great Salt Lake of 
                        Utah
                    . I have hunted and fished in 
                        Minnesota
                    , motored around Lake 
                        Michigan
                     and through the Ozark country of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                    . Now, in retrospect, it would appear that my long life has been one of unusual
                    activity, but I do not feel that way. This is because I know there has been much time and effort
                    wasted in the sixty-two years, and that little has been accomplished.
            In the year 1883, I was married to Ada E. Dailey who departed this life in 1890, leaving-two sons,
                    William L. and John Dailey Barker. William L. is a graduate of Purdue University and has been
                    employed in the 
                        United States
                     Forest Service for about twenty years. He is now (1932) stationed at 
                        Duluth
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    . He is married and has two daughters, Mary Lou and Jeanne Lois.
            John D. Barker, my other son, is unmarried. He continued the military history of the family by
                    getting a leave of absence from his position as Treasurer of the Peoples Trust & Savings
                    Bank of Boonville while he served in the 
                        United States
                     navy from June, 1917, to February, 1919. He is a graduate of Purdue University in
                    electrical engineering, and is now Secretary of the Peoples Trust & Savings Bank and a
                    member of the 
                        New York
                     consistory of Scottish Rite Masons.
            The five sons of my grandfather, William Rogers Barker,  have all
                    passed on, leaving two of the next generation, my cousin Francis Barker and myself, surviving, both
                    now old men. Two great-grandsons, of William Rogers Barker, my sons just mentioned, now past middle
                    age, are probably the terminals of my Barker family line after nearly three hundred years. A modern
                    calculation gives the chance for a man's sons having sons of their own as one in eight, so
                    I conclude we have done well enough to have survived three centuries on this continent.
         
         
         
            At DePauw Fifty Years Ago
            HOMER EILER
            
            On September 1, 1889, I entered DePauw University, enrolling as a Freshman, under the principalship
                    of Dr. Thomas J. Bassett, a gentleman well-beloved by the entire student body and faculty. At the
                    beginning of that fall semester, DePauw was without a President. Dr. Alexander Martin was
                    temporarily in charge of the institution. I remember this well because of what happened soon after
                    my entrance. At the time of the fall Methodist Conference, Dr. John P. D. John was elected
                    President, and, as word came to the Campus that he was to arrive on an afternoon train, the student
                    body, en masse, were at the depot to meet him, with all the pent-up welcoming
                    enthusiasm possible to a student body of that day.
            The one item that has forever fixed this event in my memory, was the preparations to escort the new
                    President to the campus. A rope some hundred feet or more in length was attached to a carriage
                    carrying the official welcoming party made up of Dr. Martin, Dr. John B. DeMotte, and Dr. Philip E.
                    Baker. I believe that the venerable Bishop Thomas Bowman, and possibly others, also sat in the
                    carriage with the new President. The student body grasped the rope and drew the party to Meharry
                    Hall where a preliminary oration and an informal induction into the new office was held. I can yet,
                    after half a century, behold the scene, hear the shouting of class yells and recall the general
                    pandemonium that attended this scene. Later came the extraordinary, prepared-for, official induction
                    into office. The old fashioned stage was filled to capacity with faculty, dignitaries of Methodism,
                    and the state and city officials who attended. In my judgment formed at that time, and after fifty
                    years unchanged, DePauw can date her rebirth and rise to a place of leadership among the
                    universities of standing as beginning with the inauguration of that leader par
                        excellence, Dr. John P. D. John.
            I remember him, as well as if yesterday because of many peculiar and incidental personal traits
                    marking this wonderful man. If he had any hairs on his head, I believe they could have been counted.
                    This, with his exceeding high forehead and well rounded face, presented a picture never to be  erased from memory. Unfortunately, the twitchings of his facial
                    muscles added a mark to aid the memory. All these physical peculiarities, however, were overshadowed
                    by his knowledge and gifted insight into several phases of learning, and the fact that he was
                    approachable by the greenest of "preps" or the most "noble" of
                    seniors. I wonder how many remember the lecture, to my mind, his greatest, "Did God Make
                    man or man make God?" This became a subject of nation-wide interest.
            DePauw has added to her laurels in all the fifty years since because of the Presidency of Dr. John,
                    and, not to speak critically, subsequent presidents have had to go far to surpass the ideal
                    standards of University leadership set by the leader who served DePauw as President from 1889 to
                    1895.
            As I look back upon my days in college, there are many faculty members connected with old DePauw
                    whose lives and outstanding personalities are ever present to my memory. I feel that the first was
                    the officially designated Chancellor, Bishop Thomas Bowman. Extremely small in stature, he ripened
                    at the age of about ninety years, at which time he had as keen an intellect as hosts of men of much
                    younger years. His was a welcome figure at devotionals, and at many social gatherings.
            Another man of prestige was Dr. John Clarke Ridpath, an ever welcome visitor to the DePauw campus. He
                    and Dr. Bassett are easily remembered because of their similarity in physique, and their long
                    beards, so uncommon in this day. One associates with Dr. Bassett several of his
                    colleagues—Dr. Wilbur A. Ayers, Dr. Harry L. Beals, Dr. John B. De-Motte, along with a
                    Miss Dixon and others who brought a great reputation to the Preparatory Department because of their
                    chosen work as teachers.
            My memory likewise takes me back to the humor of student life at DePauw and the delight of the
                    students in playing pranks—pranks from which no occasion or person was ever immune. More
                    especially do I recall a story concerning the beloved Dr. John B. DeMotte that relates to his
                    freshman days. As the story goes, it was the occasion of a morning chapel exercise, and a noted
                    Bishop was presiding. Previously, the ingenious young DeMotte had hollowed. out a space in the Bible and filled it with mice. When the Bishop opened the Bible
                    for the reading, away the mice scampered  over the pulpit and
                    stage. One can easily imagine the hilarity that ensued. Needless to say, the devotional exercises
                    were considerably devoid of devotion on that occasion.
            Another alumnus of DePauw, prominent during my years at that institution and well deserving of
                    mention, was the esteemed Albert J. Beveridge, who, during his lifetime, gained great honor and
                    prestige both for himself and his Alma Mater. In 1889, talk was still prevalent of the laurels he
                    had won for himself and for DePauw in debate and oratory in competition with men of other
                    institutions as well as in national contests.
            Nothing is of more vivid memory than the recollection of my associates in the Theological Club. In
                    the absence of historical record, the names of several remain with me, not only because of their
                    fellowship in student days, but also because of their particular prominence in later years. One such
                    of these was Dr. Lemuel H. Murlin, a man of many notable achievements. At one time he was the
                    President of 
                        Boston
                     University, later (1925–1928) serving as the President of DePauw, his Alma Mater. Then there was a Mr. Cook and a Mr. Bennett, of whom I have but hazy
                    memories, who became prominent missionaries in the Orient. There were also two Japanese students,
                    Masuco and Takasugi, who gained considerable honor because of their proficiency in mathematics and
                    physics.
            There was another outstanding student of my day in DePauw with whom I have kept in touch during all
                    the fifty years since, because of her self-sacrifice in devoting her life to foreign missionary work
                    in 
                        India
                    . I refer to Miss Lillie Dexter Green, who prepared for that special work and was sent
                    to Delhi, 
                        India
                    , where she has labored continuously since in missionary work. In recent years, she has
                    had charge of the Methodist College work in the city of Delhi, where she still remains, zealous as
                    ever in her missionary calling.
            From a religious point of view, old DePauw reflected both the name and the spirit of Old Asbury
                    University, continuing like its predecessor the practice of its founder's precepts.
                    Religion pervaded the atmosphere everywhere. The daily chapel exercise was a fixed institution, and
                    merits or de-merits were a recognized practice. Weekly prayer meetings were of a voluntary nature,
                    but well attended. I speak  of this item because I remember so
                    well the revival interest started in one of the meetings, which I attended. This revival interest
                    soon spread through the entire student body, until Meharry Hall was filled nightly, and the record
                    reveals that never in the history of the institution was there such a genuine, old-fashioned revival
                    as during that winter of 1889–1890. I have no doubt that scores of alumni still living
                    today trace their religious birth to the revival of that year.
            While reminiscing about chapel exercises, I recall that it was compulsory to attend the Sunday
                    afternoon devotions in Meharry Hall. Of course, this was irksome to many young students, who even in
                    that day preferred their Sunday afternoons free for recreation and do-as-you-like amusements. Gossip
                    connected with this Sunday afternoon compulsory attendance relates that one exceptionally bold
                    student expressed himself in verse that soon became a classic among the student body. One reason for
                    the distaste of students for chapel was the long-winded discourses and lectures on religious
                    subjects by Bishops, Doctors of Divinity and Doctors of Law, that were not interesting to the
                    general student body. What brought forth the wonderful string of verses by Mr. M. D. Fulkerson of
                    the class of 1893, was a particular lecture with the subject: "Does Supernatural
                    Inspiration Imply Infallibility?"
            The years have sped on swiftly and the importance of the events of that now distant day when I was a
                    student have been overshadowed by the magnitude of subsequent events. The conditions of a half
                    century ago live again only in one's of memory.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The Membership Committee of the Indiana Historical Society represents a specialized, but not an
                    exclusive, interest in bringing into the Society as many well-qualified members as possible. The
                    only qualifications required for membership are "good character," interest in
                    history (however mild it may be), and payment of the two-dollar annual membership fee. All of these
                    are assumed to follow sponsorship or proposal for membership by a member of the Society. Election is
                    automatic when the person proposed by a member sends payment for his annual dues to the secretary.
            All members of the Society are urged to nominate for membership persons who they think would be
                    interested in the Society and would promote its activities. What might be called the normal
                    membership of the Society for the last ten or fifteen years has been in the neighborhood of a
                    thousand. If each of these members should suggest one or more names to the Secretary and explain the
                    prerequisites for membership to the person or persons suggested, the Society would undoubtedly grow
                    to a normal membership of two or three thousand. In this way the entire Society constitutes, or
                    should constitute, the membership committee. To bring this about is one of the objects of the
                    specialized Membership Committee. The committee also is at least a little more active than other
                    members of the Society in looking around for prospective members—in this, it has been
                    successful in the past in adding many valuable members. The Committee for 1941 consists of Robert G.
                    Bradshaw, Delphi, chairman; Mrs. Harry T. Watts, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; Ralph Irons, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    , Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; Minnie Lloyd, Ben H. Riker, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Willard H. Smith, 
                        Goshen
                    ; Cornelius O'Brien, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    .
            The College Committee consists of the head of the department of history or some other member of the
                    faculty who is a member of the Society in each of the colleges and universities of Indiana. The
                    present members are: Louis M. Sears, Purdue University, chairman; Albert L. Kohlmeier, Indiana
                    University; Robert La Follette, Ball State Teachers College; Roy M. Robbins, 
                        Butler
                     University; W. W.  Carson, DePauw University; Heber
                    Walker, 
                        Evansville
                     College; William C. Dennis, Earlham College; John F. Cady, 
                        Franklin
                     College; Willard H. Smith, 
                        Goshen
                     College; Myron Tripp, 
                        Huntington
                     College; John J. Haramy, Indiana Central College; Waldo F. 
                        Mitchell
                    , Indiana State Teachers College; Andrew W. Cordier, 
                        Manchester
                     College; Rev. Robert Gorman, 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                     College; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, Notre Dame University; Rev. Cyril Gaul, O. S. B., St.
                    Meinrad Seminary; George Oborn, Taylor University; Walter A. Davis, 
                        Vincennes
                     University; Theodore G. Gronert, 
                        Wabash
                     College; Rev. Charles H. Metzger, West Baden College.
            This Committee is the connecting link between the men and women interested in history, but not
                    engaged in teaching, and professional historians engaged in making students historically minded and
                    in training them in historical work. The importance of this connection can scarcely be exaggerated.
                    Historical societies need the guidance of professional historians and the colleges and universities
                    need contacts with the outside world to keep their faculties from becoming academic and even
                    pedantic. The object of history is to give an understanding of society and its institutions.
                    Progress on this line requires the co-operation of an intelligent people—amateurs and
                    professionals. The Society is fortunate in having a good representation in most of the institutions
                    of higher learning in the state.
            Another service of the College Committee is in bringing together occasionally college and university
                    teachers of history and political science so they become acquainted each with the work of the
                    others. This has perceptibly developed an effective as well as pleasant esprit de
                        corps. In time, it may even bring about a co-ordination of historical work in Indiana
                    colleges and universities which will provide original research in all important phases of the
                    state's history.
            The Committee on Prehistory and Indiana History began active participation in archaeological work
                    with a meeting at the 
                        Columbia
                     Club, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 16, 1927, at which conference, H. C. Shetrone, Curator of the Museum of the 
                        Ohio
                     Archaeological and Historical Society, spoke about the work of that society and the
                    possibilities of similar work in Indiana. During the preceding year, the Historical  Bureau had sponsored the excavation of the Albee Mound in 
                        Sullivan County
                     under the direction of J. Arthur MacLean, then director of the John Herron Art Museum
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1927, the archaeological section of the Society was organized; from then on it took
                    an increasingly large part in the archaeological work carried on in the state. The state Historical
                    Bureau contributed financial support through 1934 and published reports of archaeological work until
                    1937 when the Society became able to assume entire responsibility for archaeological work in the
                    state. Since that time, the Society has conducted excavations and surveys in different parts of the
                    state, including excavation of the Nowlin Mound in 
                        Dearborn
                     County, and surveys in Allen, 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and Clark counties. Since 1938, Glenn A. Black, Field Director of Archaeology for the
                    Indiana Historical Society, has been directing a W.P.A. project, sponsored by the Historical Bureau
                    and the Historical Society, for the excavation of the Angel Mounds group near 
                        Evansville
                    . Since 1937, the Society has issued as the Prehistory Research Series
                    occasional publications upon American anthropology, archaeology, and allied subjects. Volume I with
                    index has been completed, and Volume II, Number 1, "The McCain Site, 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana," by Rex K. Miller, is in press.
            The members of this Committee now are: Eli Lilly, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; William R. Teel, Glenn A. Black, Paul W. Weer, C. O. Warnock, Caroline Dunn,
                    Arthur B. Carr, William G. Sullivan, Gayle Thornbrough, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; E. Y. Guernsey, 
                        Bedford
                    ; C. F. Voegelin, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Otho Winger, North 
                        Manchester
                    ; Hal C. Phelps, Peru, Mrs. Leo Schttltheis, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; and G. L. Bailey, 
                        Ridgeville
                    .
         
         
         
            Abraham Lincoln's Sister Sarah∗
            
            MAX EHRMANN
            
            
                    The summer moon and sun have watched her sleep
                    Now fourscore years and eight. To him this place
                    Was ever dear with twilight's tender memories;
                    For here her laughing lips cried out, "Halloo!"
                    As up the path he came at close of day.
                    A thousand times he bore her on his back,
                    With boyish strength abused her lovingly,
                    Provoked by playful taunts, by many jests.
                    Then she, returing to her tasks indoors,
                    Left him alone to brood upon the night.
                    The sunset built famed cities in his brain,
                    Forced from his breast the sigh for surging men,
                    Welling up, like wind-tossed rivers, one great hope,
                    To force from life the promises of dream.
                    One round of toiling days, of peaceful nights.
                    He stood here once, a saddened boy, forlorn,
                    And saw her form descend into the earth.
                    Thus early came the gloaming to his soul,
                    Into his boyish eyes the far-off look
                    That, yearning, seeks to see where death has trod.
                    He wandered forth, through darkened wilderness;
                    Yet somehow ever wandered toward the light,
                    Until he held a nation in his hand.
                    He was a rock in storm; in milder days
                    A pliant branch bent down with mellow fruit.
                    He was as tender as. the yellow leaves
                    That autumn winds toss o'er her grave.
                    Through leaden days, through fevered flaming nights,
                    Through hate and horror of a blood-smeared land,
                    This early sorrow made for love in him.
                    Here, then, was sorrow garnished, grief made great.
                    Here bloomed the balm that soothed a nation's wounds.
                    And his dead self still makes for love and peace.
                
            
               
                  ∗ February 10, 1941, was the one hundred thirty-fourth
                        anniversary of Sarah Lincoln's birth. She was Abraham Lincoln's sister, a
                        tragic little figure lifted from oblivion by the fame of her brother. She was born on February
                        10, 1807. She married Aaron Grigsby. She died on January 20, 1828. About thirty years ago, her
                        grave was discovered after being unmarked for probably fifty years. On June 20, 1916, the state
                        of Indiana completed the erection of a monument over her grave at Pigeon Creek Baptist Cemetery,
                        about a mile from the grave of her mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln. At the dedication of this
                        monument, Fred 
                            Van
                         Nuys of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , now 
                            United States
                         Senator from Indiana, delivered the oration; Jesse W. Weik of Green-castle, a
                        biographer of Lincoln, gave the history; and Max Ehrmann of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , read the above poem which Governor Samuel M. Ralston had requested him to write
                        for the occasion.—Editor.
               
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE VINCENNES DAYS OF ZACHARY TAYLOR
            HOLMAN HAMILTON
            
            Foreword
            Four chief executives of the 
                        United States
                     have been intimately associated with the growth and glory of Indiana. The first of
                    these outstanding men, William Henry Harrison, was Governor of the Territory and a hero at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; Harrison's messages and military papers have been collected and ably edited;
                    his Indiana years have been properly stressed. A second occupant of the White House, Abraham
                    Lincoln, spent a quarter of his life on Indiana soil; Indiana's influence on Lincoln has
                    been traced and retraced by seasoned scholars. Another President, Benjamin Harrison, was an Indiana
                    citizen in 1888 at the time of his triumph over Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    ; he represented Indiana in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, passed his declining years in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and his name has always been identified with Indiana.
            In marked contrast to these eminent leaders, the fourth member of this distinguished company is but
                    rarely associated with Indiana. Yet, both before and during the crucial War of 1812, he rendered
                    important service to the people of Indiana as an officer in the Regular Army, stationed in Indiana
                    Territory. He helped Governor Harrison defend Indiana settlers against the Indian forces of the
                    one-eyed Prophet, brother of Tecumseh. At old Fort Harrison, north of the present city of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , he raised for himself—in the opinion of Major General Samuel
                    Hopkins—"a fabric of character not to be effaced by my eulogy."1 It is the aim, in the present foreword, to emphasize a part of the Indiana
                    record of Captain and Brevet Major Zachary Taylor, who later at Monterey and Buena Vista captured
                    the imaginations of Americans and became the twelfth president of the Republic.
            Zachary Taylor was born in 
                        Orange
                     County, 
                        Virginia
                    , on November 24, 1784, the third son of Lieutenant Colonel Richard Taylor and Sarah
                    Dabney Strother Taylor. When a babe eight months old, he was taken to 
                  Jefferson County, Kentucky
               , and there on the family farm across the 
                        Ohio
                     River from Indiana he grew to sturdy manhood. In 1808,  Taylor entered the Army as a First Lieutenant of the Seventh Infantry.
                    He was serving as a Captain on July 1, 1811, when Major George Rogers Clark Floyd2 ordered him to proceed to 
                        Vincennes
                     and there take command of Fort 
                        Knox
                    .
            In the letter of July 6, 1811, which Captain Taylor addressed to Secretary of War William Eustis,3 the young officer referred to an "unfortunate occurrence that took
                    place at this post on the 24th of June." He had reference to Captain Thornton
                    Posey's fatal shooting of Lieutenant Jesse Jennings, the consummation of a long-standing
                    personal feud between the two Kentuckians.4 Army records indicate that Posey was
                    ultimately cleared of guilt in the tragic affair. Indeed, he won promotion to the rank of
                    Lieutenant-Colonel before the end of the War and received an honorable discharge in 1815.5 Nevertheless, Captain Posey was the commandant of Fort 
                        Knox
                     at the hour of Jennings' death, and the fatal quarrel between the officers had
                    its natural effect on the morale of the private soldiers. Floyd ordered Taylor to the Post for the
                    purpose of restoring discipline. The new commandant succeeded so well that, when William Henry 
                  
                     1 Major General Samuel Hopkins to Governor Isaac 
                                Shelby
                            , November 27, 1812. Logan Esarey, Ed., Messages and Letters of
                                William Henry Harrison (1922), II, 234.
                  
                     2 George Rogers Clark Floyd, a native of 
                                Kentucky
                            , was the second son of Colonel John Floyd who was an intimate friend of General
                            Clark and named his infant son in that great soldier's honor. He was commissioned
                            Captain in the Seventh Infantry in 1808. Two years later he became a Major. He saw battle
                            action under Harrison at 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , when the yells of the Indians awakened him from slumber and he rode into the
                            fight clad only in his night dress. Shortly after the outbreak of the War of 1812, he won
                            promotion to a Lieutenant-Colonelcy. Owing to the rigors of the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign, his health declined and he resigned from the Army in 1813. He died in
                            1821. His brother, John Floyd, Jr., was Governor of 
                                Virginia
                            . His nephew, John B. Floyd, was Governor of 
                                Virginia
                            , Secretary of War in President Buchanan's Cabinet, and a general in
                            the Confederate Army. See F. B. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army from … September 29, 1789, to September 29, 1889
                            (1890), 270; William Floyd Tuley, The Tuley Family Memoirs (1906),
                            71–72.
                  
                     3 Dr. William Eustis, a Revolutionary War veteran, headed the War
                            Department from 1809 to December 3, 1812. A leading 
                                Massachusetts
                             Jeffersonian, he was not a successful administrator. He was more effective as a
                            political campaigner than as Secretary of War. He also served as a member of Congress and as
                            Minister to Holland, and, in 1825, was enjoying his second term as Governor of 
                                Massachusetts
                             when he died at the age of seventy-two. Claude M. Fuess, "William
                            Eustis," Dictionary of American Biography (1931). Dr. Fuess errs
                            in stating that Eustis became Secretary of War in 1807.
                  
                     4 Governor William Henry Harrison to the Secretary of War, July 2,
                            1811, Esarey, op. cit., I, 527–528.
                  
                     5 Heitman, op. cit., 528.
               
                     Harrison reached 
                        Vincennes
                    , he sent a glowing report to the War Department: "Captain Z. Taylor has been
                    placed in command at the Garrison near this. To all the qualities which are esteemed for an amiable
                    man he appears to unite those which form a good officer. In the short time he has been a commander
                    he has rendered the Garrison defensible—before his arrival it resembled anything but a
                    place of defence."6
            
            Taylor's own report to Secretary Eustis highlights some of the problems with which he was
                    forced to cope, as well as furnishing latter-day Hoosiers with a vivid picture of frontier
                    conditions. The letter is printed here for the first time, exactly as it appears in the files of the
                    National Archives in 
                        Washington
                    : 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                        Knox
                                     Indiana Teritory 
                           
                                     July 16th 1811
                                
                        Sir,
                        Owing to the unfortunate occurrence that took place at this post on the 24 of June I
                                    received an order from Maj. G.R.C. Floyd bearing date 
                                        Louisville
                                     (Ky) July 1st 1811 to repair to this place and take command of the
                                    Garrison. Agreeable to which order I arrived here on the 9th Inst
                                    and on the 10th assumed the command of the Post, I have had an
                                    inventory taken of all the public property on hand a copy of which is hereby
                                    enclosed. Owing to the defenceless state of the Garrison and the alarm of the
                                    inhabitance [sic] of this Territory from the appearance of
                                    hostilities from the Indians & there being no M Agent here I have thought
                                    proper to appoint Lieut J. W. Albright7 Asst M Agent in order
                                    that the Garrison may be furnished with the necessary artickles [sic] for puting it in the best possible state of defence. I think if the
                                    appointment of Lieut. Albright should be confirmed there will be no cause of
                                    complaint so long as he may continue to act. We are extreamly in want of a number of
                                    artickles I found neither Paper Quils Inkpowder or wafers here on my arrival. The
                                    men here are extreamly in want of Clothing so much so that if they were ordered to
                                    march to any place at this time they must do so nearly naked unless they could be
                                    furnished befor they moved. There is more than half there Summer Clotheing due them
                                    at this time. I would have furnished an acct. of the clotheing due the men here but
                                    I have been informed that accts has been made out and forwarded previous to my
                                    arrival here I have likewise enclosed you an inventery [sic] made
                                    out by the Surgeon of the Garrison of the different 
                              
                                 6 Governor William Henry Harrison to the Secretary of
                                            War, August 6, 1811, Esarey, op. cit., I, 548.
                              
                                 7 Jacob W. Albright, a native of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , entered the Army in 1806 as an Ensign of the First Infantry.
                                            He was a Second-Lieutenant in 1811, and during the latter part of his
                                            military career served as district paymaster, paymaster, and major
                                            paymaster. He resigned from the Army in May, 1823, and died the following
                                            month. Heitman, op. cit., 82.
                           
                                     kinds of Medcines [sic]
                                    & hospital stores that are wanting at this place which he says will be
                                    necessary for him to have as soon as possible as the sickly season is now at hand
                        
                                    With great respect
                                    I am Sir Your [torn]
                                    ZACHARY TAYLOR Capt
                           
                                
                         7th Inft, Commanding8 …
                        
                                    ZACHARY TAYLOR Capt.
                            Hon. W. Eustis
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Four months after the penning of this letter, Governor Harrison defeated the Indians in the bloody
                    battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    —the battle which established Harrison's reputation for courageous
                    generalship and helped to elect him to the presidency over Martin Van Buren in 1840. Contrary to his
                    anticipation, Captain Taylor was not with Harrison at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The War Department ordered him first to 
                        Maryland
                     and then to 
                        Kentucky
                    . However, he returned to Indiana Territory in the spring of 1812 and was in charge of
                    Fort Harrison in June of that year when the 
                        United States
                     declared war against powerful Great Britain.
            Taylor's heroic defense of Fort Harrison in September, 1812, was followed by promotion to
                    the grade of Brevet Major and by his participation in two comparatively unimportant expeditions led
                    by General Hopkins, one into 
                        Illinois
                     Territory and the other into what is now northwestern Indiana. Taylor spent a sick
                    leave near 
                        Louisville
                    , after which he was entrusted with superintending the Regular Army's
                    recruiting service in the territories of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . The letter of April 14, 1813, the original of which is in the possession of the writer
                    of this comment, was written by Taylor on April 14, 18139 (Taylor erroneously
                    dated it "1812"). It was addressed to Brigadier General Thomas Humphrey
                        Gushing,10 Adjutant General of the Army, and is 
                  
                     8 In 1934, when the present writer obtained a photostat of this
                            letter, the original was in the possession of the Organization Records Section, Old Records
                            Division, Adjutant General's Office, War Department. It is now in the National
                            Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  
                     9 In April, 1812, Taylor was a Captain. He did not become Brevet Major
                            until after the defense of Fort Harrison. The fact that this letter is signed "Z.
                            Taylor, Maj.", therefore is conclusive proof that it could not have been written in
                            April, 1812. In the spring of 1813, Taylor was stationed at 
                                Vincennes
                             in charge of recruiting, and this letter deals with recruiting. There is no
                            evidence that Taylor was at 
                                Vincennes
                             on April 14, 1812, though he was shifted from 
                                Louisville
                             to Fort Harrison in that month.
                  
                     10 Cushing, like Eustis, was a native of 
                                Massachusetts
                             and a veteran of the Revolution. He served under Arthur St. Clair and on Lake
                            Champlain, and was commended for bravery and gallant conduct. Upon
               
                     of particular interest to modern military men by reason of its
                    striking portrayal of ills inherent in the Ranger establishment.
            Like the 1811 letter, this second letter is reproduced now for the first time. It appears exactly as
                    it was written, replete with errors in grammar and punctuation: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , I.T., 
                           
                                    April 4th 1812 [1813]
                                
                        Sir,
                        I arrived at this place, about 9 days since to take charge of the recruiting
                                    district, that has been assigned me. There are two officers employed in recruiting
                                    in the district, one in this and the other in the adjoining Territory. I have only
                                    returns from the officer here, who has forwarded you weekly returns and I presume
                                    the other officer has not enlisted a single man. Of cours you are able to judge of
                                    the prospect there is for raising the number of men contemplated in the district.
                                    Nor is our bad success to be wondered at when we take into view, the small number of
                                    inhabitance [sic] in those two Territories, and the number of
                                    ranging companies that are authorized to be raised in them. And the prefferrence
                                    that is given to that kind of service If the 200 men were to be raised as Rangers I
                                    have no doubt but they could be enlisted in eight or ten days nor can it be expected
                                    that men will enlist for five years, or during the war, when they know they will be
                                    subject to strict discipline, and made to do the duties of a soldier, at eight
                                    dollars pr month, when they can get thirty as a ranger, be subject
                                    to no subordination, and do but very little duty. The rangers are not employd or
                                    have not been more than one thenth [sic] of their time in actual
                                    service. The officers & privates board at the best public houses in this
                                    place they eat drink and play cards with each other, in the most familiar manner,
                                    and unless a man is personally acquainted with the officers, he cannot distinguis
                                        [sic] them from the privates, there is one private keeping a
                                    public house here at this time, another has been working journey work as a sadler
                                    and several instances where they have not done a single tour [turn] of duty for two months at a time and in every instance musterd [sic] as mounted rangers, and this done when in all appearance they
                                    are in perfect health. On the other hand there are about 50 regulars here fit for
                                    duty, who are now employd in erecting a large fort for the protection of the
                                    inhabitance of this place & should the Indians make an attemp on this town
                                    in the course of a mont or six weeks (which is generally believed will be the cas)
                                    the fort will be of little use as the works progress very slow & but little
                                    done as yet for part of those regulars that are fit for duty are generally employd
                                    on command. While a number of those gentlemen soldiers or rangers idle away whole
                                    months at taverns without performing one single part of a soldiers duty. Nor do I
                                    believe if the enemy were in ten miles of this place 
                              resigning from the Army he became Collector of Customs in New
                                                    
                                    London, Connecticut
                                 , retaining
                                            this position for the remainder of his life. National
                                                Cyclopaedia of American Biography (1904).
                           
                                     that they would be made to assist in raising a
                                    pickett or blockhouse. They are considered here a kind of state troops (but what
                                    kind I have not been able to learn) only the regular officers are informed by Col
                                        Russell11 that they are not to be treated in the same manner
                                    as soldiers who are enlisted for five years or during the war. I have made those
                                    observations in order to shew you that the Ranger establishment has put an end to
                                    all prospect of recruiting in my district. And whether the officers employd in
                                    recruiting this district and the funds placed in my hands could not be disposed of
                                    to more advantage in some other part of the Union. Previous to the ranging
                                    establishment I had flattered myself that we should have succeeded very well here,
                                    but now all prospects are vanished owing to reasons above stated. There are two men
                                    left here by the 4th Regt who were sick when they left this one by
                                    the name of Eli Boyd of Capt Browns Compy enlisted by Capt Lamb & Jesse Elum
                                    of Capt Cooks company as there is no descriptive list of them here nor no account of
                                    what time they drew their pay to. They have not received either pay or Clothing
                                    since the 4th Regt left this. If any expeditions
                                    is carried on from this place against the Indian Towns on the 
                                        Wabash
                                     I am in hopes I shall be permitted to accompany it as I have but little
                                    to do here
                        
                                    I am Sir very respectfully
                                    Your Obt Servt
                           
                                    Z. TAYLOR Maj 7th R. U.S. Infty
                           
                                
                         Genl. Thos. H. Gushing 7th R. U.S. Infty
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Between April 14, 1813, and the termination of the War, Zachary Taylor passed many months in Indiana
                    Territory. His wife, née Margaret Mackall Smith, whom he had married in
                    1810, joined him at 
                        Vincennes
                    . And there his second daughter was born on March 6, 1814. The baby's parents
                    named her Sarah Knox Taylor—Sarah for her paternal grandmother,  Knox  in honor of the fort commanded by her father. In the fullness of time Miss
                    Taylor was to develop into a gay and gracious young lady, the belle of Fort Crawford in what would
                    one day become the state of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and also to become the bride of Lieutenant Jefferson Davis whom destiny chose to
                    preside over the fortunes of the Confederacy during four war-torn years.
            Brevet Major Taylor himself left 
                        Vincennes
                     in the spring of 1814 to take charge of all 
                        United States
                     troops in 
                        Missouri
                    
                    
                  
                     11 William Russell was one of the distinguished Kentuckians of his
                            day. He fought in the Revolution, explored wilderness trails at the side of Daniel Boone,
                            was subordinate to Anthony Wayne, and distinguished himself at 
                                Tippecanoe
                            . In 1808 he became Colonel of the Seventh Infantry, Taylor's regiment,
                            and headed it throughout the War, 1812–1815. (Information supplied by Mrs. Jouett
                            Taylor Cannon, Secretary of the 
                                Kentucky
                             State Historical Society, 
                                Frankfort
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            .)
               
                     Territory, and to lead regulars and volunteers in the battle of
                    Credit Island on Rock River in what is now the state of 
                        Illinois
                    . Taylor never fought again in Indiana. Yet, by reason of his honorable Indiana record
                    and because of his residence within our borders, he deserves to rank with Lincoln and the two
                    Harrisons as one of four American presidents significantly linked with the Hoosier past.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               This Land is Ours. By Louis Zara. Houghton Mifflin Company, 
                        Boston
                    , 1940. Pp. 779, map, $2.75.
            This historical novel of the Old Northwest follows the 
                        Benton
                     family from 
                        Philadelphia
                    to 
                        Lancaster
                    , where it paused in 1755 for the Indian troubles to subside, to Pittsburg, on to 
                        Detroit
                     in time to be in on Pontiac's attack, to the 
                        Illinois
                     Country during the Revolution, to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and finally to 
                        Chicago
                    . Andrew, the son, was captured at 
                        Detroit
                    , adopted by the Shawnees, and lived for a period with them at Piqua where he married
                    into the tribe. Then he went back to 
                        Detroit
                     with the general release of prisoners after Bouquet's expedition. After his
                    marriage to Hannah Morgan, Andrew wandered to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , went with Clark to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and finally settled at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He fought with 
                        Wayne
                     at Fallen Timbers, where his father was killed, with Harrison at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , escaped death at the Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     massacre, and lived to see the Indians give way to roads, farms, and towns. At eighty,
                    he was contemplating setting out again for less crowded regions.
            Across the pages of the novel parade Croghan, Gladwin, Pontiac, Clark, Vigo, 
                        Wayne
                    , Little Turtle, Wilkinson, Harrison, Tecumseh, Point Saible, Gurdon Hubbard, and many
                    others, including scouts, wilderness-men, river-men, traders, soldiers, Indians, neighbors,
                    children, grandchildren, dogs, and buffalo. (The white bull was never found and killed.)
            The book is magnificent in its conception and scope, and excellent in its general execution. The
                    story and characters keep well within the bounds of historical accuracy. The dialogue is
                    good—at times spiced with realistic bits from soldier and hunter—but now and
                    then a sentence combines perfect modern English with pioneer words and phrases in a manner a bit
                    noticeable. Admittedly this is a hard thing to handle.
            The central theme, "This land is ours," permeates the book—the
                    Indian's belief as well as the white man's. One of the best things in the book is
                    the treatment of the real wilderness-man's attitude towards the Indian, a far truer picture
                    than that usually portrayed by the expression, "The only good Indian is a dead
                    Indian." The author is almost Parkman-like in his attention to topography and
                    naturalist-like in his background of flora and fauna. Characters
                    are adequate, though not outstanding. There are no powerful villains and no overwhelming heroes. The
                    author's characters are in keeping with the book and life. The book is hardly dramatic
                    enough to film into a "super-colossal," horrifying enough to be a thriller, or
                    heart-rending enough to be a best seller. Rather it is a saga of a family and a region.
            A casual reading by someone familiar with the period would have eliminated some of the minor
                    irritations. Pioneers did not clear land by starting forest fires (how the senior 
                        Benton
                     stopped his fires is not clear); nor did they sow wheat in newly-cleared
                    land—if they wanted wheat. Invariably the rifle is loaded in a most amazing way:
                    "Methodically he rammed in the ball and spilled the powder down the muzzle and into the
                    pan." This isn't a slip, it's a ritual. A smooth-bore musket becomes a
                    rifle (283–4). People travel up the 
                        Ohio
                     in "broadhorns," chop limbs with mattocks, and do other interesting
                    things. Better editing would have taken care of the "none were" habit.
            
               This Land is Ours is recommended not only for the historical student, but for the
                    reader who enjoys a good story and at the same time may like to refresh his mind on some of the
                    struggles by which the heart of our continent became what it is.
            R. CARLYLE BULEY.
         
         
            
               Lazare Carnot, Republican Patriot. By Huntley Dupre. The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press, 
                        Oxford
                    , O., 1940. Pp. 343, $4.50.
            This volume is the first of the series designated as the "Foundation Studies in
                    Culture" by the new historical publishers, and is a worthy addition to that growing list of
                    studies of important figures of the French Revolutionary era which American scholars have
                    contributed in recent years.
            Carnot, justly known as the Organizer of Victory for 
                        France
                    , 1793–1795, merits the respect of every true friend of popular government,
                    for he not only helped save one of the first of modern democracies from its autocratic enemies, but
                    he has furnished others with practical and effective patterns of military administration and tactics
                    which, if  properly applied, may do the same for them. A military
                    engineer who began his career under the Old Régime, he mastered the science of
                    fortification as developed by the great Vauban and others of the older school, and earned wide
                    recognition from his contemporaries through his writings as well as actual conduct of operations in
                    the revolutionary period. Yet, he did not believe that a defensive policy or heavy permanent
                    fortifications were or could be the best protection for the French Republic against the coalition of
                    its enemies. How unfortunate that the military and political leaders of the Third Republic did not
                    follow his constant policy that "tactics must ever make the greatest use of mass action and
                    the offensive" (the blitzkrieg) rather than trusting to the Maginot line!
            To Carnot, a member of the Committee of Public Safety after the adoption of conscription in August
                    1793, fell the monumental task of organizing the Republic's new military establishment. A
                    million barefoot, ragged and hungry conscripts had to be and were rapidly clothed, fed, and
                    equipped—transformed into trained veterans to drive the invading Allied armies from the
                    soil of 
                        France
                    . Carnot created the new machine, beginning with the army training camp system, procured
                    and administered the equipment and the commissioned personnel, while at the same time he directed to
                    a great extent the operations of the new armies, sometimes in the field and more often from the
                    capital where he was burdened with a multitude of other tasks. The reader is astounded at the
                    prodigious labor required of and performed by the Organizer of Victory in those critical months of
                    1793–'95, all carried out in harmony with the democratic and republican spirit
                    of the times, with little resort to the terrorist measures of the political leaders of that frenzied
                    period. Conscription was in the beginning a democratic military policy, publicly so recognized and
                    adopted, and its results justified its application.
            Under the Empire, Carnot had almost no career in the active military service, largely because of his
                    own choice. He was a true republican, devoted to the principles of the Revolution and to the
                    Republic. These facts undoubtedly influenced Napoleon in his decision to dispense with
                    Carnot's services after the defeat of the Second Coalition. Curiously, however, in the
                    epilogue of the Hundred Days, he rallied  to the assistance of
                    Bonaparte and received as his reward permanent exile by the restored Bourbons. Ironically, it was
                    the Germans who gave him asylum and they seem to have learned some profitable lessons from this
                    Republican patriot.
            The book is marred by carelessness in proof-reading, especially in the spelling of French names and
                    in the use of accent marks. Such defects do not, however, detract from the great value of Professor
                    Dupre's contribution to the historical literature of the French Revolutionary era.
                    Carnot's biography should find many readers in these hectic times so much like those which 
                        France
                     faced in 1793.
            A. DALE BEELER
            
         
         
            
               Ballads and Songs of Indiana. Collected and edited by Paul G. Brewster. Indiana University Publications, Folklore Series, No. I, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 1940. Pp. 379, $1.00.
            This folksong collection consists of one hundred ballads and songs found in Southern Indiana,
                    including many old English and Scottish ballads, and tunes for fourteen of them. As this part of the
                    State was settled more than a century ago, and largely from the South, the collection makes a lively
                    and valuable addition to the store of related folksong surviving in the more isolated regions of the
                    South.
            In a brief introduction, Mr. Brewster recounts his four-year experience in working out this project,
                    from the time when as a teacher of English Literature in 
                        Oakland City
                     High School, Indiana, he added to an English and Scottish ballad assignment a search
                    for fragments of song titles and opening lines known to students' older relatives. After
                    this hesitant beginning had brought in half a dozen valuable songs, including two corrupt but
                    recognizable Child ballads, he extended his search by arousing the interest of other students, of
                    certain Indiana newspapers, and of the Southern Indiana McGuffey Club, until he had gathered some
                    three hundred texts (exclusive of variants) and almost one hundred tunes, from which he has selected
                    the present delightful collection. Mr. Brewster's prefixes to the various songs bring the
                    reader into the very circle of these hundreds of enthusiastic songcatchers who have made this
                    Indiana collection possible.
            Since the people of Southern Indiana are largely of  Anglo-Saxon
                    stock, this collection does not contain foreign folksongs, nor negro songs, though a few have been
                    touched by negro influence. While ballad-singing has died out in Indiana as an active recreation,
                    yet enough people still cling to the traditional old songs to have preserved them in most
                    interesting forms.
            Besides an invaluable bibliography for the collection as a whole, the author has prefixed to each
                    ballad a very convenient introduction locating similar English, Scottish, and American texts, and
                    occasionally continental texts. Also, the author has added greatly to the interest and value of his
                    book by publishing variant forms when he has found them in his field, variants that frequently show
                    wide differences, as the traditional C form and the Americanized B version of "The Frog Went a-Courting." His excellent index of titles,
                    first lines, and tunes adds much to this well-edited volume.
            Twenty-seven of these Indiana texts are variants of English and Scottish ballads collected by Francis
                    James Child, and they include such favorites as "The Two Sisters," "Lord
                    Randal," "Lord Thomas and Fair Annet," "Lord Lovel,"
                    "Sweet Trinity," "Sir Hugh," and, of course, "Barbara
                    Allen," of which he gives thirteen different Indiana texts.
            Among the American songs are four picturesque versions of "Old Dan Tucker," two of
                    "Simon Slick," four stanzas of "Raccoon's Got a Bushy
                    Tail," a text of "Little Nell of Narragansett Bay," and one ballad which
                    is a genuine Indiana product, "Fuller and Warren," gory with a murder and a
                    hanging, besides "
                        Texas
                     Ranger," "
                        Springfield
                     Mountain," and "Fair Charlotte."
            In the old sailor song, "The Pretty Mohea" still lives in a cocoanut grove, though
                    in one version (where her name has become Mauhee) she invites her friend to her
                        wigwam. In "One Morning in May" the forsaken damsel sings
                    the charming line:
            "That the wild geese may see me as they are passing by."
            In "The Frog Went a-Courting" appear such naturalized forms as jaybird, tick,
                    June-bug, red flea, black flea, and even little fice dog, in addition to such American delectables
                    as black-eyed peas, hominy, and dogwood tea. The old English carol, "The Twelve Days of
                    Christmas," on the other hand, keeps its gifts as foreign as the twelve days themselves  including twelve lions roaring (in Indiana!), ten lords praying,
                    four collie birds, and three French hens.
            The most intriguing phrases appear in "Lasso Town for 
                        London
                    ," satchel for psalter, catfoot broth
                    perhaps for catnip broth, and blood that comes "tinkling o'er my
                    knee." In the old song, "The Drowsy Sleeper," the lover says:
            "From 
                        North Carolina
                     to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
            
            I've crossed the ocean for your sake."
            This piques the imagination.
            The "Derby Ram" is given in two variants which show the exuberant American
                    imagination feeding fat on the tall tales. Among the numerous nonsense rhymes,
                    "Keemo-Kimo" in three choice variants is the most nonsensical.
            But there is no end to the delights of this charming collection. It is a valuable addition to the
                    scholarship of folklore; better still, it is the essence of literature, a refreshment to the fagged
                    spirit.
            ELISABETH PECK
            
         
         
            
               Zachary Taylor: Soldier of the Republic. By Holman Hamilton, The Bobbs-Merrill
                    Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        New York
                    , 1941. Pp. 335, illustrated, $3.50.
            General Taylor, one of the several Americans to become President of the 
                        United States
                     because of his military fame, has waited long for a biographer. The present volume does
                    not complete the story, dealing with "Old Rough and Ready" only to the termination
                    of his services to his country as a soldier. A second volume which is to cover the political
                    campaign of 1848, the preliminaries of that contest and Taylor's period as President is in
                    the offing. The biographer of General Taylor, Holman Hamilton, is an able young journalist of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Like many other men of his calling, he has undertaken to write history. Not only has
                    much history been written by journalists, but it seems to have been easier for publishers to sell
                    the output of journalistic writers than the works of historians trained in the seminars of the Universities. It became apparent a few years ago that technically prepared
                    writers of history and biography must pay more attention to style, while journalists must do more
                    careful and extensive research. Fortunately, both schools of writers are now making desperate
                    efforts to overcome their handicaps and with considerable success. Certainly,  any reader will discover that Mr. Hamilton has not only produced an
                    engaging narrative but every page attests the fact that he labored long with the sources before he
                    was willing to write the life of Zachary Taylor.
            About half of the present volume is devoted to the life of Taylor before the Mexican War, and the
                    remainder covers the comparatively short period from 1844 to the end of 1847. Because of the
                    importance of the General's Mexican War activities this is a fair division. To write the
                    first half of the story was very difficult. The scene shifted often and over and over the author was
                    obliged to re-set the stage. The geography of many parts of the country had to be studied and
                    elusive documents sought for far and wide. Having undertaken the task, Mr. Hamilton refused to be
                    balked by any obstacle until his work was done and well done.
            When he had covered the long years that involved so many parts of the 
                        United States
                    , the author took up the work of tracing the activities of General Taylor during the
                    Mexican War. The theater of action did not change so much but the physical factors must be studied
                    more intensively and the multitude of activities handled more critically. From Palo Alto to Buena
                    Vista, the narrative is colorful, detailed and dramatic. Handling raw troops under hard conditions
                    in a foreign country against larger forces tested the prowess of Old Rough and Ready. He was not a
                    perfect general, but he made a great name for himself. The climax of his career came at Buena Vista.
                    Greatly outnumbered, not ready, even arriving rather late at the spot where he was so sorely needed,
                    he yet won the battle. The author rises to the occasion in his treatment of this engagement. The
                    circumstances are adequately portrayed. The parts played by Taylor, Jefferson Davis, Santa Anna and
                    others are impartially set forth. One naturally expected more in relation to the Indiana troops
                    engaged, but perhaps this topic will receive more attention in the next volume. There was much said
                    and written about General Taylor's criticism of troops from the Hoosier state, especially
                    in Indiana during the campaign of 1848.
            The reviewer highly commends this first of two volumes on Taylor to Indiana readers. Such readers
                    will be interested to know that there is a special, autographed Indiana edition of the book. Since
                    Taylor was active in so many  areas of his own country, rose to
                    such great fame in Mexico, became President of the 
                        United States
                    , and was withal a most unique and attractive character, the volume should make a very
                    wide appeal. Not only general readers will find it instructive and entertaining, but scholars will
                    also find it useful because of the exhaustive research done by the author.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
         
         
            
               Three 
                            Virginia
                         Frontiers by Thomas P. Abernethy of the University of 
                        Virginia
                     is made up of three essays presented at the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University in February of 1940. These essays constitute the Fourth Series of The
                    Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. The three titles of the Abernethy lectures are:
                    "Tidewater," "Piedmont and Valley" and "
                        Kentucky
                    ." This study of the early history of three geographic areas that were within
                    the boundaries of 
                        Virginia
                     until 1792, is marked by an attempt to give due emphasis to the different factors that
                    shaped the life and institutions of each successive frontier. The author stresses especially
                    "the conflict between European institutions and frontier conditions" in the three 
                        Virginia
                     areas that developed successively. The first essay is confined to the Tidewater belt,
                    the second includes not only the Piedmont Plateau but the 
                        Virginia
                     portion of the Appalachian Valley, while the third covers not only 
                        Kentucky
                     but the present West 
                        Virginia
                    .
            
               
                        Virginia
                     furnished a vast number of colonists to 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                     and a smaller though considerable number to the Lower South, but Professor Abernethy
                    was not interested in the general westward movement from 
                        Virginia
                    . His object was to present case histories of three successive frontiers that were
                    actually a part of 
                        Virginia
                    . He has held rigidly to his purpose with the result that we have a definite study of
                    the operation of the forces that contributed to the outcome in the three selected areas. The facts
                    and conditions discovered in connection with each of the three frontiers prove that the influences
                    that shaped the civilization of each were complex. Conflicting interests were always present. People
                    carried to each new area customs and traditions and were in each instance under legal restraints
                    exercised by a distant government. Primitive conditions exercised
                    an influence but such conditions disappeared in time and even when strongest did not always play the
                    leading part. The essays are based on careful research, they are thought provoking and constitute a
                    real contribution to an understanding as the historical development of frontier communities. The
                    little volume is a publication of the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, University, 
                        Louisiana
                    . It sells for $1.50.
            "Divided Protestantism in a 
                        Midwest County
                    : A Study in the Natural History of Organized Religion" is the title of an
                    article by Anton T. Boisen published in The Journal of Religion (October, 1940),
                    XX, 359–381. The "
                        Midwest County
                    " in which this short study centers is 
                        Monroe
                     County, Indiana, of which 
                        Bloomington
                    , the home of Indiana University, is the county seat. The article has been reprinted and
                    separates may be obtained from The Journal of Religion (
                        Chicago
                    ) or from the author through that periodical. The discussion of the topic is one in
                    which a great many facts are presented, but it goes much beyond that. The brief study is
                    characterized by analysis and comment of more than ordinary value. The discussion is sane, objective
                    and also interesting. The article contains matter pertaining to the present day churches of 
                        Bloomington
                     and the newer denominations of lesser folk are treated as well as the older well known
                    denominations. No doubt, many of our readers would enjoy this brief study.
         
         
            
               Corrections:
            In the introductory comment preceding the "Letters to William R. Holloway," edited
                    by A. Dale Beeler, the statement is made (Indiana Magazine of History, December,
                    1940, 373) that the original copies of the letters "were turned over to the Library of 
                        Butler
                     University … after the death of Colonel Holloway in 1911. Subsequently, the
                    Collection was deposited in the Indiana State Library where it may now be found." Miss
                    Esther U. McNitt, Chief of the Indiana Division of the Library, states that the Trustees of 
                        Butler
                     University transferred to the State Library official telegrams of the Executive
                    Department of the State of Indiana (1863–1865), letter books of the Governor of Indiana
                    (1862–1866), and a letter book of the Indiana Bureau 
                    of Finance (1863–1866), which were a part of the Morton-Holloway Collection, all official
                    documents, but did not deposit any of the Holloway material. All of this material, official and
                    unofficial was in the 
                        Butler
                     University Library when Dr. Beeler copied the Holloway letters published in December.
                    Dr. Beeler confirms the statement of Miss McNitt, and states his belief that the original copies of
                    the letters to Holloway remain in the possession of 
                        Butler
                     University.
            In Footnote 31 (ibid., 385), the word "News" should not be
                    italicized as it refers to John C. and Harry S. New, not to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News.
            
            In the article, "Early Literary Developments in Indiana," by Agnes M. Murray, the
                    statement is made that Elihu Stout "started the Western Sun at 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 4, 1809" (ibid., 328). Mr. George W. Purcell,
                    formerly of 
                        Vincennes
                     and now Postmaster at 
                        Bloomington
                     and proprietor of the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    World, has made a study of early newspapers and especially of the history of 
                        Vincennes
                     newspapers. In a letter to the Editor, dated December 31, 1940, Mr.
                    Purcell writes: 
                        Elihu Stout founded the first newspaper in Indiana on July 31, 1804, at 
                                Vincennes
                            , known as the Indiana Gazette. It was burned out in April,
                            1806. A new press and supplies were brought from 
                                Kentucky
                             and the Western Sun was started July 4, 1807 … The
                            founding date of the first paper has been in dispute for some time, whether July 4, 1804, or
                            July 31, 1804. There may be an issue of Vol. I, No. 1, of the Indiana
                            Gazette extant—there are two of Vol. I, No. 2, dated August 7, 1804. Over
                            the "local" column within is carried the date July 31, 1804, which I
                            maintain, the editor failed to change in printing his second issue, and this would tend to
                            justify the founding date as one week previous to the second issue rather than five weeks
                            earlier. The American Antiquarian Society of 
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., which has one copy of Vol. I, No. 2 (
                                Harvard
                             Library has the other copy) claims July 31, 1804, as the most probable date of
                            the first [Indiana] paper's founding.
                    
            
            In the article "Chapman Denslow and His Family" (ibid.,
                    351–368), the author, Hugh Th. Miller, requests that the following corrections and
                    changes be made: the date of Gertrude Denslow's birth (p. 353, fourth line from botton),
                        May 24 for May 4; the word brown for blue (p. 358, twelfth  line, last word); not
                    the John Smith Miller spring, but the next one to the east on the same hill (p. 358, lines seven and
                    eight from the bottom); the maiden name of the wife of Thomas Welles, Tomis for
                        Tome (p. 367, line 13).
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            THE SPIRIT OF HISTORICAL SCHOLARSHIP
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            There is an old saying that "poets are born and not made." In fact the same maxim
                    may be and has been applied to teachers, preachers, financiers, industrialists, politicians,
                    statesmen, and others, including "suckers." Barnum said of the latter class that
                    one was "born every minute," implying that such a person was born that way and did
                    not get over it. After all, the saying is not very helpful and I shall not apply it to historians.
                    It does, however, seem to fit most persons who prove to be historians, or who, making the attempt,
                    prove that they do not really belong. The old proverb, "You can't make a silk
                    purse out of a sow's ear," may be useful in the discussion. A friend of mine who
                    is a professor of chemistry told me a few years ago that a chemist had actually made a very good
                    silk purse out of a sow's ear, thus disproving the old maxim. However, since no one save an
                    expert could turn the trick, the saying holds good for nearly everyone, and, for me, it means that
                    there are persons who specialize in history or who take up the writing of history who can never
                    become either historical investigators or writers. They were neither born to be historians nor can
                    they be made into historians.
            As to being born a historian, a poet or anything else, it must be admitted, as I once heard a gifted
                    teacher say, that "being born is an old-fashioned way of getting into the world."
                    It is true though that people are born with varying talents and with varying aptitudes, and, given a
                    person with sufficient natural ability, he can usually be vastly benefited by training. An
                    individual with a natural bent for research and historical writing, however strong his mental
                    capacity, can undoubtedly improve with coaching and practice. The born historian, if there be any
                    such, owes it to himself and to those who may read his works to make the most of his gifts. With
                    high capacity and a natural talent for writing, he has an even deeper obligation than persons less
                    favored to subject himself to the best training obtainable.
            It is hard to conceive of one who is a careful investigator and a good writer of history as being
                    without the spirit of  scholarship. These things seem to go along
                    together. It is possible, nevertheless, for a graduate student in history or an outsider who dabbles
                    in historical writing to go on for a long time with no conception of the true meaning of historical
                    work. To put in the required time, to pass the examinations, to write the thesis—these
                    seem to be, to many candidates for the master's degree, all that can be asked of them.
                    Likewise to those who write history as a hobby, there often comes no feeling of responsibility and
                    no sense of obligation to be accurate and unbiased. They are often out to prove something, not to
                    search for the truth. Happily, there are both graduate students and amateur historians who are
                    untiring searchers after the facts, who feel that, above everything else, they must discover the
                    truth and who make a real effort to avoid prejudice. Such persons, if they can write well, or if
                    they can be trained or train themselves, to write well are of the salt of the earth.
            I have known candidates who reached the final examination for the doctor's degree with no
                    understanding of the meaning of the process. To them, it was pretty much a matter of residence and
                    credits, just as when they were moving through the grades, the high school and college. As every one
                    knows, there are those who write history, whether self-taught or trained in university seminars, with no reason beyond the desire to write books in order to obtain royalties or
                    get into the public eye, or both. This is not enough. Whether drawn to the work by natural
                    inclination or because of extensive training, or both, there is an ideal that should never be
                    lacking. Those who do research in history should be motivated first and last by a deep desire to
                    discover the truth, to make it available to others, and to combat error. With such desires they will
                    possess or cultivate the patience and skill necessary to thorough work. Those who write history must
                    first of all be willing and able to do the required research, and then they must have no deeper
                    anxiety than to present a truthful account. Other things such as are comprehended in the term
                    literary style are legitimate and highly desirable, but the spirit of scholarship is the primary
                    requisite of the historian.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  ∗Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               
                  ∗Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               
                  ∗ Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               
                  ∗Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
            
            A picture of John T. McKinney, a member of the Supreme Court of Indiana from 1831 to his death in
                    1837, is desired. Anyone who can supply a picture, or furnish information relative to one, will
                    kindly write to the Indiana University Librarian.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for a period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
            
            
               Contributors: John Perry Pritchett is professor of history at Queens College,
                    Flushing, 
                        New York
                    . John F. Cady is Dean of 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana. Albert Kleber is connected with St. Meinrad's Academy, St. Meinrad,
                    Indiana. H. S. K. Bartholomew is a retired newspaper man who lives at his country home,
                    "Edgewood," near 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. Homer Eiler now lives in retirement at Pasadena, 
                        California
                    . He is interested in genalogical research and has compiled a number of genealogical
                    booklets. Roger A. Hurst is Director of the Historical Records Survey of Indiana, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . William Luther Barker, deceased 1937, lived at Boonville, Indiana for many years. Max
                    Ehrmann is a well known poet whose home is at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. Holman Hamilton lives at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana, where he is editorial writer on the Journal-Gazette. R.
                    Carlyle Buley is associate professor of history at Indiana University. A. Dale Beeler is professor
                    of history at 
                        Butler
                     University. Mrs. Elizabeth S. Peak is a member of the history staff of 
                        Berea
                     College, 
                  Berea, Kentucky
               , and a writer of folk-lore poetry.
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            The Old Wilson Cemetery on White River
            
            EUGENE STUDEBAKER WIERBACH
            
               
                        Delaware
                     County, like many other counties in Indiana, is dotted with old abandoned cemeteries.
                    The average motorist speeding along country lanes and byways seldom gives them more than a passing
                    glance, but to the local historian or "family researcher," these burial grounds
                    are storehouses of information. Here, cut in stone and marble, are records usually copied from
                    Bibles many of which have disappeared. The Old Wilson Cemetery, which is situated four miles east of 
                        Muncie
                     on the Smithfield 
                        Pike
                    ,1 is one of many in 
                        Delaware
                     County with an interesting history. Here, buried along with others of his family, lie
                    the remains of Muncietown's first writing teacher, Anderson R. East.2
                    There is very little recorded information relative to this man. We first hear of him back in 1832 in
                    Liberty Township. There Asahel Thornburg,3 one of the early landowners in this
                    section, built a small log building for school purposes. In this place Mr. East taught school for
                    two winters, the Thornburg children attending as well as other children of the neighborhood. In
                    1835, he opened his first "Writing School" in the old frame Court House in
                    Muncietown, having from fifteen to twenty pupils at all times. Later, when a small brick schoolhouse
                    was built on east Main Street, he transferred his classes to that building.4 He
                    numbered among his students many of the younger members of the Gilbert, Anthony, Kirby, Jackson,
                    Blount and other representative families of the village. No doubt older persons availed themselves
                    of his "running style" of penmenship, which he offered along with lessons in
                    drawing and painting.
            
               
                  1 More exactly, the Wilson Cemetery is located on the old 
                            Muncie
                         and Winchester Turnpike, about four miles east of 
                            Muncie
                         on the farm formerly known as the Dr. Jump Farm, but now owned by Arthur Ball. The
                        acre of land, more or less, included in the Cemetery lies between the road and White
                            River.
               
                  2 T. B. Helm, History of 
                                Delaware
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1881), 205.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 256.
               
                  4 The issue of The Muncietonian for June 15, 1837 (
                            Muncie
                         Public Library), states that Mr. East had been appointed School Commissioner of 
                            Delaware
                         County to succeed Thomas Anthony who had resigned.
            
            
            
                    The Tombstone Records:
                
            John Wilson—d. Sept. 26, 1856; aged 45 yrs.
            Martha E. Wilson (wife of John Wilson)—b. April 9, 1822; d. July 29, 1861.
            Malinda B. Imlay (w. of J. C. Imlay)—d. March 26, 1858; aged 22 yrs., 2 mos., 13 days.
            John C. Imlay (son of J.C. & M.B.Imlay)—d. Nov. 16, 1857; aged 4 mos.
            Sarah Catherine Cook (dau. of Benj. Cook)—d. April 21, 1852; aged 1 yr.
            Mahala Cook (w. of Gilpin Cook)—d. Aug. 10, 1854; aged 33 yrs.
            James Osker McCall (son of Ezekiel and Hanna McCall)—d. Sept. 2, 1866, aged 8 yrs.
            William Edgar McCall (s. of E. and H. McCall)—d. Sept. 16, 1866; aged 8 yrs.
            Elizabeth Jackson (w. of Mahlon Jackson)—d. May 20, 1852; aged 34 yrs.
            James Jackson—d. July 22, 1835; aged 52 yrs.
            Martha Jackson (w. of James Jackson)—d. May 3, 1831; aged 62 yrs.
            James A. Goings (s. of David and Jane Goings)—d. in service of his country, April 10,
                    1863; aged 35 yrs.
            Margaret Goings (w. of David Goings)—d. April 8, 1853; aged 35 yrs.
            Sussanah [sic] Goings (w. of David Goings, Sr.)—d. Sept. 29, 1855; aged
                    71 yrs.; 2 mos.; 27 days.
            John H. East (s. of A.R. and M.East)—d. Nov. 23, 1845; aged 23 days.
            Martha East (dau. of A.R. and M.East)—d. May 13, 1835; aged 4 yrs.
            Andrew R. East—d. May 13, 1872; aged 25 yrs. 3 days.
            Elmer East (s. of A.R. and M.East)—d. Nov. 28, 1871; aged 9 days.
            Crockett East (s. of A.R. and M.East)—b. in 
                        Delaware
                     County, Ind., Oct. 15, 1832; fell at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , Pa., July 1, 1863; aged 24 yrs.; Second Lieut. in Co. K. 19th Ind. Vol.
            Eliza Luella East (dau. of J.H. and C.East—d. Oct. 12, 1855; aged 2 mos.
            Mollie East (w. of D.C.East)—d. May 12, 1865; aged 25 yrs.
            Mary East (dau. of J.H. and C.East)—d. April 11, 1864; aged 9 yrs.
            Mary East (w. of A.R.East)—d. July 23, 1877; aged 69 yrs., 5 mos., 24 days.
            A. R. East6—d. Nov. 28, 1880; aged 77 yrs., 4 mos., 27 days.
            
               
                  5 There are four additional graves marked only with flat stone slabs that
                        carry no inscriptions. The above records were copied by Eugene S. and Elizabeth M. Wierbach on
                        July 7, 1940. The form has been somewhat modified to make the items uniform.
               
                  6 Anderson R. East.
            
         
         
         
            Bible Record of the Evan Thomas Family
            HUGH TH. MILLER
            
            Evan Thomas1—b. Feb. 22, 1757; d. March 15, 1840; m. Hannah
                    —, Dec. 10, 1778.
            
               Children of Evan and Hannah Thomas: 
                  Elizabeth Thomas—b. Sept. 17, 1779.
                  Rhoda Thomas—b. Nov. 20, 1781.
                  Elias Thomas—b. Oct. 17, 1783; d. Aug. 2, 1840.
                  George Thomas—b. April 12, 1786.
                  Evan Thomas—b. June 2, 1788; d. May 31, 1853.
               
            
            Hannah, first wife of Evan Thomas, evidently died soon after the birth of Evan Thomas, Jr., though no
                    record can be found. Some of the pages of the Bible are so faded as to be illegible, while a few
                    pages have the corners worn off. Otherwise, it is a well preserved Bible. The record shows that Evan
                    Thomas, Sr., on January 29, 1789, married his second wife Sarah — (b. Feb. 15, 1770; d.
                    Dec. 25, 1806).
            
                    Children of Evan and Sarah Thomas:
                    
                  Booth Thomas—b. Jan. 18, 1790.
                  John Thomas—b. March 11, 1791.
                  Hannah Thomas—b. Nov. 28, 1792.
                  James Thomas—b. Aug. 4, 1794; d. Sept. 17, 1851.
                  Fremund Thomas—b. April 5, 1786.
                  Amos Thomas—b. —, 1798.
                  Bathsheba Thomas—b. Nov. 25, 1799.
                  — — [name torn off]—b. Oct. 2, 1801.
                  Anderson Thomas—b. Aug. 22, 1803.
                  Patience Thomas—b. Sept. 22, 1805.
               
                
            Evan Thomas, Sr., married his third wife, on December 25, 1810, Mary — (b. Sept. 3, 1764;
                    d. Feb. 28, 1843).
            A Rhoda Thomas who was a granddaughter of Evan Thomas, Sr., married William Smiley Miller of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana. They moved to the 
                        Shiloh
                     neighborhood of that county not long after the marriage. This Rhoda (Thomas) Miller is
                    mentioned in an article published in the last preceding issue of this quarterly.2 Many descendants of William S. and Rhoda (Thomas) Miller are now living in 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, and elsewhere in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                  1 The Evans Thomas family Bible is now in the possession of Hugh 
                            Van
                         Nuys Miller of 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana. He is a great-great grandson of Evan Thomas, Sr.
            
            
               
                  2 Hugh Th. Miller, "Chapman Denslow and His Family," Indiana Magazine of History (Dec., 1940), XXXVI, 358.
            
         
         
         
            Queries
            Query 113: THOMAS-VAUGHT FAMILY
            
            The inscription on my grandmother's tombstone reads: "Mary, daughter of J. and M.
                    Thomas." The Bible record reveals Mary's mother as Martha
                    Thomas, born in March, 1795, but no mention is made of her father. The family lived in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, where Mary Thomas was born on October 18, 1818. On March 10, 1835, she
                    married Andrew Jackson Vaught, also of 
                        Clark County
                    . The name of her father and the date of his marriage to Martha —,
                    Mary's mother, are wanted. Andrew J. Vaught's mother, Anny [sic], and her children came to 
                        Clark County
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    . Her husband George [?] Vaught died in 
                        Virginia
                    . Of the children, Andrew, George H., and Lucretia moved to 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, and reared families there. A son William moved to 
                        Iowa
                    , and another, Larkin Vaught, remained in 
                        Clark County
                     where he married. Any information relating to this Vaught family will be
                    appreciated.—Mrs. Charles B. Henderson, 
                        Franklin
                    , Ind.
            Query 114: BENEFIELD FAMILY
            
            George Benefield was a soldier in the Revolutionary War. He was born in 
                        York County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on December 25, 1759, and died in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, on April 1, 1832 [?]. He married Mary Buchanan in 1787. One record gives her
                    birth year as 1754, and places the date of her death in 1857. One of these dates is possibly
                    incorrect, since, as they stand, the age would be one hundred three. It is known that George and
                    Mary Benefield and their children, twelve in number, came to Indiana in 1814. One of the sons was
                    George Washington Benefield (1795–1854) who first married Ann Ryker. After her death, he
                    married Margery Van Cleave. The second marriage occurred in 1825. Who were the parents and
                    grandparents of George Benefield? Who were Mary Buchanan's parents, grandparents and
                    great-grandparents?—Mrs. J. C. (Lillian Gwyn) Stimson, 2521 No. 13th St., 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            Query 115: ARCHIBALD JOHNSTON FAMILY
            
            Archibald Johnston was born in 
                        Virginia
                     on October 3,  1773. Betsey Booth, who became his
                    wife was born on October 27, 1777, in 
                        Maryland
                    . Some years after the marriage (March 20, 1800), the couple came to live at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, or near there. This was as early as 1830, probably earlier. The husband died
                    on April 4, 1846, while the wife lived to be over one hundred years of age. Their children were:
                    Nancy (b. March 2, 1801; m. Lambeth Heath, Aug. 13, 1818); Sally (b. June 16, 1803; m. James Davis,
                    April 8, 1824); Betsey (b. Feb. 10, 1805; m. Daniel Trullinger, April 27, 1823); Nelly (b. Dec. 7,
                    1806; m. Jeremiah Heath, March 3, 1825); Jane (b. Dec. 2, 1808; m. Collin Forbes, Jan. 1, 1829);
                    Rebecca (b. Dec. 27, 1810; m. Riley Sarren, Sept. 13, 1827); Esther (b. April 8, 1813; m. William
                    Forbes, Aug. 12, 1830); Minty (b. June 16, 1815); Libby, or Isabel (b. June 30, 1818; m. Samuel
                    Smith, June 30, 1840; d. April 11, 1846). President Andrew Johnson was, it is claimed, a nephew of
                    Archibald Johnston, being the son of one of the six older brothers of Archibald. The name of this
                    brother was Jacob Johnston. He dropped the "t" from the name. I desire to know the
                    names of the parents of Archibald Johnston and Betsey Booth, with places of birth. I also wish to
                    learn the names and places of birth of the parents of William Forbes (b. Oct. 6, 1807, in
                            
                  Oneida County, New
                            York
               ), and likewise of Collin Forbes (b. May 7, 1803, in the same
                    county as William). I feel quite sure that William and Collin Forbes were Brothers. As stated above,
                    William Forbes married Esther Johnston at or near 
                        Terre Haute
                     (Aug. 12, 1830). They went to 
                        Iowa
                     to live.—Miss Margaret McCall, 5406, S. E. Ave., 
                        Portland
                    , 
                        Oregon
                    .
         
         
         
            Abstracts of Early Wills of 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana1
            
            DOROTHY RIKER
            
               Koster (or Coster), Nicolas.
               2 Will dated April 27, 1809;
                    probated November 8, 1809. Heir: William Rice. Witnesses: Peter McMickle, Elijah Harryman, Samuel
                    [illeg.] (
                        Harrison County
                     Will Record A, 1809–32, 7).
            
               Stephens, John. Will dated August 1, 1810; probated August 27, 1810. Heirs: wife,
                    Stacy Stephens; children, names not given except for son Charles who was to be bound to the tanning
                    and currying trade. Executors: Stacy Stephens, James Stephens. Witnesses: William Sands, Thomas
                    Infield (ibid., 8–10).
            
               Spencer, George. Died November 18, 1811.3 Nuncupative will
                    proved by Mason Carter, February 7, 1812. Spencer and Carter were privates in Captain Spier
                    Spencer's company at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Spencer was wounded in the battle and died on the return trip to 
                        Vincennes
                    . Before his death he told Mason Carter that he wished all his real and personal
                    property to be given to the four younger children of Ruth Walker of 
                        Nelson County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                     (ibid., 10–11).
            
               Oatman, Joseph. Will dated November 11, 1811; probated June 3, 1812. Heirs: wife,
                    Christiana Oatman; son-in-law, Beverly Hurst (husband of Elizabeth Oatman); sons, John, George;
                    minor children, Susannah, Jesse, Peggy, July Ann. Executors: James Scott and John Oatman. Witnesses:
                    Joseph Mayall, James Baird, Ebenezer Morgan, William Mitchell, Mark Trueblood (ibid., 12–16).
            
               Hamell (or Howell), Joseph. Will dated February 24, 1812; probated June 15, 1812.
                    Heirs: children, Mary, Daniel, Josiah. Witnesses: John and Andrew Johnson (ibid.,
                    16–17).
            
               Williams, William. Will dated October 8, 1812; probated November 16, 1812. Heirs:
                    wife, Ruth Williams; daughters: Elizabeth (wife of Joseph Winters), Sarah (wife of Philip Hoone),
                    Nancy (wife of John Gilmore), Margaret (wife of John Allon), Ruth (wife of Francis Hamilton),
                    Hannah; sons, William, James, John, Barnerd, and Ford. Executor: Ruth Williams. Witnesses: William
                    Marsh, Sr., Thomas Young (ibid., 18–20).
            
               Maxwell, Joseph. Will dated October 27, 1811; probated April 15, 1813. Heirs: wife,
                    Hannah Maxwell; daughter, Sarah Berry; names of other children not given. Maxwell made his will
                    before starting 
                  
                     1 Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                Harrison County
                            , Indiana, Will Record A, 1809–32, made for the Historical Records
                            Survey, Works Progress Administration, in 1936, and deposited in the Archives Division of
                            the Indiana State Library.
                  
                     2 Koster taught school within the boundaries of the present 
                                Washington County
                             during the winter of 1808–9. Warder W. Stevens, Centennial History of 
                                    Washington County
                                , Indiana …. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 594–95.
                  
                     3 "John 
                                Tipton
                            's 
                                Tippecanoe
                             Journal," in Indiana Magazine of History (Dec.,
                            1906), II, 183.
               
                     on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     expedition. No executor named. Witnesses: James, Joseph, and Sarah Maxwell (ibid., 21–22).
            
               Byrn, William. Will dated March 29, 1813; probated May 12, 1813. Heirs: wife,
                    Christiana Byrn; children, names not given. Executors: Temple Byrn and Beverly B. Boston. Witnesses:
                    Johnson Vest, Charles L. Byrn, Daniel McCoy (ibid., 22–23).
            
               Wright, Eli. Will dated September 9, 1813; probated October 2, 1813. Heirs: wife,
                    Pheba Wright; children, Jonathan, Eli, Ruban, Rebecca, Elizabeth, Joel, Joseph, Polly. Executor:
                    son, Jonathan Wright. Witnesses: John George Pfrimmer, George F. Pope (ibid.,
                    24–28).
            
               Gresham, William. Will dated September 25, 1813; probated November 5, 1813. Heirs:
                    wife, Rebeckah Gresham; children, names not given. Executors: George Gresham, Dennis Pennington.
                    Witnesses: Folly Rumbly, Ann Critchfield, Philip Gresham (ibid.,
                    29–30).
            
               Barnaby, Robert. Will dated October 20, 1813; probated December 6, 1813. Heirs:
                    wife, Sarah Barnaby; children, names not given. Executors: Absalom Hart and Patrick Shields.
                    Witnesses: Daniel Cline, George Watts (ibid., 30–31).
            
               Lofton (or Loftau), Isaac. Will dated January
                    23, 1813; probated December 10, 1813. Heirs: sons, Thomas, William, Isaac; daughter, Polly Foglun
                    (?). No executor named. Witness: Martin Royce (ibid., 31–33)
            
               Downs, William. Nuncupative will sworn to by his sons, William Elias, and James,
                    July 25, 1814. Heirs: wife, Fanny Downs (ibid., 33–34).
            
               Wright, Pheba. Will dated August 30, 1814; probated, June 30, 1815. Heirs: sons,
                    Ruban, Jonathan, Eli, Joel, Joseph; daughters, Rebecca, Elizabeth, Polly. Executor: son, Jonathan
                    Wright. Witnesses: Jacob Conrod, B. Withers (ibid., 35–38).
            
               Jenkins, David. Will dated September 6, 1815; probated October 23, 1815. Heirs:
                    wife, Mason Jenkins; brother, Jeremiah Jenkins. Executors: Cornelius Hall and Malice Mauck.
                    Witnesses: Martin H. Tucker and William Scott (ibid., 39–40).
            
               Conrod (or Coonrod, Conrad), Jacob. Will dated
                    July 6, 1815; probated November Term, 1815. Heir: wife, Catherine Conrod; sons, Jacob and Henry;
                    son-in-law, Israel Butt, who married May Conrod; sister's daughter, Susan Williss;
                    grandson, George Washington Conrod. Executors: Henry Conrod, Israel Butt. Witnesses: Philip Wiseman,
                    Philip Trester (ibid., 41–42).
            
               Barnett, John. Will dated March 22, 1815; probated October 25, 1816. Heirs: wife
                    (name not given); sons, Alexander, James; sons-in-law, Joseph Hall, Elisha Moore; grandchildren,
                    Rachel and Samuel Lawrence (children of William Lawrence). Executor not named. Witnesses: James and
                    William Rawlins. Barnett owned land in 
                        Kentucky
                     (ibid., 43–44).
            
               Young, Jacob. Will dated February 27, 1815; probated October 25, 1816. Heirs: wife
                    (name not given); children: Jacob, Jr., John, Abraham, Elizabeth (wife of Martin Homes?), Eve (wife
                    of John  Kephart), Mary. Executors: sons, Jacob and John Young.
                    Witnesses: Elijah Creswell, John Flickner, Jacob Yanowine (ibid.,
                    44–46).
            
               Ham, David. Will dated July 16, 1817; probated January 3, 1818. Heirs: wife, Rhoda
                    Ham; children, Mahala, John Lopp, Eliza, Matthias. Executor: wife, Rhoda Ham. Witnesses: Andrew
                    Beeman, John Stonecipher, Stephen T. Beeman (ibid., 46–48).
            
               Fouts, David. Will dated September 25, 1817; probated January 5, 1818. Heirs: wife,
                    Amelia Fouts; children, names not given except for daughter, Elizabeth Sapenfield. Executors: Amelia
                    Fouts and George Avery. Witnesses: Temple C. Byrn, Zachariah Ingram, John McCrary, John Henson (ibid., 49–50).
            
               Beard, Samuel. Will dated October 3, 1818; probated November 14, 1819. Heirs: wife,
                    Grizzle; children, Isaac, Rachel, Nancy. Executors: Grizzle and Isaac Beard. Witnesses: Jesse Craig,
                    Peter Beard, Philip Bell (ibid., 51–52).
            
               Wheeler, Timothy. Will dated April 7, 1820; probated May 13, 1820. Heirs: David
                    Young of 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana; brother, William Wheeler of Waitsfield, 
                        Vermont
                    , and the latter's children, William, Silas, Timothy, Mehitabel (?), and David.
                    Executor: David Young. Witnesses: George Bentley, Alexander Brownlee (ibid.,
                    53–54).
            
               Miles, Joseph. Will dated March 21, 1820; probated June 3, 1820. Heirs: wife, Nancy
                    Miles; children, Lavary B., William (I. or J.), Lucinda. Executors: wife and brother, Isaac Miles.
                    Witnesses: William Duggins, Minee Miles, Zephaniah Miles (ibid.,
                    55–57).
            
               Lamb, Joshua. Will dated April 7, 1820. Probated July 24, 1820. Heirs: wife, Easter
                    Lamb; children, Jesse, Elizabeth, Sarah, Hutdy (?), Thomas, Jeremiah, Martha, Marian, Eli, Josiah;
                    Betty Henson's children (she was wife of William Henson and daughter or step-daughter of
                    Joshua Lamb). Executors: Easter Lamb and William Henson. Witnesses: John Jackson, Joseph Henson,
                    Daniel Tremble (ibid., 58–59).
            
               Blunk, Andrew, Sr. Will dated May 1, 1821; probated June 29, 1821. Heirs: wife,
                    Mary Blunk; children, Andrew, John, Joseph, Rachel, Sarah; Thomas Blunk, Elizabeth and Mary Markwell
                    (relationship not given). Executor: Mary Blunk. Witnesses: William D. Carter, Alexander McRae (ibid., 60–63).
            
               Mauck, John. Will dated October 26, 1816; probated November 3, 1821. Heirs: wife,
                    Christina Mauck; children, Barbara Grable, Catherine Grable (wife of Benjamin Grable), Jonathan,
                    Peter, Frederick; son-in-law, John Pitman (husband of Elizabeth Mauck); grandson, John Grable (son
                    of Christian and Barbara Grable); heirs of deceased son, John Mauck. Executor: John Pitman.
                    Witnesses: Richard M. Heth, James Samuels (ibid., 64–70).
            
               Wynne, Joshua. Will dated October 11, 1821; probated February 2, 1822. Heirs: wife,
                    Nancy Wynne; children, Joshua, John R., Thomas, Frances, Patty Beazly. Executor: son, John R. Wynne.
                    Witnesses: Jonathan Hall, Samuel McCurry (ibid., 71–72).
            
               Flannery, James. Will dated February —, 1822; probated February 26,
                    1822. Heir: Elizabeth Vigus, infant daughter of Jordan  and
                    Elizabeth Vigus. Executor: Jordan Vigus. Witnesses: James B. Slaughter, Robert A. New, John Mefford
                        (ibid., 73–76).
            
               Hutson, David. Nuncupative will proved by James Evans and Fielding Cromwell on May
                    14, 1822. Hutson stated to them on or about January 10, 1822, the disposition he wished made of his
                    property. Heirs: wife, Rebecca Hutson; sons, John, Robert, David, William, James (youngest);
                    daughters, Isabel, Mary, Martha, Hannah (ibid., 77–78).
            
               Boone, Isaiah. Will dated May 28, 1822; probated June 27, 1822. Heirs: wife, Mary
                    M. Boone. Executors: wife and father, Jonathan Boone. Witnesses: Adam Douglas, Lyman Stanford,
                    Thomas Young, Septemeas Tomlinson (ibid., 79–80).
            
               McVitty, Samuel. Will dated September 6, 1822; probated September 23, 1822. Heir:
                    wife, Rachel McVitty. Executors: wife and Adam C. Smith. Witnesses: Thomas Pritchard, James B.
                    Slaughter, William McVitty (ibid., 81–82).
            
               Wood, Eli. Will dated October 26, 1821; probated October 22, 1822. Heirs: wife,
                    Elizabeth Wood; daughters, Sarah Coolly, Rebecca Carathers, Susannah Roe; sons, Eli, Elexander,
                    Jacob, John. Executor: son, John. Witnesses: Benjamin King, William Mavity (ibid.,
                    82–83).
            
               Funk, Jacob. Will dated August 19, 1822; probated October 3, 1822. Heirs: wife,
                    Elizabeth Funk; sons, Isaac, Abraham, William, Jacob (a gunsmith, whereabouts unknown); daughters,
                    Lydia, Sarah Barkison, Catherine, Elizabeth; grandchildren, Jacob, George, John, Elizabeth, Polly
                    Wall (children of John Wall), Jacob, George, Mary, and Elizabeth Hardin. Executor: John Snider, Sr.
                    Witnesses: William Watson, Joseph Abbott (?), Isaac, William, and Abraham Funk (ibid., 84–86).
            
               Stephenson, James. Will dated September 20, 1822; probated October 11, 1822. Heirs:
                    wife, Elizabeth Stephenson and children, names not given. Executor: father, James Stephenson.
                    Witnesses: William Stevenson, Craven Lynn (ibid., 87–88).
         
         
         
            Some Additions to the Genealogy Collection in the Indiana State Library1
            
            ANNA POUCHER
            FAMILY HISTORIES
            Allen family of Medford, Mass. Allen, 1869.
            Allen family of Sandwich, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Mass. Wright, 1939.
            Allison family lineage. Charts. Allison, 1940.
            Ashley genealogy. Trowbridge, 1896.
            Boston family. 
                        Boston
                    , 1930.
            Boucher, Jacques Timothe. Whitefort, 1939.
            Broadus family. Broadus, 1888.
            Collins family, 1740–50–1940. Collins, 1940.
            Crosby family. Crosby, 1877.
            Denslow family, excerpts from complete manuscripts. Roberts, 1940.
            DuVal, Daniel, and Sally Carter, Bible records. Hayes, 1940.
            Eastman, Joseph, of Hadley, Mass. Rix, 1908.
            Eliot family. Eliot, 1854.
            Fesler-Roush family of 
                        Morgan county
                    , Indiana. Valentine, 1940. Gadd genealogy. Gadd, 1939.
            Garvin, Thomas E. Garvin, 1907.
            Hamblen and allied families. Hamblen, 1940.
            Harris, Thomas, of Ipswich, Mass. Harris, 1883.
            Hart family (Samuel Hartt). Hart, 1903.
            Heinecke, Adam, and Henry Vandersaal. Heinecke, 1869.
            Hixson family of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Lookout Pub. Co., 
                        Chattanooga
                    , 1940.
            Hosier family of 
                        Randolph
                     Co., N.C., and Henry Co., Ind. Hosier, 1940.
            Hughes and allied families. Hughes, 1879.
            Hunt family. Wyman, 1862–63.
            Huntington family. 
                        Huntington
                    , 1863.
            Hunton, Philip, and descendants. Hunton, 1881.
            Jarvis family, Mass., Long Island, etc. Jarvis, 1879.
            Johnson, Abraham, and descendants. Davis, 1939.
            Lancaster family. 
                        Lancaster
                    , 1902.
            McCoy family, Notes on. McCoy, 1939.
            McMillen, Hugh, and Lydia Southwick. Wright, 1940.
            Marsh family (George). Marsh, 1887.
            Millikan family. Millikan, 1940.
            Nickey family in America. Milligan, 1940.
            Oberholtzer, Jacob. Loomis, 1931.
            Olds (Old, Ould) family in 
                        England
                     and America. Olds, 1915.
            Pavey family of 
                        Ohio
                    . 2v. Pavey, 1940.
            Peffley family supplement, including Garst, Sherfey, Graybill and Peffley. Frost, 1940.
            Prewitt-Light, Ringler-Hollowell and allied families. Prewitt, 1939.
            Rand-Hale-Strong and allied families. Rand, 1940.
            Reid, Gaston, Simonton families in America. McPherson, 1939.
            
               
                  1 The last previous list appeared in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History (March, 1940), XXXVI, 87–91.
            
            
            Reynolds, Henry, and descendants. Reynolds, 1933.
            Rogers, Giles, Descendants of. Rogers, 1940.
            Rose Cottage (Briggs, Cobb and other families). Briggs, 1940.
            Roseberry, Miller and Denslow families. Roseberry, n.d.
            Shattuck, William, and descendants. Shattuck, 1855.
            Sherwood, Daniel L., and paternal ancestors. Sherwood, 1929.
            Spooner, William, of 
                        Plymouth
                    , Mass. Spooner, 1883.
            Stephens, Peter, and some of his descendants, 1690–1935. Stephens, 1936.
            Stephens family genealogies, 1690–1938. Stephens, 1940.
            Teall, Genealogical records in 
                        England
                     and America. Dunn. 1926.
            Teel and Ross families. Teel. 1940.
            Wadsworth family in America. Wadsworth. 1883.
            Warren family. Emeline Fairbanks Memorial Library. 1940.
            Watson, Thomas, and Rebecah Moorman. Watson. 1940.
            Wells and related families. Cushing. 1903.
            Williams, Jonathan, of 
                        Wayne
                    , LaPorte and Porter counties, Indiana. Williams. 1910–1915.
            Wilmot-Wilmoth, Wilmeth families. Wilmeth. 1940.
            Woodward, Nathaniel. Woodward. 1940.
            LOCAL HISTORIES
            
                    
                  
                            California
                        :
                
            History of … with biographical records. Guinn, 1903.
            
                    
                  
                            Connecticut
                        :
                
            Guilford, Yesteryears of. Griswold, 1938.
            Wallingford, History of, 1668–1935. Newell, 1940.
            Waterbury, History of. Bronson, 1858.
            
                    
                  
                            Delaware
                        :
                
            Wilmington. Records of Holy Trinity Church, 1697–1773. Hist. Soc. Del., 1890.
            
                    
                  
                            Illinois
                        :
                
            
               
                        Chicago
                    , History of, v.2, 1848–1871. Pierce, 1940.
            
               
                        Cook County
                    , History of. Andreas, 1884.
            
               
                        Effingham County
                    , History of. Perrin, 1883.
            Historical Encyclopedia of 
                        Illinois
                    , II, Pt. 1. Bateman, 1912.
            
               
                        Vermillion
                     County, Past and present of. Chapman Bros., 1903.
            
                    
                  
                            Kentucky
                        :
                
            First census of, 1790. Heinemann, comp., 1940.
            
               
                        Lexington
                    , History of Pioneer, 1779–1806. Staples, 1939.
            Military History of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Federal Writers' Project, 1939.
            
                    
                  
                            Maine
                        :
                
            
               
                        Georgetown
                    , Vital records to the year 1892, I. Hill, 1939.
            
                    
                  
                            Maryland
                        :
                
            Archives, XXVI. Proceedings and acts of General Assembly, 1758–1761. 1939.
            
                    
                  
                            Massachusetts
                        :
                
            Ashburnham, History of, 1734–1886. Stearns, 1887.
            Billerica, History of. Hazen, 1883.
            Deerfield, Guide to Old Deerfield. Coleman, 1907.
            Dunstable, History of, to 1873. Nason, 1877.
            
               
                        Plymouth
                    , Guide to, and Recollections of Pilgrims. Russell, 1846.
            
            
               
                        Watertown
                     records, v.7–8. Town clerk, 1939.
            Journal of House of Representatives, 1738–1739. 1935.
            
                    
                  
                            New Hampshire
                        :
                
            
               
                        Goshen
                    , Historical and industrial sketch of, 1769–1903. Nelson, 1903.
            Probate records, v.38, 1764–1767. 
                        Hammond
                    , ed., 1939.
            
                    
                  
                            New Jersey
                        :
                
            Archives, v.35, Wills, 1781–1785. 1939.
            Dunellen, Story of. Federal Writers' Project, 1937.
            History of 
                        New Jersey
                    . Gordon, 1834.
            Raccoon and Penn's Neck, Swedish Lutheran church records, 1713–1786. 1938.
            Scotch Plains, Cemetery records of Baptist cemetery. Marsh, 1940.
            
                    
                  
                            New York
                        :
                
            
               
                        New York
                     Genealogical and Biographical Society Collections, IX, Dutch Reformed church,
                    1639–1801. 1940.
            
               
                        Washington County
                    , History of. Johnson, 1878.
            
                    
                  
                            North Carolina
                        :
                
            
               
                        North Carolina
                     State Library. Catalogue, July, 1934-January, 1941.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                        :
                
            
               
                        Champaign
                     County, History of. Beers, 1881.
            
               
                        Columbiana County
                    , History of, and representative citizens. McCord, 1905.
            
               
                        Franklin
                     and Pickaway counties. Williams Bros., 1880.
            
               
                        Geauga County
                    , Pioneer and general history of. Hist. Soc. of Geauga Co., 1880.
            
               
                        Hancock County
                    , History of. Beardsley, 1881.
            Ross and Highland counties, History of. Williams Bros., 1880.
            
                    
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                        :
                
            Fort Pitt and Letters from the Frontier. Darlington, 1892.
            
                    
                  
                            South Carolina
                        :
                
            Original Lists of Protestant Immigrants to 
                        South Carolina
                    , 1763–1773. Revill, comp., 1939.
            
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                        :
                
            
               
                        Hamilton County
                     and 
                        Chattanooga
                    , II. Armstrong, 1931.
            
                    
                  
                            Virginia
                        :
                
            
               
                        Amherst County
                    , Marriage bonds and other marriage records. Sweeny, comp., 1937.
            
               
                        Franklin County
                    , Marriage Bonds, 1786–1858. Wingfield, 1939.
            
               
                        Hanover County
                     Chancery Wills and Notes. Cocke, 1940.
            
               
                        Hanover county
                    . Vestry Book of 
                        St. Paul
                    's Parish, 1706–1786. Chamberlayne, 1940.
            Isle of 
                        Wight County
                    , Marriages, 1628–1800. Chapman, comp., 1933.
            
               
                        Virginia
                     Genealogies and County Records. Burns, 1941.
            
                    
                  
                            Wisconsin
                        :
                
            History of Northern 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Western Hist. Soc., 1881.
            FOREIGN MATERIAL
            
                    
                  
                            Canada
                        :
                
            An Account of Early Settlement in Upper 
                        Canada
                    . Lamond, 1940.
            
                    
                  
                            England
                        :
                
            Manceter, Warwick, History and Antiquities of. Bartlett, 1791.
            
            Lowestoft, Suffolk, Historical Account of. Gillingwater, 1790.
            Suffolk in 1524. Suffolk Green Books, 
                        London
                    , 1910.
            Harleian Soc. Publications—
            Registers, 67, 68, 69, 70.
            Visitations, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92.
            Palaeography, Genealogy and Topography, Catalogue. Moulton, 
                        London
                    , 1930.
            PATRIOTIC AND HISTORICAL SOCIETIES
            
                    Colonial Dames:
                
            Register of the 
                        Connecticut
                     Society, 1893–1939.
            
                    Colonial Wars:
                
            Material deposited by the Society of Colonial Wars in the State of Indiana:
            Welcome Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Records and activities, 1940.
            
               
                        Rhode Island
                     Society. Record of Unveiling of Monument Commemorating Great Swamp Fight.
            Registers and Yearbooks— 
                  
                     
                                Maine
                            , 1905.
                  
                     
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1906.
                  
                     
                                Missouri
                            , 1904–1906.
                  
                     
                                New Hampshire
                            , 1907.
                  
                     
                                New York
                            , 1906–7, 1936–38.
                  
                     
                                Vermont
                            , 1906, 1935–39.
                  
                     
                                Minnesota
                            , Report of Secretary, 1900–1903.
               
            
            
                    Daughters of the American Revolution:
                
            Indiana chapters—
            Caroline Scott Harrison, 
                        Indianapolis
                    :
            Marriages in 
                        Marion
                     county, 1851–1860.
            Index to Supplemental Record, Federal Census, 
                        Marion
                     county, 1880, A-Cool. 1940.
            Fort Harrison, 
                        Terre Haute
                    :
            Additional Lineages of members. 1940.
            Francis Vigo, 
                        Vincennes
                    :
            Cemetery records. 1940.
            General de 
                  Lafayette, Lafayette
               :
            Register of St. John's Episcopal church, June, 1837–June, 1898. 1940.
            General Washburn, 
                        Greencastle
                    :
            Marriage records, 1822–1843. 1940.
            Hoosier Elm, Corydon:
            Cemetery records. 1941 (compiled independently by F. P. Griffin).
            John Paul Jones, 
                        Madison
                    :
            Bayless cemetery, 
                        Madison
                     Township.
            Graveyards, 
                        Monroe
                     Township (removals).
            Schuyler Colfax, 
                        South Bend
                    :
            Death records, Pt. 3, 1940.
            
               
                  2 Names of separate cemeteries cannot be given here, but complete records
                        may be found in the Genealogy Room of the Indiana State Library. Records compiled by D.A.R.
                        chapters are listed under the separate chapters.
            
            
            William Oard, 
                        Brazil
                    :
            Lineage Book of Chapter. 1940.
            General—
            Catalogue of Genealogical and Historical Works in Library of the National Society, 
                        Washington
                    . 1940.
            Story of the Records. Nat. Soc. D.A.R. Lockwood and Sherwood, 1906.
            
               
                        Washington
                     State chapter—History and Register, 1924. Yearbook, 1933.
            Daughters of Founders and Patriots:
            Gifts from the Indiana chapter to the Genealogy Section—
            Burke's Landed Gentry with American families. 1938.
            Soldiers of King Philip's War. Bodge, 1906.
            Some Colonial Mansions (2 vols.) Glenn, 1897–99.
            Mayflower Descendants:
            Material deposited by the Society of, in the State of Indiana—
            Anniversary Yearbook, 1916–1941.
            Doty, Abraham, History and Descendants. Doty, 1940. Homes and Haunts of Pilgrim fathers. Mackennal,
                    1899.
            John Howland, Mayflower Pilgrim. Howland, 1926.
            Sons of the American Revolution:
            Deposited by the Indiana Society—
            Minute Books and other records of the Society.
            Indiana Historical Society—Committee on Pioneer Cemeteries and Churches:
            Records from over 90 cemeteries in the following counties: Cass, 
                        Dearborn
                    , Gibson, Hendricks, 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Monroe
                    , Owen, Parke and 
                        Putnam
                    .
            MISCELLANEOUS
            Battle of Croton Heights, Conn. Avery, 1931.
            Battle of Point Pleasant, 1774. Poffenbarger, 1909.
            
               
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana. Records of St. John's Church, 1837–1927. Linn, 1940.
            Encyclopedia of American 
                        Quaker
                     Genealogy, III, 
                        New York
                    . Hinshaw, 1940.
            Heralds and Heraldry in the Middle Ages. Wagner, 1939.
            Historic Heraldry of Britain. Wagner, 1939.
            Irish Family Names, with origins, meanings, clans, arms, crests and mottoes. Kelly, 1939.
            Order Book of Capt. Leonard Bleeker, Campaign of 1779, 
                        New York
                    . 1865.
            NEW PERIODICALS
            
               Genealogy and History, 1940.
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Families, June, 1940.
            INDEXES IN PROCESS
            Indiana Census—Mortality records, 1850, 1860, 1870, 1880.
            
               
                        Boston
                     Transcript Scrapbooks of Genealogical Clippings. 
                        Hartford
                     Times Scrapbooks of Genealogical Clippings.
         
      
   
