
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 45, Issue 3, pages 221-326. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:45+issue:3+year:1949&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Heroic Age of the Social Sciences
            Robert S. Fletcher*
            
            History, political theory, and economics were not wholly neglected even in the colonial colleges. But
                    history was chiefly treated as the handmaiden of theology and the Greek and Latin classics, while
                    economic and political matters were dealt with in the courses in moral philosophy and ethics.
            The American Revolution and the experience of constitution-making gave a great impetus to the study
                    of politics. In 1779, Thomas Jefferson was instrumental in bringing about a notable revision of the
                    curriculum of William and Mary College whereby more emphasis was placed upon political studies; by
                    1792 a knowledge of "National Law, Law of Nations, and the general principles of
                    politics" was required for graduation. Other colleges followed this example. In the two
                    succeeding generations the Federalist was listed as a text in many catalogs, and
                    Locke, Rousseau, Montesquieu, and the Declaration of Independence were often included in required
                    reading. New books on moral philosophy appeared with an expanded political emphasis. In 1795 a
                    professor at 
                        Columbia
                     published a Systematic Treatise on Moral Philosophy: Comprehending the Law
                        of Nature—Ethics—Natural Jurisprudence—General
                        Economy—Politics—and the Law of Nations which he optimistically hoped
                    would "inflame the American youth with a true love for their country."1
            
            The first rumblings of the industrial revolution produced a greater emphasis on economics (or
                    political economy, as it was called). Adam Smith's famous but wordy and difficult 
                  
                     * Robert S. Fletcher is a member of the history department
                            at Oberlin College, Oberlin Oho. This paper was read at the Indiana History Teachers
                            Association session at the Thirtieth Annual Indiana History Conference at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, on December 11, 1948.
                  
                     1 Anna Haddow, Political Science in American Colleges and
                                Universities, 1636–1900 (
                                New York
                            , c. 1939), 44–46, 65, 82n.
               
                    
                    Wealth of Nations continued to be studied, but gave way to, or was supplemented
                    by, various new, American-made textbooks. Separate courses in political economy appeared in the
                    early years of American protectionism following the War of 1812. Before the Civil War a speaker at a
                    meeting of the Indiana State Teachers Association (then including at least as many college as
                    public-school teachers) recommended that all Western institutions of collegiate grade provide for
                    the teaching of political economy "on account of the simplicity of its facts and the
                    breadth of its generalizations."2
            
            The early textbooks in political economy were notable for the "breadth" of their
                    "generalizations," depending as they did chiefly on deductive reasoning. Something
                    like an inductive process was more likely to be adopted in history because of the availability of
                    more data. Frangois P. G. Guizot's History of Civilization, translated
                    from the French, was the most widely used textbook of this period, and its emphasis on the unity of
                    western culture has had a long-term influence. Textbooks are important because of the dependence at
                    that time on rote learning and the general use of the question-and-answer method of instruction.
                    Some history texts even had the lines of type on each page numbered in the margin so that the exact
                    wording could be assigned for memorizing.
            Students were not expected to use the library, though collections of books were maintained in all
                    colleges for their amusement and amazement. A hundred years ago Indiana University bragged that its
                    library contained five thousand volumes. Students who paid fifty cents a semester were allowed to
                    take out one volume every Saturday. The Wesleyan University library at 
                  Middletown, Connecticut
               , had eleven thousand books and was open every Monday and Thursday
                    for half an hour. The Bowdoin library was open three hours a week, the library at Williams, two
                    hours. At the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     no effort was being made to get new books because the shelves were already crowded.3
            
            But, despite the fact that the courses in history and the other social studies were few and poorly
                    taught, they seemed so much more practical and more closely related to the world of everyday
                    experience than the traditional classics, mathematics 
                  
                     2 W. M. Wightman, "A Course of Study for College,"
                                Indiana School Journal (46 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866–1900), V (1860), 80–81.
                  
                     3 Charles c. Jewett, Notices of the Public Libraries in
                                the United States of America (Washington, 1851), 8, 68, 148, 186.
               
                     and philosophy that they shared increasing popularity with the
                    natural sciences. The students showed a surer sense of the probable future trend of educational
                    practice than most educators.
            And many young men got an education in college despite the barriers placed in their way. Francis
                    Parkman was a bit remiss in preparing for and attending his classes at 
                        Harvard
                    , but his wide reading along the lines of his hobby has made a lasting impression on the
                    record of American historical literature. Many got their education in the social studies chiefly
                    through their preparations for debates and orations at the meetings of the ubiquitous literary
                        societies.4 The mid-century saw the rise of college journalism, sponsored
                    often by these same societies, and, therefore, other students entered the fields of the social
                    sciences and of literature through the gateway of journalism.5
            
            It was high time by the 1870's that more educators got busy and caught up with their
                    students.
            Meanwhile, in Germany a remarkable group of scholars was developing a more scientific approach to the
                    study of man in society. Most American colleges had treated education as a process of pouring a
                    fixed quantity of eternal truth into the heads of passive (and probably somnolent) youth. These
                    Germans said that, as final truth was not fully known and never would be, higher education should
                    consist of a continuing search for truth—a truth which would be a constantly changing
                    synthesis of critical interpretations of data drawn from the careful observation of original
                    sources. There had long been American scholars and teachers who had a similar conception, but they
                    had refused to take their students into their confidence. Some of them struggled with the problem of
                    truth in the privacy of their studies, but then came forth with a more-or-less reasonable facsimile
                    of a finished product which they insisted their students should accept on authority.
            The German Herr Professor proposed to take his students backstage, right into the
                    workshop, and encourage them 
                  
                     4 David Potter, Debating in the Colonial Chartered
                                Colleges: An Historical Survey, 1642–1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1944).
                  
                     5 Herbert B. Adams wrote that his work on the Amherst student paper
                            determined his life work. J. M. Vincent "Herbert B. Adams: A Biographical
                            Sketch," in Herbert B. Adam: Tribute of Friends, Johns Hopkins
                            University Studies in Historical and Political Science
                                    (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     , 1883-), Extra Vol. XX (1902).
               
                     to learn the techniques and participate in the search. The
                    tools to be used were: the seminar (a small class of co-operating seekers for truth), the research
                    library, and the formal lecture for the personal presentation of the latest, always-tentative
                    synthesis. To speed the process by cross-fertilization, new discoveries were published in learned
                    journals or as separate monographs, and the migration of students between institutions was
                    encouraged. Essential and most difficult of all was the development of an attitude of unsparing and
                    objective critical realism. In fact, the encouragement of this attitude was in itself a chief end of
                    the new higher education.
            Throughout the mid-century most American college teachers were the products of graduate work in the
                    divinity schools, where they received the best training available in the United States at the time.
                    A scattering had studied abroad, but it was not until after Appomattox and Sedan that the great rush
                    from the United States to the German universities took place. In the last quarter of the century
                    some thousands of American young men drank the beer of Heidelberg, Halle, and Berlin, and some,
                    though by no means all, felt the stimulation of that even headier brew, the new historical
                    scholarship of the German lecture hall and seminar.6
            
            As early as 1857, Andrew D. White began his historical lectures at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , where he thrilled the students of the leading Western state university with an echo of
                    the new approach.7 At Amherst by 1883 at least a third of the faculty had had
                    some German training.8 Jeremiah Jenks came from 
                        Knox
                     to Indiana to teach economics in 1889; he had a Ph.D. from Halle. William F. Allen,
                    also German trained, taught history at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He was the discoverer and personal sponsor of Frederick Jackson Turner. By the end of
                    the eighties there was hardly a college in the East or Middle West without at least one Herr Doktor in some department—in philosophy, philology or the natural or
                    social sciences.
            
               
                  6 Charles F. Thwing, The American and the German University:
                            One Hundred Years of History The American (
                            New York
                        , 1928).
               
                  7 See quotation from Charles K. Adams in Charles M. Andrews,
                        "These Forty Years, American Historical Review (
                            New York
                        , 1895-), XXX (1924–1926). 232.
               
                  8 Thomas Le ‘Due, Piety and Intellect at Amherst
                            College, 1865–1912 (
                            New York
                        , 1946), 60.
            
            
            Wherever they appeared they introduced the formal lecture, a tool so effective in the hands of the
                    scholarly, personable, enthusiastic, and courageous, but so deadly when used by the lazy, the timid,
                    the time-serving, and uninspired. (Some want to abolish it today. This would eliminate some of the
                    worst college teaching—and some of the best.) With them they brought also a professional
                    pride in their rôle as leaders in the battle of civilization against ignorance,
                    provincialism, and obscurantism, a pride which was pitiful and heroic in the era of the rising
                    plutocracy.
            Here and there (particularly if their names happened to be Adams) they gathered together the more
                    promising undergraduates and some graduate students into seminars to participate in the organized
                    search for truth, to learn by doing, to use the "project method" in the field of
                    history and the allied social studies. These men taught facts but, more than that, they taught
                    intellectual orderliness and system, a fanatic devotion to verifiable data, and respect for society
                    and the historic institutions of society. From Germany, too, they imported a new insistence on
                    academic freedom, for in Germany at that time university professors enjoyed such prestige that they
                    spoke without fear of financial sanctions or ostracism even on controversial economic or religious
                    issues. There was no effective tariff on ideas.
            And home-manufactured higher education developed without any such "protection."
                    Down in 
                        Baltimore
                     a philanthropic, 
                        Quaker
                     whisky broker left a magnificent legacy for the founding of a new institution of higher
                    learning. When Johns Hopkins University opened in 1876, Daniel Coit Gilman, its first president,
                    announced that the main emphasis would be on the training of college graduates by the German methods
                    for careers of research and college teaching.
            Hopkins in its first twenty years fulfilled the most sanguine expectations, transplanting and
                    acclimating German scholarship in the American environment. Here the emphasis was put on the quality
                    of the faculty rather than physical plant; and the institution was thought of as a society of
                    scholars like the universities of the middle ages rather than a campus and buildings. President
                    Gilman assembled a distinguished faculty—in the classics, in mathematics, in natural
                    sciences, and in the social sciences.
            Herbert Baxter Adams and Richard T. Ely, both German  trained,
                    were the key teachers in the social sciences. Together they ran the famous historical seminar from
                    which came so many of the truly heroic figures in the fields of history, economics, political
                    science, and sociology. Once a week masters and students sat down together around the "long
                    dull red table" in the seminar room, where the chief books needed in their researches were
                    gathered on the shelves of the alcoves about them. With the busts of Cicero, Machiavelli, 
                        Hamilton
                    , and Calhoun looking down upon them, they listened to young Frederick Jackson Turner
                    discuss the fur trade, heard a book review by young Walter Hines Page, stayed overtime as young
                    Woodrow Wilson read a chapter from his Congressional Government, took notes on a
                    paper on social progress by young Albion W. Small, or engaged in a general free-for-all debate on
                    the origins of the family.
            The rest of the week they spent at their separate desks searching the "sources,"
                    going out into 
                        Baltimore
                     to observe, and participate in, the work of charity organizations, and listening to
                    regular lecture courses or briefer, supplementary courses given by Thomas Huxley, James Bryce, or
                    Edward A. Freeman. Once Ely took some of his students to hear the Anarchist Johann Most make a
                    speech before a group of workmen. Everything was grist to their mill.9
            
            In the nineties a former member of the seminar wrote back to Adams from 
                        California
                    : "[When I] recall the swift rush of life in that institution, the varied
                    program of attractions, the rich possibilities of suggestion at every turn … I sometimes
                    think that I know what it is to fly with Uranus away from the sun."10
                    Charles M. Andrews of Yale, who was in the seminar in the eighties, recalled that: "It was
                    a time of exhilaration and almost religious fervor among the younger scholars, who …
                    entered on the quest with the zeal of explorers making new discoveries or of crusaders advancing to
                    new conquests."11
            
            
               
                  9 Much has been written on the work at Johns Hopkins, but see especially
                        pages 168–246 in Ray S. Baker, Woodrow Wilson, Life and Letters (8
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1927), I.
               
                  10 Charles H. Levermore to Herbert B. Adams, January 29, 1887, in W. Stull
                        Holt (ed.) "Historical Scholarship in the United States, 1876–1901: As
                        Revealed in the Correspondence of Herbert B. Adams, "Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science, LVI (1938), 486–487.
               
                  11Andrews, "These Forty Years," American
                            Historical Review, XXX, 235–234.
            
            
            Soon the fruits of this German transplant were scattered throughout the colleges of the nation. James
                    A. James came to Northwestern, John H. Finley to 
                        Knox
                    , David Kinley to 
                        Illinois
                    , Charles H. Haskins, Turner, John R. Commons, and Ely, himself, to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , John Dewey to 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , Edward W. Bemis to 
                        Chicago
                    , Henry Carter Adams to 
                        Michigan
                    ,—and to Indiana University: E. A. Ross for one year, Commons for three years
                    (at $2000 a year),12 and James A. Woodburn for a lifetime. All of
                    these had studied in the Department of History, Politics and Economics at Hopkins. Most, perhaps
                    all, had been members of the great seminar. By 1889, Turner had a seminar of his own at 
                        Wisconsin
                     on the history of the Northwest. A visitor wrote back to Professor Adams in April of
                    1891: "This afternoon I attended Prof. Turner's Seminary. It is Hopkins S.
                    [seminar] on a small scale."13 No wonder Adams kept a map of the United
                    States on his office wall with pins stuck in it marking the Hopkins "colonies"
                    where his former students were teaching.14
            
            The co-operation which was characteristic of the seminar was extended beyond the classroom. To make
                    the results of the seminar available to other students, Adams began the publication of the Johns
                    Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science in 1883. Learned
                    journals were founded: the Political Science Quarterly, the American
                        Historical Review, the Quarterly Journal of Economics. In September of
                    1884 a group of leading historians met in the broad-porched and high-ceilinged old United States
                    Hotel at Saratoga Springs, 
                        New York
                    , where they could take the waters and exchange gossip and ideas about their special
                    interests. Among them were Herbert Baxter Adams of Hopkins, Charles K. Adams of 
                        Michigan
                    , Moses Coit Tyler and Andrew White of Cornell, and Justin Winsor, Ephraim Emerton, and
                    Edward Channing of 
                        Harvard
                    . All of these and most of the others present had had some German training. They
                    organized the American Historical Association and 
                  
                     12 John R. Commons, Myself (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 49–51.
                  
                     13 James A. James to Herbert B. Adams, April 8, 1891, and Frederick J.
                            Turner to Herbert B. Adams, January 11, 1890 in Holt, "Historical Scholarship in
                            the United States," Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and
                                Political Science, LVI, 515 and 543.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 402.
               
                     elected White as first president.15 The
                    next year the American Economic Association was founded at the same place. The American Political
                    Science Association and the American Sociological Society were formed in the early 1900's.
                    Meantime the old Indiana Historical Society had been reorganized in 1886, and in December, 1898,
                    just fifty years ago, a separate history teachers' section was established inside the
                    Indiana State Teachers' Association. James A. Woodburn was an enthusiastic participant.16
            
            In educational history and in any kind of intellectual history it is most unrealistic to overlook
                    secular trends—the great flow of thought and event outside the study and the school.
            American students of the social sciences were greatly influenced by Charles R. Darwin, Herbert
                    Spencer, Isidore Comte, and Walter Bagehot,17 but one must not neglect a
                    popularizer and economic messiah like Henry George. When Commons was an undergraduate at Oberlin, he
                    called a meeting of some of his fellow students in his room, presided as temporary chairman,
                    presented a constitution for a Henry George Club, became president, and read the first paper. He
                    later grew out of this single-tax phase, but Progress and Poverty was the most
                    important factor in turning his attention to the field of economics.18
            
            This was the era of Herbert Baxter Adams, of Andrew White, of Richard Ely, but also of Jim Fiske and
                    Black Friday, of Terence B. Powderly, of violent labor struggles, of the founding of monopolies, of
                    the cancerous growth of city slums, of the "tramp evil," of Greenbackers and
                    Populists, of high tariffs, and the Cross of Gold. Here were matters that might be dealt with by the
                    emotional, intuitional and 
                  
                     15 Herbert B. Adams, "Report of the Organization and
                            Proceedings of the American Historical Association, at Saratoga, September 9–10,
                            1884," in Papers of the American Historical Association (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885–1891), I.
                  
                     16 James A. Woodburn to Herbert B. Adams, December 26, 1898, in Holt,
                            "Historical Scholarship in the United States," in Johns Hopkins University
                                Studies in Historical and Political Science, LVI, 654–656.
                  
                     17 Halt calls attention to the great influence of English writers and
                            writings.
                  
                     18 J. Laurence Lauhlin "The Study of Political Economy in the
                            United States," Journal of Political Economy (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892-), I, 1–19. Commons' minutes of the Oberlin Henry
                            George Club are in the Oberlin College Library, Oberlin, 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
                     elocutionary approach or by the more analytical and critical
                    processes of the evolving social sciences.
            There was hardly a figure of any importance among the social scientists of this period, with a few
                    notable exceptions like William Graham Sumner of Yale, who did not hope to find a fulcrum for the
                    lever of Archimedes to move the world. They did not study history for history's sake alone,
                    economics for economics' sake, political science for the sake of the science but as means
                    for the amelioration of the condition of individuals in society. In his inaugural address as first
                    president of the American Historical Association, Andrew White declared that one of the chief
                    purposes of that organization was to open "up a better political and social
                        future."19 In the prospectus sent out by Ely and H. B. Adams
                    calling together leading scholars for the organization of the American Economic Association they
                    denounced "the doctrine of laissez faire" as "unsafe in politics and
                    unsound in morals."20 Ely and Commons were always active reformers.
                    Commons, while in 
                        Bloomington
                    , participated in organizing the American Institute of Christian Sociology, a definitely
                    reformist society. Many of the early sociologists like E. A. Ross were as much political and social
                    reformers as scholars.21 In 1891, Frederick J. Turner advocated the widespread
                    study and teaching of history because of its social usefulness. When he was inaugurated as president
                    of the American Historical Association at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in December, 1910, he called upon the historian to "hold the lamp for
                    conservative reform."22
            
            To a considerable extent it was because the teachers of the social sciences did not avoid the
                    marketplace and the public forum that their courses increased so much in number, in enrollment and
                    in prestige. But these men ran a real risk, 
                  
                     19 "Report of the Organization … of the American
                            Historical Association," in Papers of the American Historical
                            Association, I, 28; and see Carl Becker, "Some Aspects of the Influence of Social
                            Problems and Ideas upon the Study and Writing of History," American
                                Journal of Sociology, (
                                Chicago
                            , 1895-), XVIII (1913), 641 and 675.
                  
                     20 Richard T. Ely, Ground Under Our Feet (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 121–164.
                  
                     21 Harry E. Barnes, An Introduction to the History of
                                Sociology (
                                Chicago
                            , c. 1948), 819–820.
                  
                     22 Frederick J. Turner, "The Significance of
                            History," and Fulmer Mood, "Turner's Formative Period,"
                            in The Early Writings of Frederick Jackson Turner (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1938); Frederick J. Turner, "Social Forces in
                            American History," American Historical Review, XVI
                            (1910–1911), 226.
               
                     as all scholars do when they forsake the impregnability of the
                    ivory tower. Henry Carter Adams lost his job at Cornell because he spoke publicly in mild but
                    friendly approval of labor unions. Commons did not increase his popularity with the authorities when
                    he founded a student co-operative at Indiana. Ross raised some pointed questions about the use of
                    coolie labor in building the Central Pacific. It turned out that that was not a tactful thing to do
                    at Leland Stanford Junior University. Ely was tried at 
                        Wisconsin
                     for teaching socialistic doctrines, but he was cleared. Even the conservative Sumner
                    was savagely attacked by Yale alumni because he was a logical free-enterpriser and favored free
                    trade.
            As the last hours of the nineteenth century ran out, the trend toward the social sciences gained
                    momentum. The widespread adoption of the elective system made possible the expansion of offerings in
                    the sciences, natural and social, without any apparent poaching on the sacred preserves of the
                    classics and mathematics in the catalogs. Back in the Centennial Year of 1876 only three colleges
                    offered more than a single elementary course in economics. In 1881 the 
                        Ohio
                     College Association recommended that every institution have at least two terms in
                    modern history and one term each in economics and government. By 1892 ten institutions in the United
                    States listed six or more different economics courses. 
                        Michigan
                     had twenty; 
                        Harvard
                    , eleven; 
                        Wisconsin
                    , nine.23
            
            The new science of sociology, growing out of the writings of Comte and 
                        Spencer
                     abroad and of Lester Ward in the United States, made rapid progress. Sociological
                    matters were often dealt with in courses in political economy along with economics. Sumner at Yale
                    offered the first full course in the field of sociology in the seventies. A Yale graduate introduced
                    sociology at Indiana in 1885. A Hopkins man brought it to the University of 
                        Kansas
                     four years later. Albion W. Small gave a course at Colby in 1890. Franklin H. Giddings
                    began his long career as a teacher of sociology at 
                        Columbia
                     in 1893.24
            
            
               
                  23 Association of 
                            Ohio
                         Colleges, Constitution, Membership, Etc. (Wooster, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1883); Laughlin "The Study of Political Economy in the United
                        States," Journal of Political Economy, I, Appendix I,
                        143–161.
               
                  24 Albion W. Small, "Fifty Years of Sociology in the United
                        States (1865–1915), American Journal of Sociology, XXI (1916),
                        724–864, especially 760–761.
            
            
            More and better opportunities for graduate work were being offered for prospective college social
                    science teachers. German-trained John W. Burgess gathered a remarkable group of distinguished
                    scholars in his School of Politics at 
                        Columbia
                    , including men like Giddings, William A. Dunning, E. R. A. Seligman, and James Harvey
                    Robinson. Robinson's "New History" was, for the historian, a kind of a
                    summary, a reaping of the harvest of a generation of American scholarly effort.25 In addition to 
                  Columbia, Michigan, Chicago,
                            Harvard
               , Cornell, and 
                        Wisconsin
                     played an increasingly important part. Hopkins declined in relative significance; its
                    greatest contributions had been made. The number of Americans who found it necessary or desirable to
                    study in foreign universities declined sharply.
            College libraries were becoming more adequate; larger and larger percentages of their acquisitions
                    were in the fields of the natural and social sciences. Here and there, new buildings were provided
                    exclusively for library use, as at Rutgers in the seventies, 
                        Michigan
                     in the eighties, and 
                        Wabash
                     and Indiana University in the nineties. These buildings contained convenient stacks,
                    reading rooms and often special seminar rooms. Full-time librarians were employed, and they
                    introduced the brilliant idea of classifying the books according to subject. (For many years 
                        Ohio
                     Wesleyan books were arranged under the names of the donors!) Melville Dewey at Amherst
                    was the leader in this work; his decimal system was soon being used in many other colleges. And the
                    books were made increasingly accessible to students. Open hours were extended; restrictions on the
                    use and withdrawal of books were reduced. This was a development of importance to all departments,
                    but absolutely essential for the social sciences.26
            
            By the first decade of the twentieth century the four chief social studies were well established and
                    the way prepared for the great development of more recent years.
            Throughout much of American history certain practical 
                  
                     25 Harry E. Barnes "James Harvey Robinson," in
                            Howard W. Odum (ed.), American Masters of Social Science (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 362–368.
                  
                     26 W. H. S. Demarest, "History of the Library," Journal of the Rutgers University Library (
                        New Brunswick, New
                            Jersey
                     , 1937-), I, 3–8; and C. B. Galbreath (comp.), Sketches of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Libraries (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1902),
                        182–185.
               
                     men-of-affairs have been suspicious and fearful of the scholar,
                    the teacher, the idea man, the man with the mortar board. Back in the nineties Professor J. Laurence
                    Laughlin noted that this was particularly true of the attitude toward those who taught economics.27 Perhaps this fear has been justified. These early social scientists and their
                    students made important contributions to the Progressive Movement and the New Deal. One of them,
                    himself became President of the United States in a period of crisis.
            Insofar as teachers and their students have dealt courageously, critically, honestly, realistically,
                    and "altruistically" with the history and analysis of the problems of man in
                    society, they have been in a very tangible way a dynamic factor in the evolving social order.28 While the success that may be achieved today will depend primarily upon the
                    present generation of teachers of history and the social sciences, no great measure of achievement
                    would even be possible had not the foundations been so "well and truly laid" in
                    the late nineteenth century.
            
               
                  27 Laughlin, "The Study of Political Economy in the United
                        States," Journal of Political Economy, I, 5.
               
                  28 In 1913, Carl Becker recognized "the imperative command that
                        knowledge serve purpose, and learning be applied to the solution of the ‘problem of
                        human life.’" "Some Aspects of the Influence of Social Problems and
                        Ideas upon the Study and Writing of History," American Journal of
                            Sociology, XVIII, 553–664. Most valuable background is found in the writings
                        of Luther L. and Jessie Bernard: "A Century of Progress in the Social
                        Sciences," Social Forces (
                     Chapel
                                Hill, North Carolina
                  ,
                        1922-), XI (1932–1932) 488–505; Origins of American
                        Sociology (
                            New York
                        , c. 1943), and e Social Sciences as Disciplines: United States," Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences (15 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1930–1935), I, 324–349. This paper was, of course, written
                        without benefit of volume three of Joseph Dorfman's invaluable Economic
                            Mind in, American Civilization (
                            New York
                        , 1949).
            
         
         
         
            The Death of a Legend
            Florence G. Watts*
            
            A romantic story has long been associated with a granite boulder located for many years in a yard on
                    Sixth Street in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. According to the usually accepted version of the story, it was brought to
                    town from a woods near the present St. Vincent School, formerly called the Highlands Orphanage. In
                    its woodland setting it had reputedly served as a trysting-place for Jefferson Davis and Sarah Knox
                    Taylor, daughter of Zachary, during their courtship. At the same time Jeremiah Donovan, a prominent
                    citizen of the county, was courting Christopher Wyant's daughter Susan. The two couples,
                    according to the story, often met at the boulder and exchanged greetings and in sentimental memory
                    of these meetings Donovan later brought the stone to 
                        Vincennes
                     and placed it in his yard.
            It is undisputed historical truth that Zachary Taylor was stationed at Fort Knox, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and that his daughter Sarah Knox was born during the brief time that he had his family
                    with him at that post.1 The earliest printed references to his period of
                    residence in 
                        Vincennes
                    , however, make no mention of a Jefferson Davis-Sarah Knox Taylor courtship. A
                    historical atlas of Indiana, published in 1876, gave the following information:
            "The mansion of Governor Harrison still remains, also that of Judge Parke, now owned by Mr.
                    Wise. This house was once occupied by Captain Zachary Taylor; and his daughter, who afterwards
                    became the wife of Jefferson Davis, was born in it."2
            
            An atlas of knox County, published in 1880, did not mention Taylor in any way,3
                    but a county history, published in 1886, included in a description of 
                        Vincennes
                     as it appeared in 1805 this account of Taylor's residence:
            
               
                  * Mrs. Florence G. Watts is a resident of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, and a member of the Historic Buildings, Sites, and Markers Committee of
                        the Indiana Historical Society.
               
                  1Holman Hamilton, Zachary Taylor, Soldier of the
                        Republic (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1941), 57.
               
                  2
                        Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State of Indiana (Baskin and Foster, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1876), 250.
               
                  3
                        An Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana (D. J. Lake and Co., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1880).
            
            
            "Coming down 
                        St. Louis
                     Street, upon the right hand stood the residence of Judge Benjamin Parke, a frame
                    cottage standing near the center of the grounds of John Wise. In this Capt. Zachary Taylor lived for
                    a time, and here a daughter was born, who afterward became the wife of Jefferson Davis, President of
                    the Southern Confederacy. Few towns can boast of having been the home of two presidents and the
                    birth-place of the wife of a third."4
            
            In the early years of the present century three histories of the town and a historical atlas of the
                    county were published, all written by residents. Each work made mention of Taylor. Henry S.
                    Cauthorn, whose history appeared in 1902, expressly denied the truth of the courtship story but
                    recorded the birth of Jessie [sic] Taylor.5 Hubbard Madison
                    Smith in his work published the same year gave the "legend," as he called it, some
                    prominence. He admitted that it might be fiction and cited reasons pro and con, but concluded with
                    these words:
            "Now let me ask you what object Mr. Donovan had in going to the trouble and expense of
                    removing an unprepossessing-looking, unshapely boulder to his front yard if some romance or pleasing
                    reminiscence was not connected with it?"6
            
            The third historian, J. P. Hodge, whose work was also published in 1902, mentioned only
                    Taylor's military service in the Territory.7 F. C. Hardacre, compiler
                    of the historical atlas, recorded Taylor's brief residence in 
                        Vincennes
                     and his daughter's marriage to Davis. He added:
            "While an officer in the United States Army, Jefferson Davis was stationed at old Fort Knox
                    for a season. Here he met and courted Miss Taylor, daughter of General Taylor, who became his first
                        wife."8
            
            In 1911 another history, the most impressive as to length and format, was published. The author,
                    George E. Greene, told the story at some length and with no reservations, giving 
                  
                     4
                     History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties, Indiana (The Goodspeed Publishing Company, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 241.
                  
                     5 Henry S. Cauthorn, A History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , Indiana from 1702 to 1901 (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, 1902), 26, 185–186.
                  
                     6 Hubbard M. Smith, Historical Sketches of Old 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1902), 280–282.
                  
                     7 J. P. Hodge, 
                        
                                    Vincennes
                                 in Picture and Story (n.p., 1902), 69, 83.
                  
                     8 F. C. Hardacre (comp.), Historical Atlas of 
                                    Knox County
                                , Indiana (
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, 1903), 39.
               
                     Donovan himself as the source.9 As Donovan
                    died in 1886 at a very advanced age and was, according to his published obituary notices, reticent,
                    it seems doubtful that 
                        Greene
                     heard him relate the tale.10
            
            Variations, many contradictory, were added by word of mouth; a few that make a reasonable sequence,
                    follow. The Wyants and Taylors were said to have been near neighbors in 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the two mothers mutually helpful in caring for the infants Sarah and Susan. At
                    this time the Wyants were reputedly living on Lot 9, Old Town, and the Taylors were placed in the
                    next block, in the Parke-Wise residence. Years later, 
                        Knox
                     or Knoxy as she was called, supposedly came to visit the Wyants and it was then that
                    the courtship took place. Davis's presence was accounted for by crediting him with an
                    assignment to guard stages between 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , the route of course passing through 
                        Vincennes
                    . Each suitor was supposed to own a pair of fine riding horses and it was on these that
                    the two couples rode out to the boulder.11 The boulder itself was believed to be
                    a meteorite.
            
               
                  9 George E. Greene, History of Old 
                                Vincennes
                             and 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1911), I, 319.
               
                  10
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Daily Sun, January 23, 1886. "At 3
                        o'clock this morning, 23rd, Mr. Jeremiah Donovan passed quietly from this life at the
                        residence of his son Ralph, near the Highlands, three miles east of the city. … Mr.
                        Donovan leaves two immediate descendants, a son Ralph … and one daughter, Mrs.
                        Hedekin, residing at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . … We have no data at hand showing the place or time of birth of the
                        subject of this sketch as he was always very reticent on the question, especially as to his age.
                        It is known, however that he had long passed the age of ninety and was probably nearing the
                        century mark and was beyond question the oldest man in the county. He came to this place early
                        in the present century and engaged in his trade (tanner) with John Cleves Symmes Harrison, son
                        of President Harrison. He was a great friend of the latter and knew him personally and
                        intimately. Mr. Donovan was city marshal of 
                            Vincennes
                         for thirty years beginning way back under the old Borough regime. … His
                        wife's father, Christopher Wyant, was the first sheriff of the county in 1785 and was a
                        personal friend of Winthrop Sargent." Ibid., January 27, 1886.
                        "It is a matter of regret that the deceased left no record of his life which must have
                        been an interesting and eventful one." By way of showing the unreliability of early
                        tradition, one item in the above may be corrected. 
                            Knox County
                         was set up June 20, 1790. John Small was appointed the first sheriff, June 22.
                        Christopher Wyant was appointed Gentleman Coroner, July 3. He was appointed sheriff October 10,
                        1793, vice John Small resigned, and Wyant served until February 18, 1800. Clarence E. Carter
                        (comp. and ed.), The Territorial Papers of the United States (Washington,
                        1934-), III, The Territory Northwest of the River Ohio,
                            1781–1803, pp. 313, 316, 414–415, 523. Donovan was, however, a
                        tanner in his earlier days. 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, July 3, 1824.
               
                  11 Much of this tradition was supplied by Mrs. Emily Adams Emison, a
                        resident of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Spread thus by the printed word as well as by hearsay, the story became firmly fixed in the annals of
                    the town and the boulder was marked as one of 
                        Vincennes
                    ' historic spots.
            In 1933 the writer was conducting the late Louise Phelps Kellogg, eminent historian, on a tour of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Upon reading the marker at the boulder, Miss Kellogg said that this story of Jefferson
                    Davis and Sarah Knox Taylor was not true and that the courtship took place at Fort Crawford, Prairie
                    du Chien, 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Just at this time a new edition of the Historic 
                            Vincennes
                         Tourist's Guide issued by the Fortnightly Club was in preparation and
                    the question naturally arose as to whether the story of the boulder should again be given a place in
                    the booklet.
            Checking of dates and correspondence with authorities on Taylor, including descendants, showed that
                    many parts of the local legend were erroneous. Known facts were briefly as follows: Taylor was
                    stationed at Fort Knox, 
                        Vincennes
                    , during parts of each year from 1811 to and including 1814, the total period of his
                    residence being about twenty months. He was in and out of Fort Knox, fighting Indians, visiting his
                    family in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and temporarily assuming command of the forces in 
                        Missouri
                     Territory. He was at Fort Knox, however, longer than at any other place during the War
                    of 1812, and therefore it may be assumed that 
                        Vincennes
                     was his headquarters during a major part of that war.12
            
            When Taylor first came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , Fort Knox was on a bluff up the Wabash River about three miles.
                    It had been moved from the town in 1803.13 Early in 1813 it was again
                    established in the village14 in a location at present unknown, but probably not
                    the spot occupied by the Fort Knox of 1787, the foot of Buntin Street, as houses had been built
                        thereon.15
            
            
               
                  12 Holman Hamilton, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, to Florence G. Watts, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, April 24, 1935.
               
                  13 The Secretary of War to Cornelius Lyman, August 4, 1803, in The Territorial Papers of the United States, VII, The Territory
                            of Indiana (1939), 117. Cornelius Lyman, Captain, October 1, 1804, Warrant No. 7842.
                        For drawing the deeds of a tract of land whereon the fort, near 
                            Vincennes
                        , is erected, $25. American State Papers: Military
                        Affairs (7 vols., Washington, 1832–1861), I, 180.
               
                  14 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry
                            Harrison (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1922), II, 309, 378, 381–382, 406–407. These
                        volumes are VII and IX of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916-).
               
                  15
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, The Western Sun, January 4, 1817. "Public
                        Sale. Will be sold to the highest bidder, on Saturday, the 11th inst. at the house of Mark
                        Barnett, a number of HOUSES on the lot on which Fort Knox formerly stood."
            
            
            Perhaps the return of the fort to town may have influenced Taylor to bring his family to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; living conditions there would have been easier and more pleasant than at the garrison
                    some miles away. The Taylors were in 
                        Vincennes
                     during the winter of 1813–1814. There their second daughter was born March
                    6, 1814. Her middle name was in honor of the fort.
            Major Taylor left the army in 1815 and retired to his farm in 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1816 he rejoined the army and was sent to Green Bay, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , where he became commandant of Fort Howard. He subsequently served in the south, at
                    Fort Snelling in present 
                        Minnesota
                    , and at Fort Crawford, where he was in command in 1829. He was at that post at various
                    times until 1836.16
            
            As Fort Knox was abandoned in 1816,17 it is obvious that he had no tour of duty
                    there after that year; nor could Jefferson Davis have been stationed at 
                        Vincennes
                    , as the most cursory examination of his early history shows. Born in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1808 and reared in 
                        Mississippi
                    , he was graduated from West Point in 1828. His military assignments included Jefferson
                    Barracks, Fort Crawford in 1829, (when Sarah Knox Taylor was only fifteen) Fort Winnebago and again
                    Fort Crawford. He was in and out of that post until he was assigned to the First Regiment of
                    Dragoons in 1833. He spent the next two years at Fort Gibson. From there his courtship of 
                        Knox
                    , begun during his second assignment to Fort Crawford, was continued by letter.
            In 1835 Lieutenant Davis resigned from the army.18 Knox Taylor, then twenty-one
                    years old, went to 
                        Louisville
                     where she and Davis were married at the home of her aunt 
                  
                     16
                            
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor, Chronology, xv, xvi.
                  
                     17 An approximate date for the abandonment may be deduced from notices
                            appearing in the 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun in 1816. From January 6 through March
                            30 most of the issues carried notices requesting that persons holding arms belonging to the
                            government return them to the commanding officer at 
                                Vincennes
                            . These were signed by John T. Chunn. Brevet Major commanding at Fort Knox. From
                            April 30 through June 8 the notices directed that arms be delivered to William Johns in 
                                Vincennes
                            . Major Chunn also signed these later notices but did not mention his post. He
                            was, however, at Fort Harrison for the Fourth of July celebration (issue of August 3).
                  
                     18 For facts concerning the early life of Jefferson Davis, Jefferson Davis, a Memoir by his Wife (
                                New York
                            , 1890), and Milo M. Quaife, "The Northwestern Career of Jefferson
                            Davis," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            1908-), XVI (1923), 1–19, were consulted.
               
                     on June 17. This aunt was Elizabeth, Taylor's eldest
                    sister, who had married her second cousin, John Gibson Taylor. Hancock Taylor, Zachary's
                    brother, gave the bride away. Present at the wedding were Dr. and Mrs. Wood, Knox's sister
                    and brother-in-law, as well as others of the Taylor kindred.19 Although the
                    bride's father seemed not entirely resigned to the marriage, he wrote her affectionately
                    and supplied her with money.20
            
            Jefferson Davis and his bride went to 
                        Mississippi
                    , where, less than three months after the marriage, she died of malaria. Davis himself
                    was very ill with the same disease. He was long in recovering from it and even longer in recovering
                    from his grief, for he remained more or less a recluse from society for eight years and did not
                    marry Varina Howell until 1845.
            There seemed to be one faint possibility that Davis and Knox might have seen each other in 
                        Vincennes
                    . He was sent to 
                        Louisville
                     shortly after March 2, 1833, on recruiting duty for the Dragoons.21
                    He might have gone overland between 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     and thus have passed through 
                        Vincennes
                    . But it is unlikely that the Taylors would have permitted their daughter to come to 
                        Vincennes
                     without them, and they were definitely at Fort Crawford at the time.22 No record of such a visit has appeared in 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The Davis-Taylor wedding could hardly be called an elopement, yet tales sprang up of flights from
                    Fort Gibson, from Fort Crawford in several directions and by several methods, including another
                    four-horse affair in which they were reputedly joined by Lieutenant George Wilson and Mary Street. 
                        St. Louis
                     was named as the place of the wedding ceremony, 
                  
                     19 Letter from Alex B. Randall, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , February 24, 1934, to Florence G. Watts enclosing an article from the
                                    
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     , Sun, October 25, 1906,
                            reprinted from the 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 20, 1906. This article gives an account of the marriage by
                            Mrs. Philip Pendleton Dandridge, Knox's younger sister, Betty. Mr. Randall was a
                            son of Mary Virginia Taylor (Mrs. Burton Randall), daughter of Mrs. John Gibson Taylor. For
                            an account of the discovery of the marriage bond of Jefferson Davis and Sarah Knox Taylor in
                            the 
                        Jefferson County, Kentucky
                     , Courthouse see 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 12, 1933, and Filson Club History
                            Quarterly (
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , 1926-), VIII (1934), 229. See
                            also Walter C. Fleming, "Jefferson Davis' First Marriage," in Publications of the 
                                Mississippi
                             Historical Society (14 vols., 
                        Oxford, Mississippi
                     ,
                            1894–1914), XII (1912), 21–36.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor, 106.
                  
                     21 Quaife, "The Northwestern Career of Jefferson
                            Davis," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XVI, 15.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor, 106.
               
                     and there was a tale of a 
                        Kentucky
                     courtship, this time by a spring and not on a boulder.23 Every
                    place with which Davis had any connection from his graduation to his marriage, and even
                    Taylor's very early 
                        Vincennes
                     residence, served as the locale of a romantic story.
            In view of the above information, it was decided to remove the boulder story from the Tourist's Guide, merely mentioning the fact that Sarah Knox Taylor was born in
                    the Old Post.
            A fresh impetus to further investigation came with the news that a letter from Jefferson Davis on the
                    subject of the boulder had been found in 
                        Vincennes
                    . It was in the possession of Mrs. Harry Beggs, a niece of historian George Greene, and
                    was obtained from her. Davis had addressed his letter to a Mrs. Emma E. Peck, and the question at
                    once arose as to who she was and why she was interested in the boulder. Correspondence with
                    repositories of Davis material brought to light a letter from her to Davis. It is in the collections
                    of the Confederate Literary Society, housed in the Confederate Museum, 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               . A typed copy of Mrs. Peck's letter was supplied. The
                    letters follow.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 25th, 1886
                                
                        Hon. Jefferson Davis
                        In the midst of the excitement and diversity of sentiment and opinion interesting the
                                    world today, in regard to yourself, I beg you will not consider my letter an
                                    intrusion or the subject of it, unworthy your notice. My family have in their
                                    possession a stone, the legend of which, is, that it came from Col. Z.
                                    Taylor's farm near 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , and, that you, had often occupied this stone, as a
                                    seat, while on visits to his farm, particularly in conversation with Miss Taylor, be
                                    this as it may, the older members of our family, valued and cared for this stone,
                                    the younger portion, cared for, and valued it, at a time when the fact of its
                                    history would have caused the cry of ‘treason’ and I am
                                    positive the destruction of the stone, being connected with your honored name.
                        The stone is now on the ground where it has lain for forty years, a conspicuous
                                    object, and the story believed connected 
                              
                                 23
                                            
                                    Kansas City, Missouri
                                 , Star, reprinted in the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, News, March 15, 1919.
                           
                                     with it. I have thought often of writing you in
                                    regard to this matter, hoping you might remember something of it and thus place our
                                    ‘legend’ on an historical base, built upon your signature as
                                    the foundation or cornerstone, thus adding another relic to the old city of 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , the home of General Harrison and a host of noted pioneers.
                        
                                    Respectfully
                                    Mrs. Emma E. Peck
                                
                         Box 715, 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana" Endorsement on envelope: "Mrs. Emma E.
                                    Peck about a stone and Z. Taylor—Ansd. 30 May ‘86"
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "Beauvoir Missi
                           
                                    May 30th 1886,
                                
                        Mrs. Emma E. Peck,
                        Dear Madam,
                        I cannot give you any information in regard to the stone concerning which you
                                    inquire. I know, as a tradition that Ex President Z. Taylor—was stationed
                                    at Fort Knox at or near 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , but my acquaintance with him commenced many years thereafter.
                        
                                    Very respectfully yours
                                    Jefferson Davis"24
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The Peck and Davis letters would seem to settle once and for all the question of Jefferson Davis,
                    Sarah Knox Taylor and the boulder. They did not "occupy it as a seat," as Mrs.
                    Peck delicately puts it. She herself may have lost interest in the matter as on the reverse side of
                    the letter is written a recipe for "cucumber ragout." Is it to the recipe or to
                    the fame of Jefferson Davis that the preservation of the letter is due?
            Mrs. Peck's letter raises several questions, first of all as to her identity. She claimed
                    kinship with the Donovan 
                  
                     24 A photostat of the Davis letter was sent to Miss India Thomas,
                            House Regent of the Confederate Museum, who had supplied the typed copy of Mrs.
                            Peck's letter. She wrote in reply: "Not any of the letter you have seems
                            to have been written by Mr. Davis. In his latter years he seemed to have depended on Mrs.
                            Davis and Miss Winnie Davis or Mrs. Dorsey to do his writing. Mrs. Davis, as she grew older,
                            wrote more and more like her husband, and some of her handwriting looks almost identically
                            like his. … I do not think you need have any doubt about your letter being from
                            Mr. Davis since we, have the original one of which yours is the answer, and the handwriting
                            is the same as some of the other letters from Mr. Davis in his last years."
               
                     family in her letter, but she was not the child of Jeremiah and
                    Susan Wyant Donovan, nor the sister of either. They were married October 19, 1823.25 Mrs. Peck died in 
                        St. Louis
                     April 1, 1902, at the age of eighty-three years.26 This places her
                    birth date in the year 1819, some years previous to their marriage. Her name does not appear in the
                    recorded baptisms of their children.27 An Emma E. Newel [sic]
                    was married to Horace E. Peck, February 29, 1842.28 He died June 4, 1864. Mrs.
                    Peck, as evidenced by her letter, was living in 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1886, and she was listed in the city directory of 1888–1889. The only
                    other Newell appearing in any available records is William, a witness to the probating of Horace
                    Peck's will.29 Mrs. Peck's obituary notices make no mention of
                    her parentage but both refer to her husband Horace, a former druggist. No printed obituary is
                    available for him. Mrs. Peck's one surviving neighbor, Miss Ellen Piel, could shed no light
                    on her ancestry, recalling that she lived very quietly with her son and four grandsons. There must
                    have been some fairly close connection with the Donovans as Mrs. Peck was one of the witnesses to
                    the codicil to Susan Donovan's will,30 but what that connection was
                    remains an unsolved problem.
            Comparison of the marriage dates of Jeremiah Donovan and Susan Wyant and of Jefferson Davis and Sarah
                    Knox Taylor refutes beyond all doubt the story of a simultaneous courtship of the two couples. Nor
                    were Susan and Sarah 
                  
                     25 Photostatic copy of 
                                Knox County
                             Marriage Records, Book 2. The original has disappeared.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Capital, April 3, 1902, and 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, The Daily Sun, April 3, 1902.
                  
                     27 The baptisms of the following children of Jerry Meyer [sic] Donovan and Susan Wiant [sic] his wife, are in the records
                            of St. Francis Xavier Parish, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, VI, 650–651: 
                        
                           Lawrence
                           born
                           Oct. 8, 1827
                           baptized
                           July 2, 1837
                        
                        
                           Catherine Eleanor
                           "
                           July 27, 1824
                           "
                           Sept. 10, 1837
                        
                        
                           Marv Catherine
                           "
                           Jan. 1, 1826
                           " "
                           " "
                        
                        
                           James Bary
                           "
                           Dec. 6, 1829
                           " "
                           " "
                        
                        
                           Ralph Hugh
                           "
                           Nov. 6, 1831
                           " "
                           " "
                        
                        
                           Susan Mary
                           no birth date
                           "
                           Jan. 28, 1838
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     28
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Marriage Records, Book 4, p. 139.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Wills, B, 149. Tradition has it that the Pecks built the house, later
                            occupied by the Bayard family, on the east corner of Sixth and Seminary Streets. This seems
                            to be true, as Horace Peck willed to his wife, along with other real estate, lot 269, on
                            which the house in question stands.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Wills, B, 415.
               
                     contemporaneous infants unless Susan was married at the age of
                    nine.
            Mrs. Peck's letter draws attention to another question: the place of residence of the
                    Taylors in 
                        Vincennes
                    . She gave the Taylor farm near 
                        Vincennes
                     as the domicile of the family and the reputed location of the courtship. Search of
                    early records has failed to produce a reference to Taylor as a landowner in 
                        Knox County
                    .31 It cannot categorically be said that he never owned land in the
                    county, but at the time he was in and out of 
                        Vincennes
                     he had a farm in 
                        Kentucky
                     to which he returned from time to time. If his name had appeared in the chain of title
                    to any property, it would undoubtedly have caught the attention of those doing research, and the
                    fact of his ownership would have thus come to light. "Zachary" is an unusual name
                    and in connection with "Taylor" would scarcely have escaped notice.
            All printed references, as well as tradition, (with the exception of the "legend"
                    current in Mrs. Peck's family) have given property owned by Judge Benjamin Parke as the
                    residence of the Taylor family while in 
                        Vincennes
                    . As examination of the real estate ownership of the Judge sheds light upon the
                    question.
            The so-called "Parke-Wise" mansion, often designated as the Taylor residence, was
                    on land that was until 1816 a part of Harrison's estate of Grouseland and outside the
                    limits of the borough. Parke acquired title to this property by deed from Harrison March 9, 1816.32 The latter was then in 
                        Vincennes
                    .33 At this time Harrison's Addition was platted and his
                    estate thereby made smaller.34 Parke's newly acquired property was
                    listed as Parke Place, Parke Lot, or Parke Reserve, and the deed was recorded July 9, 1816. This is
                    not 
                  
                     31 Mr. Allan Hogue, Mrs. W. H. DeBolt, and Miss Alice Ostendorf,
                            formerly of the 
                                Knox County
                             Abstract Company, were consulted. The deed index lists a transfer to a Margaret
                            M. Taylor, but references to the deed itself showed the name to be Mary Magdalen Taylor, not
                            Margaret Mackall (Smith) Taylor, Zachary's wife. The date was December 22, 1814,
                            and the property a lot in town, not a farm.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deeds, Book A, 93.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, March 2, 1816. A dinner in honor of
                            Harrison is recorded.
                  
                     34 Robert Buntin, Surveyor, A Plan of the Borough of 
                                Vincennes
                             in the Indiana Territory as Established by an Ordinance of the Trustees of Said
                            Borough on the 18th November, 1816. The original is in the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     indicated as a re-recording, as is the case with many deed
                        records.35
            
            The deed is for "That certain lot and parcel of land whereon Benjamin Parke hath erected a
                    house and made other improvements situated and lying and being in the county of 
                        Knox
                     in the said Territory and adjoining the village of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Beginning at the termination of 
                        St. Louis
                     St. thence north 55 degrees east 135 ft. 3 in. thence north 33 degrees w. to the
                        River Wabash, thence down said river 135 ft/3 in. to a street at a place
                    called the stone landing thence with and along said street to the place of beginning the said lot
                    and parcel of land estimated to contain one acre and 7/10th of an acre, be the same more or
                    less." This deed was acknowledged by Harrison before William Polke.
            In 1902, the Parke-Wise property was purchased for a lumber yard and the Daily Sun
                    carried an article on the history of the property.36 The house was described as
                    a landmark older by one year than the State of Indiana, as Judge Parke bought the land from Harrison
                    in 1815. The writer based his article on the deed record given above but did not indicate why he
                    placed the purchase in the year 1815 instead of 1816, the year of the deed. No mention was made of
                    occupancy by Taylor and his family.
            At first glance it seems strange that Parke should have built his house before obtaining title to the
                    land. On March 18, 1815, however, he was given Power of Attorney by Harrison to buy and sell
                        land.37 He and Harrison were the best of friends and they probably arranged
                    the purchase by letter, agreeing that the deed be executed upon Harrison's next coming to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The house was presumably not ready for occupancy even after the land was made over to
                    Parke, as in July of 1816 he was living in the Harrison Mansion itself.38
            
            The history of this Parke property effectively disposes of it as a place of residence for the
                    Taylors. It did not exist in 1814.
            
               
                  35 The original records were destroyed when the house and store of the
                        Recorder, John D. Hay, burned on January 21, 1814. 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, January 29, 1814.
               
                  36
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, The Daily Sun, January 3, 1903.
               
                  37
                        
                            Knox County
                        , Indiana, Deeds, Book B, 2.
               
                  38 Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early
                        Travelers, in Indiana Historical Collections, III (1916), 86.
            
            
            But Parke, previous to that year, had a residence in that neighborhood. In 1812, one Joshua Bond
                    announced the opening of a house of public entertainment in the town of 
                        Vincennes
                     at the upper end of Water Street, near the Hon. Benjamin Parke's39 Buntin's plat of 
                        Vincennes
                    , dated 1816, places what looks like the name "Parke" (it is slightly
                    blotted) on Lot 9 on the west corner of First and Stout Streets. "
                        St. Louis
                    " and "Water" were both early names of the present First
                    Street, parallel to the river. Stout Street, then at the village limit, was the present Hart Street,
                    at right angles to First.40
            
            It is possible that the Parkes were living in the Harrison Mansion in 1814, thus leaving the Parke
                    "Cottage" on Lot 9 available for the Taylors.41 It is
                    reasonable to suppose that the Parkes required at that time an imposing residence. He was a federal
                    judge and was engaged in various business enterprises as well. In 181742 he was
                    one of the organizers of the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                    , the failure of which in 1821 plunged him into the debt he so honorably discharged.43 He transferred title to his "Mansion" to Hiram Decker, et al., March 22, 1822, probably as a step toward meeting his obligations.44
                    
                  
                     39
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, September 1, 1812.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Vincennes
                             streets do not follow the cardinal points of the compass but lie about half way
                            between, so the street corners themselves may be designated as north, south, east, or west.
                  
                     41 The statement made by Cauthorn, A History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , 27 and repeated by Greene, History of Old 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , I, 287, that General Harrison, on leaving 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1811, installed his son John Cleves Symmes Harrison in the Harrison Mansion
                            is obviously untrue as Cleves was only thirteen years old at the time. He came to 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1819 as Receiver of Public Money for the United States. Josiah Meigs to J.
                            C. S. Harrison, Receiver, 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 2, 1819, General Land Office Papers, National Archives. His actual
                            appointment was dated Monday, January 3, 1820, and was confirmed by the Senate the following
                            Monday. The Journal of the Executive Proceedings of the Senate of the United
                                States from the Commencement of the First to the Termination of the Nineteenth
                            Congress (3 vols., Washington, 1828), III, 186, 188, 357, 362, 585. He was removed from
                            office by President Andrew Jackson in 1828. William Henry Harrison deeded Grouseland to
                            Cleves on June 22, 1821, two years before Cleves' marriage to Clarissa Pike.
                  
                     42 Parke resigned his position as judge in this year, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, February 2, 1817, perhaps because of
                            his connection with the bank.
                  
                     43 William Wesley Woollen. Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1883), 388.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deeds, Book C, 100.
               
                     The house did not come into possession of John Wise until May
                    30, 1833.45
            
            Whether the Wyants, parents of Susan, lived in town near enough to the Taylors to have formed the
                    friendship implied in one version of the legend is not capable of proof, and the slight evidence
                    available would seem to point to the contrary. The only city property the Wyants are on record as
                    owning was at a distance of several squares from Lot 9.46 The record of Lot 9
                    does not go back far enough to yield any information and the Buntin plat points to Parke as owner.
            In the History of 
                            Knox
                         and 
                            Daviess
                         Counties occur these statements: "Jeremiah Donovan resides on the
                    donation drawn by Antoine Drouet, called Richardville. On this lived Christopher Wyant, an early
                    sheriff of the county."47 There is an 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deeds, Book 21, 98. The Wise family previously resided on Main
                            Street, near Second. Information from an address by John Lagow, Esq., at the Old
                            Settlers' Reunion at 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 30, 1878. This was printed in the 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Times, of about that date, only the one undated
                            sheet containing the address being available. Indiana Division, Indiana State Library. The
                            question as to the identity of the house was renewed in 1941 when the Old Post Association
                            of 
                                Vincennes
                             acquired the property bounded by Parke, Hickam, First, and Scott streets. It
                            was rumored that two small houses at the corner of First and Scott streets were part of the
                            Parke-Wise house and should be preserved as part of the Taylor residence in 1814. These
                            houses were identified as parts of the Slinkard home, formerly opposite the Harrison Mansion
                            on Parke Street, and as such having no historic importance. They were, therefore, sold for
                            salvage when the property was cleared for park purposes.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Knox
                             Count Indiana, Deeds, Book A, 99–100. Antoine Gamelin and his wife
                            Magdalene granted to Wyant, February 28, 1791, "All a certain Lott of ground
                            formerly belonging to the Church and Parish of the town aforesaid fronting on St. Honore
                            Street and running back to the river beach, E. by a lott belonging to the United States on
                            one side and on the west to a street leading to the river together with improvements.
                            …" According to the Baird plat of 
                                Vincennes
                            , dated June 10, 1792, St. Honore Street (vacated before 1816) was between 
                                St. Louis
                             and St. John (present First and Second) streets. The streets off the lower side
                            of Chapel (now Church) Street are not named, but if the one nearest the river was the
                            continuation of St. Honore, the lot was probably along the Fort Sackville site. If it had
                            been on the upper side of Chapel, the lot could not have run to the "river
                            beach" without jumping over 
                                St. Louis
                             Street. The plat does not extend beyond Calvary (now Busseron) Street. The deed
                            was recorded in 1815, so the Wyants probably still owned the property. The Baird plat is
                            found in two versions: the original, "Plat of the Village of 
                                Vincennes
                             on the Ouabache in the County of 
                                Knox
                             Territory North West of 
                                Ohio
                             June 10th, 1792. Sam Baird," and "Plat of the Town of 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1792 as correctly taken from the general plat and private surveys of Samuel
                            Baird, government surveyor [manuscript torn] in the sprin of 1792, and now being in the 
                                Vincennes
                             District Land Office. Charles B. Lasselle, 
                                Vincennes
                            , April 11th 1853." The originals of both versions are in the Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     47
                     History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties, 70.
               
                     error in that quotation, as this was not the donation drawn by
                        Richardville.48 It was, however, the Wyant "home
                        tract."49 In 1886 it belonged to Donovan's daughter, Mrs.
                    Helen Hekekin,50 baptized as Catherine Eleanor Donovan and married as Ellen C.
                    Donovan to Michael Hedekin.51 She obtained this property by deeds from several
                    persons, some of them obviously Wyant heirs.62 Since this was Christopher
                    Wyant's home, the possibility of a Wyant-Taylor neighborhood friendship is further refuted.
            A footnote of acknowledgements to Chapter I of the above-mentioned history gives credit to Ralph H.
                    Donovan and Mrs. Helen Hediker [sic] of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , among others, for furnishing access to valuable records and documents used in the
                    preparation of the work. As previously indicated, this history makes no mention of the courtship
                    story. Why Mrs. Peck did not consult Susan Donovan, who died in 1872, or Jeremiah before his death
                    in 1886, is indeed a puzzle. Ralph Donovan and Ellen Donovan Hedekin, presumably the
                    "younger" members of the family she claimed as hers, should have been able to
                    enlighten her. They all lived in 
                        Vincennes
                     for years and there could have been no lack of opportunity 
                  
                     48 Richardville's donation was No. 156, on the West Fork of
                                White River, in Steen Township. American State Papers:
                                Public Lands (8 vols., Washington, 1832–1861), I, 291. Wyant owned this
                            donation, as there is a plat of it in the papers covering the settlement of his estate, and
                            it was divided among his heirs. Files of 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Courthouse. He did not live on it.
                  
                     49 The Wyant estate was partitioned in 1821, and the partition
                            recorded in 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Order Book C, page 67. A large tract of land was divided in seven
                            parcels, six going to four sons and two daughters of Wyant, and the "Home
                            tract" to his widow. It is not possible to determine too easily from the plat of
                            this area just where it is, but in the abstract of the 
                                Knox County
                             Poor Asylum property, this plat has been reproduced and Survey 35, the Hedekin
                            property, shown to be the "Home tract" artitioned to the widow of
                            Christopher. Entries in the abstract show that Christopher Wyant is on record as owning
                            several tracts, two as assignee of French grants, and one as a donation for his militia
                            service. Survey 35 is recorded in American State Papers as his in right of
                            Sean Bte. Beino, and this was confirmed by a land grant from William Henry Harrison, dated
                            August 29, 1813, and recorded September 29, 1835, 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deed Record, 62 page 226. Abstract furnished by courtesy of L. Fay
                            Hedden.
                  
                     50
                            An Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                    Knox County
                                , Indiana, 29. Plat of 
                                Vincennes
                             Township.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Marriage Records, F, 356.
                  
                     52 William Jones to Helen C. Donovan, November 28, 1863; John
                            McCormick, et al., to Helen C. Donovan, December 29, 1862; W. H. Wyant to
                            Helen C. Donovan, February 20, 1863; Louis Wyant to Helen C. Hedekin, April 28, 1866. 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deed Book, E-2, p. 267, 260, 492.
               
                     for questions. Perhaps Mrs. Peck hoped for definite information
                    from the reticent Jeremiah, and with the ending of that hope, decided to consult the one living
                    principal of the legend.
            The boulder itself is something of a rarity in 
                        Knox County
                    . One other, of comparable size, which was found deep in a gravel pit about forty years
                    ago, has been moved three times as its owner has changed his residence.53
                    Several persons have offered to buy it, testimony to its status as a "curiosity."
                    The owner estimates its weight at six or seven hundred pounds. When it was found, gravel was
                    shoveled out by hand. With present methods of obtaining gravel, boulders, if present, would sink
                    unseen to the bottom of the water in the pits. The writer, in many journeyings about the county, has
                    never seen stray boulders such as sometimes occur in considerable numbers farther north in the
                    state. The Donovan boulder may be one of the so-called "erratics," such as are
                    sometimes found as far south as 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is impossible to determine its place of origin in the county, and the legend in its
                    several versions varies, giving Taylor's non-existent farm, the woods in the neighborhood
                    of the Highlands, or merely an inviting woods.
            A specimen chipped from the boulder was sent to the Department of Geology of Indiana University for
                    expert identification. The reply gave the expected verdict: a granite boulder of glacial origin.54 The stone has weathered slightly on the top, but, barring accidents, is due
                    for a long life in its present location. Souvenir hunters have left it intact; after all, the
                    average tourist does not carry a geological hammer in his hand.
            The lot where the boulder now rests was not the property of Donovan but of his wife. She acquired it
                    by deed in 185155 and bequeathed it to her daughter Ellen with the proviso that
                    her husband Jeremiah use and occupy said lot during his natural life.56
            
            The history of the Davis letter cannot be traced very far. It was found in an old book belonging to
                    the family of 
                  
                     53 The owner is Maurice O'Donnell, whose family has been in
                            the gravel business for many years.
                  
                     54 Identification by Dr. Carlton J. Leith, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     55 John W. Maddox to Susan Donovan, September 30, 1851. 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana, Deed, Book R, 850.
                  
                     56
                     Ibid., B 415.
               
                     George Greene. Charles Greene, brother of George, was the last
                    survivor of his generation and the book was among his effects. He spent much of his mature life in 
                        Kansas City
                     and did not return to 
                        Vincennes
                     until long after the death of George in 1917. The Greene family had many books, some of
                    them doubtless coming into Charles' possession on his return to 
                        Vincennes
                    .57 It seems probable that George acquired the letter, due to his
                    interest in history, but whether before or after he wrote his work cannot now be determined. Local
                    pride may have been the deciding factor rather than knowledge of the truth.
            Jefferson Davis's letter reduces by one the number of famous folk who have visited or lived
                    in the Old Post. Many, however, remain firmly fixed in the annals of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and their well-authenticated associations will continue to make the town a favorite
                    place of pilgrimage for those interested in the history of early days.
            
               
                  57 Information from Mrs. Harry Beggs of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            The L. M. Taylor Store
            Bert Anson*
            
            Lathrop M. Taylor had entered the business world in 1827 as a clerk for S. Hanna and Company of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in charge of a trading post at the south bend of the St. Joseph
                    River. He must have been successful in his dealings at the post since four years later,
                    he was rewarded with a partnership in the 
                        South Bend
                     store, which was then called Hanna and Taylor.1 On July 26, 1836,
                    when the end of the partnership was announced in the local newspaper, the notice stated that Taylor
                    would settle the affairs of the firm.2 There was no indication, however, that he
                    would profit by collecting unpaid accounts of the previous store, as had been the case at the
                    beginning of the partnership. In the same year, Taylor began independent operations. His first years
                    were a struggle for survival because of the panic of 1837 which was a dominant factor in the eleven
                    years of Taylor's soie ownership.
            In the hope that he might improve the financial status of the business, Taylor began his independent
                    career with extensive advertising in the 
                        South Bend
                     newspaper.3
            
            During the summer of 1836, Taylor had been in 
                        New York
                     but in a letter to Brewster, Smart & Co. of 
                        Detroit
                     in September of that year, he gave no indication of financial trouble in the East.4 A letter three weeks later to J. Griffith & Co. was written to
                    register a complaint about a shipment of iron items which had been loaded by them at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    .6 Only about two-thirds of the material arrived with approximately
                    $1,476 worth being lost. This was followed by a letter to Brewster, Smart & Co.
                    two months later telling them to get all details, invoices, and depositions required.6 Someone 
                  
                     * Bert Anson is an instructor at James Whitcomb Riley High
                            School, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 See previous articles by the author, "The Early Years of
                            Lathrop M. Taylor, The Fur Trader," in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIV (1948), 367–383; and "Lathrop M. Taylor, Hanna and
                            Taylor Partnership," in ibid., XLV (1949), 147–170.
                  
                     2
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana Free Press, July 26, 1836.
                  
                     3
                     Ibid., and succeeding issues.
                  
                     4 L. M. Taylor to Brewster, Smart & Co. of 
                                Detroit
                            , September 5, 1836, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 75.
                  
                     5 L. M. Taylor to J. Griffith & Co. of 
                                St. Joseph
                            , September 27, 1836, in ibid., 75.
                  
                     6 L. M. Taylor to Brewster, Smart & Co. of 
                                Detroit
                            , November 19, 1836, in ibid., 82.
               
                     would have to pay for his iron. Two companies were concerned,
                    O. Newberry & Co. and Griffith & Co. It is probable that these were commission or
                    forwarding companies since Taylor was accustomed to traveling by the Great Lakes route from Buffalo
                    with the bulk of his purchases.7
            
            Taylor was also a leader in railroad improvement and banking reforms from 1837 to 1847. At a meeting
                    of the directors of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Buffalo Railroad in 
                        Goshen
                     authorization was given for the opening of books for subscription to capital stock in
                    the company. L. M. Taylor was designated to open the subscription book in 
                        South Bend
                     for five hundred shares of stock at par value of five dollars. Six weeks later John A.
                    Henricks was named to fill the post.8 No reason was given for the change.
            In March, 1837, Taylor announced his candidacy for reelection to the office of clerk of the circuit
                    court. There was no mention, however, of the office of county recorder which he also held. These two
                    offices included the duties of the present county auditor. In the election for clerk Tyra W. Bray
                    defeated Taylor. The latter was succeeded by William H. Patteson as county recorder in 1837.9 As a colonel of the militia and postmaster of 
                        South Bend
                    , Taylor still had close contacts with the people.
            From time to time Taylor was involved in controversial affairs. Among these was the Burnett estate.
                    Jordan Vigus wrote to John Tipton in February, 1837, concerning Taylor's obstinancy.10 Five months later Taylor wrote to Chase and 
                  
                     7 Lewis E. Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in
                            Mid-America in the University of 
                                Missouri
                            
                            Studies (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     , 1926-), XIV, No. 2 (1939),
                            100, has an account of the commission or forwarding companies.
                  
                     8
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana Free Press, January 10, 1837, and February 28, 1837.
                            Henricks was active in civic affairs. Timothy E. Howard, A History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 358, 378, 409, 446, and 453.
                  
                     9
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana Free Press, March 28, 1837; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 181, 182, 281, 357, and 358. Bray as county surveyor platted most
                            of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            . Patteson was a member of the first board of trustees when South Rend was
                            incorporated in 1844.
                  
                     10 Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.) The John
                                Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. 1942), III. 360–361. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the
                            Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-). Jordan Vigus, a native of 
                                Virginia
                            , was born September 17, 1792. He served with distinction the First 
                                Kentucky
                             Regiment during the war of 1812. In 1828 he settled in 
                                Logansport
                            , and ten years later became its first mayor. Jehu Z. Powell, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1913), II, 1206.
               
                     Stuart, 
                        Logansport
                     lawyers, that he had made out one thousand dollars in drafts on 
                        Tipton
                     and instructed the lawyers to collect on them or sue. The amount roughly equaled 
                        Tipton
                    's indebtedness to the Burnett estate.11 This affair
                    continued with attempts to collect from General Tipton's estate after his death in 1839.12
            
            Finances apparently were causing some people considerable worry since the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Free Press during the summer of 1837 contained many articles on the money market,
                    notices of bank failures, and land and property sales. Although Taylor had no advertisements in the
                    paper for about six months, his financial status must have been fair since he was able to pay the
                    principal on a note of sixteen hundred dollars to the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     bank in October, 1837. The interest had been ten per cent, and this may have served as
                    an incentive to pay the principal.18 A letter to Samuel Hanna explained that he
                    had forwarded one hundred dollars in three letters, which was all that was prudent to risk in the
                    mail because only "
                        Michigan
                     trash" circulated in 
                        South Bend
                    .14 Another letter written to Hanna four days later was very
                    discouraging since Taylor had been out in the country five days trying to collect accounts without
                    success. Instead, he spent six dollars. He wrote Hanna, "Times are gloomy
                        indeed."16
            
            On January 22, 1838, Taylor also wrote letters to Suydam and Jackson, Suydam and Sage, and Robert
                    Hyslop and Son, all wholesale merchants of 
                        New York
                    , making financial 
                  
                     11 L. M. Taylor to Chase and Stuart, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, July 16, 1837, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 93. William Z. Stuart,
                            a native of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , was born on December 25, 1811. In 1833 he was graduated from Amherst. He
                            located in 
                                Logansport
                             in 1836 and was admitted to the bar of Indiana. In 1852 he was elected to the
                            Supreme Bench of that state for a term of six years. A Biographical History of
                                Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1880), II, 10th District, 37–38. Taylor probably
                            referred to Henry Chase who was born in 
                        Saratoga County, New
                            York
                     , March 31, 1800. In 1827 he located in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , then went South, returned to Indiana in 1831 and three years later settled in 
                                Logansport
                            . Ibid., II, 10th District, 16.
                  
                     12 L. M. Taylor to William Z. Stuart, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, December 14 and 28, 1840, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 213, 215.
                  
                     13 L. M. Taylor to Cashier of the State Bank Branch at 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, October 19, 1837, in ibid., 97.
                  
                     14 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, November 8, 1837, in ibid., 98.
                  
                     15 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, November 12, 1837, in ibid., 99.
               
                     arrangements. While a Mr. Sage had been in the West visiting
                    retail merchants, he stopped at 
                        Indianapolis
                     but did not pass through 
                        South Bend
                    . Taylor had accumulated thirty-five hundred dollars to give him to take back for the
                    three stores in 
                        New York
                     to apply on his accounts. Instead and because of the difficulty in sending money, he
                    enclosed only two hundred dollars in each of the above-mentioned letters.16
            
            Early in the spring of 1838 in a letter to Hanna, Taylor gave a good summary of business conditions
                    during the past winter. The letter indicated the difficulties Taylor had encountered, the efforts he
                    was making to keep in business, and his reliance upon Hanna who was president of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     bank. Taylor was fortunate to have a brother-in-law to whom he could
                    say—"attend to my business." The letter also shows that Hanna retained
                    his interest in the sale of town lots in 
                        South Bend
                    . The growth of the town, however, had been temporarily halted because only two lots had
                    been sold during the year.17 Letters to Hanna always gave evidence of confidence
                    and deference. Since the panic had allowed collections of credit extensions through notes and charge
                    accounts, and the currency in circulation was usually unsound, except for local distribution, it was
                    important to have someone who could be depended on to secure drafts, notes, or currency which would
                    be accepted where Taylor's accounts were due. Then too, it was necessary to rely on friends
                    to transact business for him when transmitting money because there was no
                    reliable, fast communication or transportation system. A merchant who did business on a large scale
                    could not possibly take care of all transactions and operate his own store without assistance.
                    Taylor also performed services for his friends when he traveled on business.
            That Taylor was a necessary part of any financial movement in the local community is evidenced by the
                    fact that at a public meeting held on April 9, 1838, to select a Committee to draft resolutions to
                    obtain a 
                        South Bend
                     branch of the State Bank of Indiana, he was chosen as one of a committee of seven. A
                    memorial to the state bank directors was prepared, and the petition for a twelfth branch of the
                    state bank at 
                        South Bend
                     was approved. L. M. Taylor and Alexis 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 103, 104, 105.
                  
                     17 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, March 15, 1838, in ibid.,
                        124–125.
               
                     Coquillard were appointed commissioners to open the books for
                    stock subscription on August 2, 1838.18
            
            The sale of stock in the twelfth branch bank at 
                        South Bend
                     was very slow. The merchants required better financial arrangements especially during
                    hard times, but the panic in turn made it difficult for them to preserve their business enterprises,
                    and the new venture was an added risk. A final appeal on the last days of the drive for stock
                    finally secured enough capital.19 This may in part have been due to the fact
                    that a rumor circulated that 
                        Michigan City
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     banks were sending money to buy control, which aroused the people of 
                        South Bend
                     and Mishawalta sufficiently to respond immediately.
            The 
                        South Bend
                     bank was not an unqualified success in Taylor's estimation. When the state
                    board of bank directors sent one hundred and fifty dollars to pay Taylor, Coquillard and John Grant
                    for their services as agents in founding the bank, Taylor responded by sending a bill of one hundred
                    and fifty dollars for his own services and instructed his attorney, Philip Sweester of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to collect it or sue.20 Taylor did not approve of the policies of
                    the bank in charging two and one-half per cent premium to prepare a draft and two per cent to
                    discount drafts.21 He soon expressed a preference for money through other banks.
            Taylor made a departure from his previous business practices in May, 1838, by sounding out Robert
                    Hyslop and Sons on the possibility of borrowing money in the East at five per cent interest on
                    Western lands.22 Since there is no evidence that this was done and the usual
                    rate of interest was ten or more per cent, it is probable that he did not succeed in his attempted
                    venture. That he did not feel very kindly toward an Eastern firm was indicated in a letter to 
                  
                     18
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Free Press, April 14, and May 19, 1838.
                  
                     19 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, July 9 and 30, 1838, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 146, 147; and I,.
                            M. Taylor to James M. Ray, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, August 4, 1838, in ibid., 151.
                  
                     20 L. M. Taylor to Philip Sweester, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, March 4, 1839, in ibid., 172. For a sketch of
                            Sweester see George Pence, "Philip Sweester and His Times" in the Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII (1927), 378–392.
                  
                     21 L. M. Taylor to Suydam, Jackson & Co., 
                                New York
                            , March 22, 1839, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 167; L. M. Taylor to William
                            Brewster, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , December 6, 1839, in ibid., 188.
                  
                     22 L. M. Taylor to Robert Hyslop & Son, 
                                New York
                            , May 16, 1838, in ibid., 134.
               
                     Rupel and Howes of Buffalo because Taylor had lost goods valued
                    at $71.50 and requested the company to give prompt attention to the matter if they wanted
                    to retain his business.23
            
            In a letter to Caleb Shearon of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, written in May, 1838, Taylor gave some interesting facts about his fur
                    business. He was trying to find a market for sixty thousand muskrat skins at seventeen cents each in
                    order to receive some funds. The letter stated that if the skins were hauled to 
                        Richmond
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                     by his own team, they might produce good money at eighteen cents each. He closed the
                    letter by stating that he had already sent his father-in-law, Peter Johnson, with a load of
                    forty-nine hundred prime muskrat skins from the Kankakee.24 It was apparently
                    necessary to find new markets, and Taylor was casting about for them rather than accepting prices
                    offered by the American Fur Company or other fur houses. His initiative in using the new 
                        Michigan
                     Road to seek better markets may explain why he survived the panic.
            Another matter which gave Taylor some concern with respect to his business was the removal of the
                    Indians in the fall of 1838.25 He was sure that his fur business as well as
                    Indian trade would suffer, but there was some likelihood that the white trade and real estate
                    ventures would increase. Unfortunately the pages in his letter book for that period were cut out, as
                    were numerous pages written at the time of other important events, and it is difficult to give an
                    account of the business at that time.
            The year 1838, however, ended on a hopeful note. Taylor wrote his brother, Horace B. Taylor of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , in December that things were getting better, but he was far in arrears. He enclosed a
                    note for $1,312 to be used at the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     bank. Nevertheless, he was in airears because he sent Hugh McCulloch, the cashier of
                    the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     bank, $676 to apply on a note of $2,645.26
            
            
               
                  23 L. M. Taylor to Rupel & Howes, Buffalo, 
                            New York
                        , May 27, 1838. in ibid., 137.
               
                  24 L. M. Taylor to Caleb Shearon, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, May 31, 1838, in ibid., 138.
               
                  25 "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawatomie Indians,
                        1838" in Indiana Magazine of History, XXI (1925), 315–336;
                        Dwight L. Smith, "A Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi
                        Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscripts," in ibid., XLIV
                        (1948), 393–408.
               
                  26 L. M. Taylor to Horace B. Taylor, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, December 7, 1838, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 163; L. M. Taylor to
                    
            
            
            In April of the following year, Pitts Taylor, his brother and clerk, returned from the Kankakee where
                    he did not do much business and had found few Indians. At this time Taylor had on hand seven
                    thousand muskrat skins, five hundred raccoon skins, and a few other skins. While he had sold
                    $5,450.25 worth of furs to Brewster and the American Fur Company through Coquillard in
                    May, only $2,527 of the above amount was paid in cash, the balance was in notes.27
            
            Because of conditions, Taylor made his business connections with Brewster the basis for an
                    interesting series of maneuvers during the winter of 1839. He first asked for an advance of cash on
                    his expected winter's catch by requesting one thousand dollars in November and another
                    similar amount on January 15, 1840. Brewster, however, did not agree to such an arrangement until
                    December. Taylor promised the furs in the spring. The latter explained that the Ewings of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had promised him good prices, but since he had been dealing with Brewster for some time
                    and did not like the Ewings too well, he preferred to sell his furs to the 
                        New York
                     firm.28 Yet, Taylor wrote the Ewing and Walker Company at 
                        Logansport
                     that he might do business with them at his own prices and had about one thousand
                    raccoon skins and two hundred deer skins on hand. Two days later, however, he wrote Brewster again,
                    that the Ewings were trying to get in on the fur catches since the latter could only get
                    white-handled furs, which were inferior. He, therefore, was sending approximately three thousand
                    dollars in trade goods to the Kankakee where furs were plentiful, but the Indians were scarce.28
            
            Taylor then sent instructions to his clerk, Thomas S. Stanfield, who was at law school in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , that he was to meet the furs already sent to 
                        Cincinnati
                     on which the American Fur Company had advanced one thousand dollars. If they could be
                    sold at eighteen cents apiece, Taylor would refund the advance and clear a profit on the price given
                    by 
                  Hugh McCulloch, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, January 2, 1839, in ibid., 165. For a sketch of
                            McCulloch see A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State
                                of Indiana, II, 12th District, 49–50.
                  
                     27 L. M. Taylor to William Brewster, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , April 17, 1839, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 176; Taylor,
                            Sales, 33–36.
                  
                     28 L. M. Taylor to William Brewster, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , November 2 and December 6, 1839, in Taylor, Letters and
                            Orders, 186–188.
                  
                     29 L. M. Taylor to William Brewster, 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , December 19, 1839, in ibid.,
                            193–194.
               
                     Brewster.30 Due to the fact that several
                    pages were cut from the letter book, information is somewhat meager. Although evidence indicates
                    that Taylor was trying to hedge his sales for the best price possible, there is no proof of either
                    success or failures.
            Since Pitts Taylor had not been successful on the Kankakee the previous winter, Pierre F. Navarre, an
                    Indian trader, was outfitted in the fall of 1839. He restocked twice that winter for a total of
                    $1,641.95 in trade goods. A note was added in the sales book, "Navarre selling
                    the goods to the Pottawatomies. To account to Taylor for the goods at stated prices, but selling
                    them at his own discretion for his profit."21
            
            Notwithstanding the fact that Taylor was primarily interested in his business, he did show some
                    interest in politics. This was particularly true in 1840, which was a presidential campaign year,
                    when a 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Whig meeting in January of that year selected a Central Committee of Correspondence of
                    which Taylor was a member.32
            
            His association with the Whig party was possibly dictated by his experience with the financial
                    policies of the Jacksonian Democrats. According to the newspapers finances were low since there were
                    many notices of sheriff's sales, foreclosures, and changes of mercantile establishments
                    between 1838 and 1840. Taylor too was concerned about the debts and inserted a "Pay
                    Up" notice in the local newspaper in August. It read: "All persons indebted to me,
                    by note or book account, are requested to make immediate payment—my circumstances will
                    not warrant me in giving further indulgence."38
            
            Taylor also was directly concerned when General William B. Mitchell was sent to examine Indian claims
                    after the Potawatomi removals in 1838 and 1840. Although 
                        Mitchell
                     spent some time in 
                        South Bend
                     before returning to Washington, his findings were not disclosed immediately, but when
                    issued they were allowed as of September 1, 1540. Taylor wrote to King and Wilson, a law firm in 
                        Washington
                    , concerning some land deeds for neighbors. 
                        Mitchell
                     had given 
                  
                     30 L. M. Taylor to Thomas S. Stanfield, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , January 28, 1840, in ibid., 197. For a sketch
                            of Stanfield see History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , Chas. C. Chapman & Co., 1880), 509–512.
                  
                     31Taylor, Sales, 33–36.
                  
                     32
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Free Press, January 4, 1840.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., August 7, 1840.
               
                     him no hint as to the fate of his claims, but he had heard
                    rumors that 
                        Mitchell
                    , John Brownfield, and J. A. Liston were working together. Taylor had filed claims
                    amounting to fifty-two hundred dollars and requested an abstract of 
                        Mitchell
                    's report before it was issued officially. He also gave some general
                    information on the fur trade and the principle Indian traders of northern Indiana—Walker,
                    Ewing and Company; 
                        Hamilton
                     and Taber; J. B. Brown; Francis Comparet, David H. Colerick, and Dan Rousseau.
                    "Other persons than those I have mentioned I should look upon their accounts with distrust
                    but I do not know that I need to care what others get so I get what is justly due me."24
            
            
               
                        Mitchell
                    's report was issued on January 28, 1841, and in February, Taylor sent King and
                    Wilson his itemized statements of claims disallowed. 
                        Mitchell
                     had allowed claims of $4,229.24 and refused about nine hundred dollars.
                    Taylor later paid Coquillard $1,057.31 for collecting the claims, leaving him
                    $3,171.92 from original claims of fifty-two hundred dollars.35 This
                    was to clear all Indian claims of that time. Future settlements were for Indian credits incurred
                    after the Potawatomi removals of 1838 and 1840.
            When he returned from 
                        New York
                     in September 1840, Taylor was confined to his bed until late in the spring of 1841.
                    Part of his correspondence was prepared by Stanfield, and his attention to business was not allowed
                    to lapse. He frequently prodded Stuart of 
                        Logansport
                     for a settlement of the Burnett claims on the 
                        Tipton
                     estate.36 His real estate plans were carried forward by a series of
                    efforts initiated in February, 1841. An interesting phase was the attempt to secure the land
                    reserved to Peter Navarre, son of Pierre F. Navarre.
            The elder Navarre, an educated gentleman of French 
                  
                     34 L. M. Taylor to King and Wilson, Washington, D.C., December 5,
                            1840, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 210. For an account of the rivalry of the American Fur
                            Company and the Ewings, 1838–1842, see Paul C. Phillips, "The Fur Trade
                            in the Maumee-Wabash Valley," in Indiana University Studies (25 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1910–1938) XII (1925), 89–118.
                  
                     35 L. M. Taylor to King and Wilson, Washington, D.C., February 20,
                            1841, in ibid., 223. See also Taylor, Indian Accounts,
                            1840–1845. The notation is made at the end of the index of accounts carried. For
                            a copy of 
                                Mitchell
                            's report see House Executive Documents, 27 Cong., 2
                            Sess. (3 vols., serial nos. 401–403). III, No. 143.
                  
                     36 L. M. Taylor to William Z. Stuart, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, December 14, 28, 1840, and February 17, 1841, in Taylor, Letters and
                            Orders, 213, 215, 221.
               
                     descent, had left 
                  Monroe, Michigan
               , to establish
                    a trading post for the American Fur Company at the present site of 
                        South Bend
                     in 1820. Moreover, he had followed in the footsteps of his predecessors and married a
                    Potawatomi Indian, (Kichéonaykoy, Kes-he-wa-quay). To this union three sons and three
                    daughters were born. Because of his cordial relations with the Indians, he conducted outfits for
                    Taylor. When the Potawatomi emigrated west, he also followed his friends and relatives. Later,
                    however, he returned to 
                        South Bend
                     where he died at the home of his daughter on December 27,1864.37
                    Taylor meanwhile bought land from Navarre's wife in 1835, and six years later wished to
                    secure the land of Peter, one of Pierre's three sons.38
            
            In February, 1841, Stanfield wrote for Taylor to Pierre who was at 
                  Westport, Missouri
               ,
                    instructing him to go to the academy and get Peter's permission to sell. Seven months later
                    a letter was dispatched to Peter who was at the Choctaw Academy at White Sulphur Springs, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Since both Navarres had left liabilities, the sale of land was to care for these, and
                    Taylor stipulated that he would pay as much for the half section of land as anyone.39
            
            The distances involved made any transaction a slow affair, but Navarre's Indian claims were
                    soon allowed. Taylor attested his letter to Suydam and Kevan in November instructing them to pay
                    $2,523.70 in claims directly to Navarre. Coquillard had been given power of attorney to
                    collect but had failed in his agreement and should not have been given the money.40 There is no indication as to the nature of the agreement, just as there was no explanation
                    for the payment of over one thousand dollars to Coquillard for collecting the claims allowed by
                    General Mitchell. Information with respect to Navarre's real estate dealings ends with a
                    letter to Peter enclosing a five dollar loan.41
            
            Taylor's real estate problems, however, continued as is 
                  
                     37 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 130–131.
                  
                     38 Taylor, Merchandise Bought, 33–36.
                  
                     39 Thomas Stanfield for L. M. Taylor to Pierre F. Navarre,
                                    
                        Westport, Missouri
                     , February 6, 1841, in gaylor, Letters and
                            Orders, 220; Thomas Stanfield for L. M. Taylor to Peter Navarre, White Sulphur Springs, 
                                Kentucky
                            , September 30, 1841, in ibid., 241.
                  
                     40 L. M. Taylor to Suydam & Kevan, 
                                New York
                            , November 22, 1841, in ibid., 248.
                  
                     41 L. M. Taylor to Peter Navarre, White Sulphur Springs, 
                                Kentucky
                            , December 26, 1841, in ibid., 248.
               
                     indicated in a letter to Hanna in which he requested that a
                    note owed by his brother Horace be traded for some of Hanna's town lots or for one-half of
                    Hanna's eighty acres south of 
                        South Bend
                    . Horace owed L. M. Taylor $1,418.71, and his brother preferred real
                        estate.42 The only personal touch found in Taylor's letters to
                    Hanna appeared in one dated April 9, 1841, when he stated that "Horace is a pattern of his
                    father about paying his engagements." At this time he also made the first up-to-date
                    account of his 
                        South Bend
                     lot sales since 1836.43
            
            Meanwhile, the Washington attorneys were not successful in increasing the claims allowed against the
                    Potawatomi as of September 1, 1840, and Taylor sent power of attorney to Suydam and Kevan of 
                        New York
                     to collect from the Secretary of War on the claims allowed. They were to pay
                    Taylor's notes in 
                        New York
                    , but these did not appear large as he owed Suydam and Sage only $984.74 at
                    this time.44 An itemized account of a fur sale in May to Suydam and Sage
                    included 4,512 muskrat skins, 400 raccoon skins, 97 deer skins, and one pack of miscellaneous
                        skins.45
            
            Due to Taylor's long illness, he had a careful inventory of his possessions prepared. The
                    brief recapitulation which he also inserted at the end of the more detailed account is listed below.
                    This inventory shows that he had succeeded in weathering the panic of 1837 but had a staggering
                    increase of notes and other liabilities. The latter had been $6,880.10 in 1835 and were
                    now twice that amount. His assets also showed quite an increase. They had been
                    $18,-420.83 in 1835 and were now $32,539.75. While he had accumulated debts,
                    he also had acquired property, of which real estate was the largest single item. It is especially
                    noteworthy that the book accounts and notes were reduced in amount. The judgments which had been
                    secured equaled $2,811.65.46 Taylor had made active use of the courts
                    in his efforts to collect his accounts. Even though the depression had been severe, he had acquired
                    more land and bought stock in the 
                        South Bend
                     bank.
            
               
                  42 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, February 12, 1841, in ibid., 222.
               
                  43 Same to same, April 9, 1841, in ibid., 227.
               
                  44 L. M. Taylor to Suydam & Kevan, 
                            New York
                        , April 13, 1841, in ibid., 229.
               
                  45 L. M. Taylor to Suydam & Sage, 
                            New York
                        , May 28, 1841, in ibid., 232.
               
                  46 Taylor, Sales Book, 76.
            
            
            
               1841 Inventory Recapitulation47
               
               
                  Small Accounts
                  $ 58.17
                  
               
               
                  Liabilities
                  
                  
               
               
                  Note to Suydain Sage & Co.
                  984.74
                  
               
               
                  Note to Suydam Kevan & Co.
                  96.98
                  
               
               
                  Note to Willis & Brothers
                  109.63
                  
               
               
                  Note to Meade, Rogers & Co.
                  906.21
                  
               
               
                  Balance on Note to Varnum
                  343.78
                  
               
               
                  Note to J. V. Greenfield
                  22.40
                  
               
               
                  Note to Deckers L Churchill
                  1,544.73
                  
               
               
                  Note to Parson, Lawrence & Co.
                  1,610.54
                  
               
               
                  Note to Suydam & Kevan
                  262.64
                  
               
               
                  Note to Dibble, Bray & Co.
                  268.14
                  
               
               
                  Draft to Suydam, Sage & Co.
                  1,000.00
                  
               
               
                  S. W. Monson Administrator
                  17.25
                  
               
               
                  Note to Jeremiah Clai—
                  50.00
                  
               
               
                  Note to Jeremiah Clai
                  90.00
                  
               
               
                  Note to Ceidone
                  15.00
                  
               
               
                  Note on S. Bend Branch Bank
                  2,160.00
                  
               
               
                  Note on Ft. Wayne
                  882.00
                  
               
               
                  Note to Robert Hyslop
                  947.72
                  
               
               
                  Note to Suydam & Kevan
                  60.26
                  
               
               
                  James Burnett Estate
                  610.66
                  
               
               
                  Sam. Hanna
                  191.66
                  
               
               
                  July 15, 1841—Total—
                  $12,198.86
                  
               
               
                  Recapitulation of Stock
                  
                  
               
               
                  Merchandise
                  2,664.32
                  
               
               
                  Book Accounts
                  2,958.06
                  
               
               
                  Amount Accounts on Bills
                  310.58
                  
               
               
                  Am't Acc'ts on Suspended Ledger
                  400.67
                  
               
               
                  Am't Judgements
                  5,811.65
                  
               
               
                  Am't Indian Acc'ts Since 1840—Sept.
                  450.81
                  
               
               
                  Notes
                  5,763.07
                  
               
               
                  Indian Acc'ts to Sept.—1840
                  200.00
                  
               
               
                  Flour) at N.Y.
                  140.00
                  
               
               
                  Furs) at N.Y.
                  1,029.74
                  
               
               
                  40 shares pd. up Bank Stock
                  750.00
                  
               
               
                  5 shares Steamboat "Pocahantas"
                  
                  $ 500.00
               
               
                  10 Shares Buffalo & Mississippi R.R.
                  
                  115.00
               
               
                  2 Shares S. Rend Hay Scales
                  
                  15.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $23,959.75
               
               
                  Real Estate—Approximate Value
                  
                  8,580.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  32,539.76
               
               
                  
                  dt.
                  12,198.86
               
               
                  20.340.89
               
            
            
               
                  47
                        Ibid.
            
            
            The 
                        South Bend
                     bank situation was of vital concern to a merchant dealing with the currency problems of
                    the 1840's.48 Then too, there was to be a factional contest for a
                    director in this bank in October, 1841, and Taylor asked Hanna's assistance in getting a
                    Dr. Thompson's proxy.49 Taylor had reason for concern since he had sent
                    a draft to Robert Hyslop and Soil in 
                        New York
                    , and the local bank had charged five per cent for discounting it.50
                    The situation became worse in November when the State Bank of Indiana withdrew permission for the
                    twelfth branch to loan money or discount for three months. There may have been an infraction of the
                    charter. This tended to freeze money in 
                        South Bend
                    , and Taylor asked Hanna for a loan of two to six thousand dollars, which he would
                    obtain for his brother Pitts. The latter was prepared for the pork-packing season but was now unable
                    to secure cash to buy the farmers' pork.51
            
            Probably to improve his financial status, Navarre took an outfit to the Kankakee that winter stocked
                    with $1,421.65 in goods and charged to collect $1,542.20 in Indian accounts.
                    In April, 1842, he returned with $286.06 of unsold goods, $231.87 in collected
                    accounts, and furs worth $997.57.52 There were Indians on the
                    Kankakee and in southwestern 
                        Michigan
                    , until the last of the series of removals in 1851.
            Since Taylor's Letters and Orders ended in 1841 and there were no newspaper files available
                    for the period from 1842 to 1845, there is little information 011 his activities for this period.
                    The Sales Book and the Indian accounts, Ledgers B and C, contain only a small amount of data on his
                    fur trade.
            On May 1, 1843, the Ewing Brothers of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     bought furs valued at $2,483.99. The shipment contained eleven packs of two
                    hundred skins each, of which raccoon skins were the largest item recorded.53 In
                    May of the following year Brewster of 
                        Detroit
                     paid $1,938.75 for Taylor's 
                  
                     48 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant,
                            102–116, gives an excellent account of common practices at this time in relation
                            to bills, exchange, currency, credits, and accounts.
                  
                     49 L. M. Taylor to Samuel Hanna, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, October 13, 1841, in Taylor, Letters and Orders, 244.
                  
                     50 L. M. Taylor to Robert Hyslop & Son, 
                                New York
                            , November 2, 1841, in ibid., 245.
                  
                     51 Same to same, November 19, 1841, in ibid., 245.
                  
                     52 Taylor, Sales Book, 80–89.
                  
                     53
                     Ibid., 94.
               
                     furs.54 Another entry of interest is the
                    fifteen dollars a month paid to Joseph Bertrand, an Indian trader, for operating the Kankakee
                    outfit. He took goods worth twenty-one hundred dollars to the Kankakee in the fall of 1844.55 There is no record of his return. Taylor assumed more risk for his
                    outfit's failure in this case, but if it was successful his profits were all his own.
            That Taylor was anxious to improve his finances is further indicated by the insertion of a
                    "Look Out" advertisement and an ad for furs in the winter of 1845.56 The "Look Out" notice was a boxed advertisement that debtors must pay
                    or face legal action. It was not as preemptory, however, as an earlier "Pay Up"
                    advertisement.
            The railroad construction problem was also revived at this time. Since the 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     railroad company had been submerged by the panic of 1837, several hundred people
                    petitioned for a meeting of all those friendly to a 
                        Toledo
                    -
                        Chicago
                     railroad. Taylor was among those who signed the petition.57 He also
                    was one of fifteen men who called a public meeting in February, 1846, to subscribe to the rebuilding
                    of a sawmill owned by a Dr. Finley, which had burned.58
            
            In December, 1846, the railroad question again came into the foreground. At a public meeting a
                    committee was appointed to present resolutions to the Indiana state legislature in order that the
                    transportation problem might receive due consideration. The committee was composed of John
                    Brown-field, William Miller, J. A. Liston, Schuyler Colfax, and L. M. Taylor.59
                    William B. Ogden, the president of the 
                        Chicago
                     and Galena Railroad, wanted to connect his road to the 
                        Michigan
                     Central, which was considering alternate routes to 
                        Chicago
                    . Taylor met Ogden in 
                        La Porte
                     in August, 1847, for a conference and returned with a letter for the public 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 95.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 97–104.
                  
                     56
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, St. Joseph Valley Register, December 15, 1846, and
                            February 27, 1846.
                  
                     57
                     Ibid., December 16, 1846; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 236–242.
                  
                     58
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, St. Joseph Valley Register, February 27, 1846.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., December 26, 1846.
               
                     which stated the latter's arguments.60 In September a convention of the friends of the 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad met in the Methodist church in 
                        Mishawaka
                     to further the interests of this road. Taylor was named chairman of the nominating
                    committee. ITe also was chosen with H. E. Hurlburt of 
                        Mishawaka
                     to vote the proxies of the county committees in favor of the 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     company. In addition to the above-mentioned appointments, he accepted a third one as
                    the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     member on the company board of directors.61 His influence, however,
                    was short-lived, for Ogden won control of the route and policies of the railroad by gaining a
                    majority of the stock with the help of 
                        Mishawaka
                     interests.62
            
            While other interests occasionally diverted Taylor's mind from the fur business, it was,
                    however, the most important activity in which he engaged. In May, 1846, two outfits led by Bertrand
                    and Chris Wolf returned from the fur ground with the season's catch, which amounted to
                    $2,370.24 worth of furs.63 The following spring Bertrand bought furs
                    from Taylor for which he paid $1,099.51.64 This was a departure from
                    previous years, for Bertrand had formerly been in Taylor's employ. A list of the fur shows
                    that mink skins had become a staple article while the number of muskrat was small in comparison with
                    the catches of previous years. This was probably not the season's catch, but the only
                    transaction recorded. Muskrat were still the staple article of the trade, and deer skins were still
                    taken in quantities.
            
               Furs Sold by Taylor to Bertrand
               
                  665 Raccoon skins
                  9 Red Fox
               
               
                  668 Mink
                  2 Grey Fox
               
               
                  53 Buck
                  30 Wolf
               
               
                  196 Doe and Fawn
                  4 Otter
               
               
                  890 Muskrat
                  2 Oppossum
               
               
                  10 Wild cat —
                  
               
               
                  
                  2,475 Total
               
            
            
               
                  60
                  Ibid., August 20, 1847. For a goad account of
                        Ogden's importance in the railroad expansion of the Middle Weat see Stewart H.
                        Holbrook, The Story of American Railroads (
                            New York
                        , 1947), 88–90, 133–135.
               
                  61
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, 
                     St. Joseph Valley Register,
                        September 3, 1847.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., September 10, 1847.
               
                  63 Taylor, Sales Book, 116–149.
               
                  64
                        Ibid., 133.
            
            
            This was the last transaction which was recorded for the L. M. Taylor store. A "Sold
                    Out" advertisement appeared on October 8, 1847, asking customers to call and settle their
                        bills.65 The next week Pitts Taylor advertised his start in L. M.
                    Taylor's store location. He had just bought the entire stock, and "will not be
                    undersold." His goods were brought by the railroad.65 He had previously
                    clerked for his brother and engaged in the pork-packing business. There is no record of the reasons
                    for this change. L. M. Taylor continued to buy and sell goods, especially furs, but there is no
                    mention of his location. He may have used a part of his old store for headquarters and storage or a
                    part of his home located where the Wyman store now stands.67
            
            The period from 1836 to 1847 was the most strenuous of L. M. Taylor's career. The factor
                    which conditioned most of his business affairs was the panic of 1837. Because hc was able to avoid
                    bankruptcy and expand during the panic, his financial condition was firm in the 1840's.
                    During the following decade, his interests shifted from Indian trade to white trade. He also became
                    vitally concerned with internal improvements and real estate. This period also saw his gradual
                    retirement from numerous public offices, though he continued to remain active in civic affairs.
            
               
                  65
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, 
                     St. Joseph Valley Register,
                        October 8, 1847.
               
                  66
                  Ibid., October 15, 1847.
               
                  67
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, Daily Tribune, August 30, 1892.
            
         
         
         
            Dinner and Toasts Commemorating the publication of Indiana Authors and their
                    Books
            
            A group of Indiana literati gathered at the 
                        Columbia
                     Club in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on April 18, 1949, to enjoy the hospitality of Lee McCanliss and to celebrate the
                    appearance of Indiana Authors and their Books, 1816–1916 (see review on
                    pages 293–295). During the course of the evening after the guests had enjoyed a bounteous
                    dinner, toasts to various Indiana authors were delivered. In some instances these were delivered by
                    individuals who had known the authors personally and an item or two appeared which deserve to be
                    recorded. Unfortunately some of the toasts were extemporaneous and no record was made. Because
                    something of the spirit of the writers was pictured in these remarks and because the pleasant and
                    memorable occasion requires a brief record, the following toasts are published.
            Charles Major
            
                    Anton Scherrer*
               
                
            In his arguments for the immortality of the soul, Cicero polished off the subject with a kind of
                    afterthought of startling modernity—unique, so far as I know, in classical philosophy.
                    "No one," said he, "has ever been able to persuade me that the memory of
                    great men and their achievements would endure so long were they not themselves still alive and
                    active in promoting it." As Cicero saw it, the souls of the distinguished dead spend their
                    long Elysian hours promoting their publicity and watching their political fences.
            There is considerable evidence of a circumstantial nature to support his thesis. At any rate, there
                    is every reason to suspect that the successful "Great Books" movement originated
                    not in this world, as is generally believed, but in the celestial state of bliss known as Elysium;
                    moreover, that it was the result of a conspiracy on the part of a group of bitter
                    immortals—like as not led by the shades of Plato and Aristotle—who, for the
                    past thirty years and more, have 
                  
                     * Anton Scherrer is a member of the Executive Committee of
                            the Indiana Historical Society and a columnist for the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     worried themselves sick watching the gradual and
                    ever-increasing decline of the reputations they left behind. Nor is it possible to account for the
                    general awareness of the biographical fact that this year marks the bicentennial of
                    Goethe's birth without suspecting that the ghost of Frankfurt's Wunderkind had a
                    hand in peddling the news.
            And except for one conflicting fact, there is reason, too, to suspect that the group of Hoosier
                    immortals we celebrate tonight not only conceived but actually abetted the plans of this sumptious
                    testimonial dinner. The damaging evidence, in this case, comes by way of the rather obvious
                    discovery that had Charles Major been a party to such a plot he most certainly would have picked a
                    more articulate booster than me to handle his publicity. There is nothing I can say to increase the
                    stature of Charles Major. His place among the immortals is assured. I share a secret concerning two
                    and, possibly, three collaborators, however, without whose help the novel-writing 
                        Shelbyville
                     lawyer never could have attained the purple heights. And knowing what I do about the
                    generous side of his nature—to say nothing of the Ciceronian concept—I feel
                    fairly certain that Major would want me to give the story the widest possible circulation. An
                    occasion such as this appears to be designed for the purpose. One of the collaborators was Lee Burns
                    who, thank Heaven, is still with us. The other one was John J. Curtis of blessed memory. As for the
                    third, his identity will emerge as the plot develops.
            Fifty years ago the Bowen-Merrill people had Mr. Burns out on the road selling law books. He covered
                    the entire state and, in the course of his professional perambulations, got to know every reputable
                    lawyer including Charles Major of 
                        Shelbyville
                    . It was on one of these occasions that the youthful book agent attempted to sell the
                    seasoned lawyer the choicest item of his distinguished line. Major declined in a voice that Mr.
                    Burns recognized as final.
            A situation such as this called for savoir-faire, a God-given gift of which Mr. Burns had, and still
                    has, plenty; enough, indeed to equip a dozen men. Thus by dint of playing his cards right, Mr. Burns
                    learned that Major had written a novel in his spare time. What's more, that he had
                    submitted it to Harpers who wanted no part of it. The dejected lawyer wondered whether it was worth
                    while to let the Bowen-Merrill people have a look at it.
            
            When Mr. Burns returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he dumped the Major manuscript into the lap of John J. Curtis who, at that time, ran
                    the publishing end of the Bowen-Merrill Company, a department then still in its infancy. For some
                    reason, Curtis was too busy to read the manuscript right away. And so it came to pass that Mr.
                    Burns' intellectual curiosity got the better of him; thus establishing the first point I
                    want to make—namely, that Mr. Burns was the first in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and possibly anywhere in the world outside of Major's immediate family, to
                    read the novel in manuscript form. I deliberately dismiss the Harper people because of the highly
                    probable fact that they never took the trouble to unwrap the manuscript, a not unreasonable
                    conjecture when one reflects that Harpers had all they could do at the time supplying the demand for
                    a 
                        Crawfordsville
                     lawyer's best seller.
            Eventually, however, Curtis got around to reading the manuscript, too. He liked it as well as Mr.
                    Burns did. All except the title. The more he thought of "Charlie Brandon, Duke of
                    Suffolk" as the name of a gripping love story with the colorful background of the sixteenth
                    century, the more it got on his nerves. And there's no telling what might have happened to
                    Major's manuscript—or, indeed, to Curtis' nerves—had not an
                    eighteenth century poet continued to get into the act. Anyway, one night preparatory to going to
                    bed, Curtis picked up Leigh Hunt's "The Gentle Armour" when suddenly, not
                    unlike the behavior of a well-greased Jack-in-the-Box, two exquisite lines leaped from the page:
                        
                        "There lived a knight, when knighthood was in flower, Who charmed alike the tiltyard
                            and the bower."
                    
                
            Which leaves me only to account for the singular circumstance that moved Curtis to pick up Leigh
                    Hunt's poem at that precise moment. Obviously it was an act inspired from above by an
                    almost forgotten English poet who, in 1898, after an Elysian residence of almost forty years, had
                    watched his reputation slipping; to such an alarming degree, indeed, that he set out to do something
                    about it—thus confirming the soundness of Cicero's argument for the immortality
                    of the soul.
            
            Booth Tarkington
            
                    John G. Rauch*
               
                
            In a group such as this there is little need to discuss Booth Tarkington as a writer. While all of
                    his work is not of uniform quality, he did create some characters, Penrod, Alice Adams, The Man from
                    Home, who have taken their places as immortals of English literature on the level with Tom Jones,
                    Pickwick, Micawber, Becky Sharpe, Sherlock Holmes, and the host of imaginary characters who are more
                    real to many of us than most of our personal acquaintances.
            That is an accomplishment of the first order and places Tarkington in the forefront of the host of
                    Hoosier writers who are enshrined in the bibliography just published.
            But I should like to pause for a few brief moments to speak of Booth Tarkington as a man, a
                    personality, who until just the other day was still among us and enjoying to the very end the
                    various interests with which he enriched his life aside from writing. For his was a rich
                    personality, of high spirits and of a lively, humorous fancy. He loved life. He loved good company.
                    He loved luxury and lived in the grand style.
            At the peak of his powers, from 1910 to 1930, when his books were best sellers and he had hits
                    playing on 
                        Broadway
                    , he made and spent large sums. He is still remembered in 
                        New York
                     at the Lambs Club and other gathering places of old writers and artists and actors as
                    the intimate of John Barrymore and James Montgomery Flagg and some of the greatest playboys of 
                        Broadway
                    . He was full of fun and was ready for a frolic at the drop of a hat. He loved life and
                    lived hard and was a gay spirit. His friends were legion, and his cheerful, happy nature endeared
                    him to all of us.
            In later life he collected beautiful objects of all sorts—paintings, porcelains, and
                    fabrics. He maintained a magnificent estate at Kennebunkport, 
                        Maine
                    , which he filled with things of rare beauty. He loved his garden, although he knew
                    nothing of horticulture. His wife tells how he would walk about the grounds with his trained
                    gardener and say "I want some red there—some heliotrope—some blues
                    there." It was 
                  
                     * John G. Rauch is an attorney and First Vice-President of
                            the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     up to the gardener to get the plants. But the effect was
                    gorgeous and suited his exacting tastes.
            He worked each day almost to the end dictating rapidly to his secretary. He preferred this to
                    changing his way of life and living more restfully and modestly. He preferred to work and spend and
                    if the quality of his labor output was not up to his best, the quality of his personality never
                    deteriorated. At seventy he had not yet passed the age of laughter and adventure.
            He had a great life and he enjoyed every minute of it. And so I give you Booth Tarkington, the
                    aesthete, the bon vivant of all of our writers. He was a connoisseur of life.
            George Ade
            
                    John H. Moriarty*
               
                
            Here is a toast to George Ade first because he on June 9, 1887, predicted that "the hub of
                    the literary universe is about to shift from 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , to
                    an indefinite region which includes 
                  Crawfordsville,
                            Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Indiana." This prediction was made in a student valedictory at Purdue at the
                    end of a stay there of which it has been said: No other college could have done this man less harm.
                    And we toast him next because he went to 
                        Chicago
                     in the nineties and looked upon that fierce and dazzling city as only a newspaper
                    reporter can. He saw what Lincoln Steffens saw and Upton Sinclair saw but he left for us pictures of
                    it not as a muckracker but as an average person had to see it, compelled to live there day after day
                    and pushed to get some laughter and jokes out of life. We today know we toast the Fables in Slang
                    for their social commentary as well as their concealed art. But our country boy himself went from
                    one big city, 
                        Chicago
                    , on to a bigger one, 
                        New York
                    , and we here only follow many another toast to the Sultan of Sulu, to the County
                    Chairman, the College Widow, Marse Covington, the Fair Coed, and Indiana's most successful
                    playwright.
            And now we must toast a man who consolidated theatrical and literary success as few others have. A
                    man who cultivated host of friends both high and low and amazingly 
                  
                     * John H. Moriarty is director of Purdue University
                            Libraries, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
               
                     his own family too; who lived as pleasantly as most of us would
                    ever want to, a traveler twice around the planet of his choice as he said; a shrewd farmer, a fine
                    citizen, an ideal host, a generous alumnus to Purdue, in fine, a delightful celebrity as American as
                    any of his stories. To this great Hoosier writer, personality, and Epicurean philosopher, I ask you
                    to join in a toast, George Ade.
            Kin Hubbard
            
                    Stephen C. Noland*
               
                
            Our Kin Hubbard was born Frank McKinney Hubbard at Bellefontaine, 
                        Ohio
                    , September 1, 1868, and died in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 26, 1930. He came to the News in 1891 as a chalk plate
                    artist and became a caricaturist. His cracks attributed to a lanky rustic began to appear in the News December 31, 1904. Mixing sketches and lines produced laughs and led to his
                    permanent assignment to keep his character, whom he called Abe Martin, going. His signature on his
                    drawings was "Hub" which he made with six vertical lines which could not be read
                    as spelling anything. Thus Hubbard became Abe Martin.
            On the jacket of Hubbard's 1929 annual Christmas book is this writing by 0. O. McIntyre:
                    "Will Rogers, who is no slouch of a wit himself, once told me: ‘Kin is the
                    funniest man in America.’ I'll take in a little more territory. … Kin
                    is the ‘funniest guy in the world.’"
            Most of Kin's cracks were in the form of personals as written by country editors. But he
                    ranged as whimsy and the passing scene caught him up. He said humor is not what you say, but what
                    you nearly say.
            Twenty and more years ago he was saying about the automobile: " ‘I did want
                    t’ live to see President Hoover drive poverty from our land, but I reckon I'll
                    have t’ miss it,’ said Gran'maw Pash after tryin’ to cross
                    the street."
            " ‘I can't say whether he was killed in an auto accident, or died in the
                    middle of the week,’ said Mrs. Tilford Moots, when she read a pustal card
                    sayin’ her Uncle wuz dead."
            "It takes some concentratin’ to cross a street and remember what fer."
            
               
                  * Stephen C. Noland is the editor of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Prohibition was in his time and with us when he died. He sometimes linked it with the auto.
            "It is estimated that the traffic across the Detroit River can be
                    speeded up to 989,000 quarts an hour."
            "Tell Binkly starts for Californy in his auto tomorrow, an’ he's
                    tryin’ to find a wet and dry map o’ the western states."
            Back in 1916 Kin was on the prohibition question and never let up.
            "If we have national prohibition, there'll be more reformers than bartenders starve
                    to death."
            "Mr. and Mrs. Tilford Moots were awakened last night by burglars singin’ in ther
                    cellar."
            "‘I wish it was against the law t' run a grocery, so I could make some
                    money,’ says Lon Moon."
            Some people thought he was a little sharp in his digs at women.
            "Mrs. Tillie Mapes, long prominent in political an’ club life an’ a
                    writer of considerable power, has received word that her husband is still alive an’
                    livin’ in 
                        Iowa
                    ."
            "Tilford Moot's mother-in-law is gonna visit him anyhow."
            " ‘Women are jist like elephants t’ me. I like to see ‘em
                    but I wouldn't want one,’ said Tell Binkly t'day."
            "Elmer Bud has quit goin’ with his girl till he can save enough to marry
                    her."
            "Miss Tawny Apple said she'd get a new fall hat if she thought anybody'd
                    look that high."
            "Miss Garnet Pash is in town havin’ a little prenuptial dental work
                    done."
            "Miss Fawn Lippincut has adopted a fern."
            "Women suffrage hasn't changed a blame thing but a lot 0’
                    women."
            "Everybody's on vacation an’ the ole town is as quiet as a prominent
                    woman's husband."
            "Miss Fawn Lippincut has the ole skillet her mother broke up housekeepin’
                    with."
            "You kin bluff any woman by tellin’ her to do as she pleases."
            "
                        Chester
                     Moots an’ his wife have been married goin’ on a year
                    an’ git along just fine. He's an Artic explorer and she's a girdle
                    fitter at the Monarch 5 & 10."
            
            Of people and their doings:
            "Ther's no thrill like findin’ a dime in an ole vest."
            "By the time some fellers finally git ready t’ pay you, it's jist like
                    findin’ it."
            "A diplomat is a feller that let's you do all the talkin’ while he gets
                    what he wants."
            "It's all right to be poetic if you can spare th’ time."
            "Business got so bad at the Fairy Grotto nickel theayter last week that they had
                    t’ put out the ‘Adults Only’ sign."
            "I don't believe I ever heard anybody say they wanted a Christmas card for
                    Christmas."
            "Th’ worst waste of breath, next t’ playin’ a saxophone, is
                    advisin’ a son."
            "
                        Tipton
                     Bud has the sawdust contract for th’ revival at the Baptist
                    church."
            "Mrs. Tilford Moots's niece has three children—two goin’
                    t’ school and one t’ th’ dentist's."
            On life in general:
            "Th' world gits better ever’ day—then worse agin in the
                    evenin'."
            On such appearances as this:
            "One 0’ the finest accomplishments is makin’ a long story
                    short."
            And:
            "The feller who speaks from a manuscript at least knows when to quit."
            Theodore Dreiser
            
                    Corbin Patrick*
               
                
            I propose we drink to the honor or salvation, as you choose, of the man who made Kinsey possible;
                    whose father, the child, grew up on the other side of the tracks and resented it bitterly; the black
                    sheep among Indiana's authors, the prodigal son who never came home; the greatest American
                    novelist of all, a voice crying in the wilderness—or, a mere reporter and a bad one, with
                    no sense of shame, whose shocking frankness gave hypocrisy the tinge of virtue. Whatever the
                    judgment, the fact remains he assisted powerfully in changing the course of this country's
                    literature. He 
                  
                     * Corbin Patrick is music and literary editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     pioneered a new school of realism which has won many followers,
                    and he fought persistently to defend its point of view. Faulkner, Hemingway, 
                        Caldwell
                    , Farrell, and Steinbeck have him to thank for their relative freedom to present life as
                    they see fit, despite would-be censors. He gave the censors battle, and he gave then cause. Never at
                    peace with the world or himself, this man was full of conflicts and contradictions. He believed that
                    most lives are failures and that human beings are powerless to change their destinies; yet he became
                    a worker for social reform. He was a free-thinking individualist, yet he joined the Communist party
                    and believed Stalin was a truly spiritual person. This most controversial of Indiana writers once
                    wrote: "In short, I catch no meaning from all I have seen, and pass quite as I came,
                    confused and dismayed." To his more discriminating followers, he was a brooding, clumsy,
                    earthbound giant, of little talent but much genius.
            The Might Have Beens
            
                    Richard E. Banta*
               
                
            To those who might have been—who, but for faltering of muse or pen had scaled the peaks.
                    God rest their souls; they dreamed and dreaming saw the bright hills clear as those who gained the
                    height. To Elmore, James Buchanan, Bard of 
                        Alamo
                     and celebrator of the fame of sassafras and Jackville; Balhinch and the Monon; Autumn
                    Roses and Lovers in Cuba. To Clodfelter, Noah J., traction car magnate, who gave us that stirring
                    title Saved From the Poor House. To Martha Finley, mother of Elsie Dinsmore. To
                    Luther Benson, apostle of reform, who warned us from the flowing bowl with his Fifteen
                        Years In Hell. To Rose Hartwick Thorpe, whose Curfew Must Not Ring
                    Tonight shall reverberate down through the ages as long as elocutionists persist. To all those
                    others who, except for a minor lack of alchemy, might easily have brewed themselves a cup of
                    fame—but failing that have still the power to wave a half-triumphant hand to charm us
                    from beyond the grave.
            
               
                  * Richard E. Banta is a resident of 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana, and the editor of Indiana. Authors and their
                    Books.
            
            
            Maurice Thompson
            
                    James I. Osborn*
               
                
            About a 
                        Crawfordsville
                     boy there was an atmosphere of real veneration for the great writers of Indiana,
                    particularly for General Wallace and for Maurice Thompson. About these men, there were many things
                    wonderful to a boyish mind. The one thing that seemed most amazing was that a great national weekly
                    magazine of opinion, published in 
                        New York
                    , The Independent, had as its literary editor not a New Yorker nor a
                    Bostonian, but a man living along with the rest of us in our own Indiana county seat. That still
                    seems rather wonderful.
            When Hoosier Mosaics came out, in the middle seventies, an alarmed Eastern reviewer exclaimed,
                    "Here comes another Goth from the other side of the mountains!" And he went on to
                    deplore the injury done to American literature by the low-ness of tone, the hopeless vulgarity of
                    Mark Twain, Bret Harte, Eggleston,—and now this newcomer. The reputations of the other
                    Goths have taken care of themselves very well. And as for Thompson, within a few years after Hoosier
                    Mosaics he was supplying the publishers of books and magazines with novels and short stories,
                    essays, and poems, as carefully finished, as urbane, as anything that was being produced in the
                    East; and he was criticizing other men's books with what was everywhere recognized to be
                    keen perception, sure taste, dependable judgment.
            He began to write when it was the general belief that to be a Hoosier was to be a Barbarian and a
                    Yokel. He had a great deal to do with changing that belief. In this he did us all a service, and it
                    is with gratitude for that service in mind, that I give you—Maurice Thompson.
            
               
                  * James I. Osborn is head of the English department at 
                            Wabash
                         College, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Diary of Lieutenant Frank Hughes
            Edited by Norman Niccum*
            
            Frank Hughes of Adams, 
                        Decatur County
                    , Indiana, was commissioned as a first lieutenant of Company E, Thirty-seventh Regiment
                    Indiana Volunteers on September 10, 1861. Seventeen months later he was promoted to captain which
                    position he held until July 28, 1864, when he died of wounds at 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               .1
            
            The diary covers the period from May 4 to July 9, 1862, with the first entry made at
                            
                  Athens, Alabama
               , and the last item entered at 
                  Madison, Georgia
               . On May 9, 1862, Hughes and approximately forty other members of
                    Company E were captured at the Battle of Elk River. The prisoners were marched through Moulton to 
                        Tuscaloosa
                    . Their stay, however, was short since they were ordered to 
                        Montgomery
                     on May 21. Nine days later they were transferred to Macon, 
                        Georgia
                    , where they remained until July 9, when the prisoners were ordered to 
                        Madison
                    .2
            
            The significance of the diary lies in its portrayal of conditions in Confederate prisons in which
                    Hughes was confined. There are also many passages referring to the beauty of some of the Southern
                    towns. Then too, Hughes apparently was impressed with the vegetation in Dixie and often commented
                    upon it.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                                        Athens
                                        Ala
                                     Sunday Morn. May 4th 62
                        Last night Capt Lord & I received orders from General Turchin to take our
                                    respective companies toward Elk river & guard R.R. Bridges. Capt Lord takes
                                    first Post at 10 miles from 
                                        Athens
                                    . I go on to Mill Creek 12 mils farther within 2 mils of Elk River
                                        Bridge.3 Some sprinkling of rain to day. Orderly Harvey E.
                                    Rickets A. Knapp & I proceed 
                              
                                 * Norman Niccum is a resident of Tecumseh, 
                                                Kansas
                                            . The diary is in the possession of Lee E. Hughes,
                                                    
                                    Ottawa, Kansas
                                 , who is a great
                                            nephew of Frank Hughes.
                              
                                 1
                                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8
                                            vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, 1869), 11, 367; George H. Puntenney, History of the Thirty-Seventh Regiment of Indiana Infantry
                                            Volunteers (Rushville, Indiana, 1896), 143.
                              
                                 2 For a brief sketch of the capture see also
                                            Puntenney, History of the Thirty-Seventh Regiment of Indiana
                                                Infantry Volunteers, 26–27.
                              
                                 3 In the diary someone has drawn a line through 12 and
                                            written in a 3.
                           
                                     on a scout after dark to Mr W. Holts Make a
                                    trip out over the Mounts return 12 1/2 rained very hard I can remember all we done
                                    that night. I changed relief and laid down to rest
                        May 5th Rained all day to day we laid in Bunks
                        May 6 nothing of any importance occurs to day
                        May 7th We have had two reliefs on guard only. To night I make three by reducing the
                                    number on Post I have become acquainted with the country now. Find nearly all the
                                    Shot guns are out in service. Swango meets his accident the eveng by a pistol shot
                                    in the mouth. Goes to Town.
                        May 8th Lieut Shafer went to Bethel with a squad of men yesterday reports all quiet
                                    on the river To day was pleasant & fair I insist upon vigilant guarding.
                                    Some think it useless.
                        May 9th A beautiful morning I take a squad and go to the old Mill for corn meal. We
                                    return at 10 A.M. Capt Connet arrives at 10 1/2 with 24 more men all have a good
                                    time congratulating reading letter &c when firing is heard on the Hill, we
                                    know in an instant that tis the Enemy. We prepare for action in a moment Deploy as
                                    skirmishers. Cavalry are swarming around us hailing Buck & Ball upon us
                                    constant firing is kept up upon both sides for 25 minuits, we surrender to
                                    overwhelming force of 750 cavalry men. The wounded are carried to gether at the
                                    springs. Robt Heaton & A. C. Scull were killed. Morgan Jordon, Whitlow,
                                    Conner and Tillison are Mortaly wounded. The camp is pillaged by the Rangers.
                                    Blankets coats and some watches were taken from the boys. We see horses and men
                                    lying upon every side. Prisoners are all collected under guard and put on a quick
                                    march from the Battle ground to Elk River Capt Connet received seven Buck and ball
                                    shots but not dangerously wounded. Those slightly wounded were made to walk but Capt
                                    Connet and five of the boys were convey in wagons that afternoon. Crossed the Elk
                                    River at 3 P.M. stop at 5 & get some corn bread go on the march till 8 P.M.
                                    all get in oxwagons drive all night arrived at daylight at Col Woodwards
                                    camp—remain till 4 P.M. of this day the 10th and start to the Tennessee
                                    R. cross at 9 P.M. on a small ferry—and camp on the south banks of the 
                                        Tennessee
                                    
                        
                        Sunday May 11th A beautiful morning walked 4 miles took breakfast and continued on to
                                    Courtland Left Capt Connet, O. M. Garret H. Creed A. O. Scull Jas Hanger We
                                    ascertained yesterday that we had killed about 13 men & two of their best
                                    captains 80 of the 
                                        Texas
                                     Rangers were the (1st) first 
                                        Kentucky
                                     cavalry C. S. Army who captured our little Band of 45 men Capt H. E.
                                    Lord & Lieut Shafer were about 1/4 Mile up the creek were picked up by texas
                                    Rangers Marched 14 miles today
                        Monday Morning May 12 Slept in a Cotton Gin House last night take breakfast this
                                    morning at 8 start on our March to Moulton 17 seventeen Miles toward Old 
                                        Tuscaloosa
                                    . We begin to realize that we are in the most desolate barren and God
                                    forsaken country our eyes ever beheld—Arrive at Moulton at 4 P.M. take
                                    quarters in the CourtHouse—The Yahoos Male & female turn out in
                                    mass to see the Yankees Capt Hervey of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     caval has his company under vigilant guard while in charge of the
                                    Yankees seems to be opposed to this thing of Sentinels sleeping while on Poet
                        
                        Tues May 13th Marched to Phaxtons shop by the old school House now a Shoe Shop We got
                                    wagons to day at ten A.M. 48 Prison hawled in 3 wagons drawn by Mules
                        Wed May 14th passed Thorn Hill Springs at 4 P.M. We see the
                                    Magnolia————— [?] to day in
                                    the Mounts 24 miles to day
                        May 15th Travled 22 miles over a miserable rough road country barren and desolate
                                    Civilization has not yet made way into this region Our fodder has been of the
                                    roughes cast of course corn meal without sifting made into hard bread without
                                    sale— We get some poor Mast fed Hog meat
                        May 16th 1862 Travel 30 miles today pass through a section of find country timbered
                                    by pine exclusively—
                        May 17 Leave Mr Thomas this morng early. Girls were kind to us Neices of 
                                        Mich
                                     Swope Inda We travel 16 miles and arrive at 
                                        Tuscaloosa
                                     at 4 P.M. Yankees are not so rare here but still the Buternut portion
                                    of the inhabitance have a great deal of curiosity to know where we alls
                                        come from Precocious Youths of southern shivalry go flying around town
                                    uniformed in all the variegated hues of the rainbow, like unto Josephs coat of many
                                    colours. Mr. Pea————— [?]
                        seems to be in command. We are imprisoned in a filthy 4 story garret of the old
                                    Tavern stand formerly called the U. S. Hotel. Our heart almost sink into despair
                                    while contemplating our future prospect—mid the sick and starving and
                                    dying prisoners who are already here about 50 in number and 4 or 5 nurses. Yesterday
                                    there were about a thousand prisoners sent to 
                                        Montgomery
                                        Ala
                                     The sight of iron grates in the windows continuly remind us that we
                                    prisoners of war now imprisoned in the Shot gun confederacy
                        Sunday May 18th 1862 All quiet this morning some of the boys are actually singing and
                                    whistling others gently steal a while a way from the old garret
                                    and with a stealthly step reconnoiter through some of the other moms. A prisoner
                                    dies of actual starvation in a room near us 2 or 3 die per day now.
                        Mon 19th Corn Bread & Beef to day as usual in very small quantities 5 or 6
                                    prisoners are now in Irons for attempting to run away our boys are all well yet,
                                    Capt Herveys squad went back yesterday Surgeons Young & Cary are parold for
                                    the purpose of attendg to small pox several cases have occured. Capt Robts 28th 
                                        Iowa
                                     adjt Bunt and
                        Serg Felt are————— [?] near
                                        us.4 Cap Lord Lieut Shafer & I myself are in on the
                                    2nd floor
                        Tues 20th Prisoners were removed this morning down to the old paper mill Much more
                                    comfortable quarters The Boat Demopolis comes to night at 9 1/2 We suspicion that we
                                    are under marching orders
                        Wed 21st Sure enough we are ordered to 
                                        Montgomery
                                    . Pack baggage and Hospital goods to the boat all on board at at 5 P.M.
                                    the sick were packed in close order. other prisoners were piled all around on the
                                    guards at 5 P.M. Steamer pushed out on the Black Warrior 
                              
                                 4 In the diary in pencil Ills has been written over 
                                                Iowa
                                            . There was a captain William R. Roberts of the 28th 
                                                Illinois
                                             Regiment, but he had resiened on December 31, 1861. Official Army Register of the Volunteer Force of the United
                                                States for the Years 1861, ‘62, ‘63,
                                                ‘64, ‘65 (8 vols., Washington,
                                            1866–1867), VI (1866), 257.
                           
                                     all were pleased with the idea of a change as
                                    it could not possibly be worse than in the city of Pith [?] River barely navigable
                                    because of low water. A very narrow but deep stream banks are from 30 to 50 feet
                                    high Water is frequently 70 feet higher than at present. The banks are now overhung
                                    with willow, Live oak cypress & many other trees on which the Bamboo Briar
                                    hangs it beatiful tendril vines Passed gun shoot at 9 P.M. This is a narrow defile
                                    one hundred yds in length the sides of the boat both raking the bushes we passed
                                    with an hours puttng and dragging through the bushes pass Green wood bend at seven o
                                    clock
                        May 22 now 60 miles from 
                                        Tuscaloosa
                                     by water & 28 by land. Water Turky Wild Ducks—Cranes
                                    white & gray. Snakes and aligators are seen to day in abundance. Prison fare
                                    very low to day. Arriv at the juniktion of Tombigbee river The Bigbee is some what
                                    larger than the Warrior and both together forming the Tombigbee makes a good stream
                                    for boating Here we see the beautiful Magnolia in full bloom
                        May 23rd 1862 passed out of the TomBigbee into the Alabama River
                                    this morning at 1 A.M. Distance from 
                                        Tuscaloosa
                                     by water 320 miles by Land 160 from the mouth of the Bigbee we passe
                                    down the 
                                        Alabama
                                     10 miles to 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                     we laid here from 3 A.M. till 9 A.M. This is HdQrts of the Regiment
                                    which furnished our escort from 
                                        Tuscaloosa
                                     to 
                                        Montgomery
                                    . Col. R. H. Smith. We are now within 35 miles of
                                    Mobile Yesterday evenig we met the St Nicholas, the Wm Bagely Henry King the three
                                    are lashed abreast going up the Ala. indicative that there is something Billious
                                    down about mobile
                        Sat May 24th 1862 The broad stream of Alabama River is pleasant
                                    to travel on banks are low allowing passengers to see over into Dixie frequently
                                    espying a corn patch way down in the wilderness down in Alabam cloudy to day rains
                                    this afternoon very hard— cane brake and cypress swamps swamps are now in
                                    view. Distance from Mobile to 
                                        Montgomery
                                     by water 500 miles. Selma is a beautiful town on the west banks of the 
                                        Alabama
                                     quite a large number of our prisoners here including Gen Prentice
                        Sunday 25th 62 A dark day overhea[d] but our spirits are lively prospects fair We met
                                    th southern republic this forenoon. This Dixie prid Double Decked
                                    steamer—As far as I know all are satisfied about as soon be here
                                    traveling through Dixie at her own expence as any other way or means of enjoyment.
                                    This afternoon I commenced this memorandum of items taking them Hastily. Tis now 9
                                    1/2 we are nearing the town of Selma I shall retire after we pass Selma—
                                    The Yahoos still afford amusement for the crew 3 prisoners were buried to day
                        Monday 26th We are steaming up the Proud 
                                        Alabama
                                     this forenoon a fair day— Arrive at 
                                        Montgomery
                                     at one P.M. At 3 we are marched up to the old Penitentiary Work House.
                                    Yesterday about 1000 privates were sent Home on Parole. All the commissioned are
                                    detained. We find none but’ western Prisoners here except a few from the
                                    Gunboats. All sleep on the 2nd floor
                        Tues 27 We are ordered to change prisons—for one at Chatanooga this place
                                    is to be found 300 yds from the former we are all sold on entering
                                    the filthy stinking old cotton ware House instead[d] of going  on the caras But still this is only slight
                                    disappointment again Description list is taken to day—
                        Wed 28 Here in the old 
                                        Montgomery
                                     Jail we meet prisoners from all the Western States. Commissioned
                                    & non c only We are told to day that all are to be paroled soon Sent Home by
                                    way of Savannah Men amuse themselves as best a Yankee can Manufacturing pipes Rings
                                    Rhymes & c—
                        Thu 29 Discription list was taken yesterday which indicate that they intend to parole
                                    us Soon but we cant believe anything we hear. We draw 2 days rations to day forour
                                    Trip. Now ordered to Macon 
                                        Georgia
                                    . Well tis all right; Any thing to keep up a harmony of good Spirits-
                        Fri. 30th Men begin to crow at daybreak, all are up prparing for a trip to Macon. on
                                    the cars—Leave 
                                        Montgomery
                                     at 7 A.M. at 7 P.M. we are at 
                                        Columbus
                                     Ga. Leave 
                                        Columbus
                                     at 9 travel all night arrive at Macon Ga at 7 A M
                        Sat 31st 
                                        Columbus
                                     Ga was a very pretty town of 14000 Inhabitants on the Chattahoocha
                                    River 100 milles from 
                                        Montgomery
                                    —but we find Macon a still better town we are marched out
                                    into Camp Oglethrope (Fair Ground) where we find quite a number of Noncom prisoners
                                    all in fine spirits in a very beautiful camp having the privilege of the entire camp
                                    Com. officers—128. nonco are separate from privates by cooking &
                                    sleeping only. 9 days provis issued to night.
                        Sun June 1st Tis a beautifuly clear morn All are becoming naturalized to this place.
                                    Generally thinking of staying a while now. Privates are expecting to go home next
                                    week. I hope this will be done. However we find comfort here to what we have had
                                    cars running very busy to day & night
                        Mond June 2nd Yesterday eveng we learned that they were fighting at 
                                        Richmond
                                     a thousand reports are going around every man judges as his mind
                                    dictates. Lieut Col. Adams is permitted to go out in town to make purchases for the
                                    prisoners we buy our plate cups and eatables at high rates. The chat is now that 
                                        Richmond
                                     is gone up. Spirits at low ebb. W
                                    have a few pieces of old torn up books to read—
                        Tues 3rd Nothing occurs of unusual importance to day, but a great deal of anxiety is
                                    manifested about the impending Battle
                        Wed 4 Rain Yesterday and last night the first I have seen for a Month We look for
                                    Wertz back to day—but has not come Adjt Tyner 9th 
                                        Iowa
                                     an old chum at 
                                        Brookville
                                     now makes a good companion in prison at Macon.5
                        
                        Thurs June 5 Our gallant old Kentuck contrives to get a paper of this
                                    days————— [?] which inform us
                                    of Rebel defts [defeats] East & West Just Such as was promised by our
                                    Generals 2 months ago We think the day of Retribution am close at hand. Very warm to day However but little Sickness with us yet. Mr. Vanderill
                                    Co. K. 11th 
                                        Illinois
                                     died at dusk has not been well since the Donnelson fight. Boys now have
                                    to clime trees brake the dead limbs hunt for chips to cook 
                              
                                 5 The figure 14 has been substituted in pencil for 9.
                                            Noah N. Tyner was a first lieutenant in the 14th 
                                                Iowa
                                             Regiment. Ibid., VII (1867), 269.
                           
                                     with we have been promised wood for 3 day but
                                    no—————- [wood] jet [yet] Our
                                    Rations are going short—
                        Fri. June 6th A fair day. We get no paper to day but learn that the Rebels make no
                                    report on Corinth. This indicates to us that they have gone up the
                                        spout. But thy report Stonewall Jackson to be Marching on to 
                                        Baltimore
                                     with 90000 troops 3 guns are fired in the night.
                        Sat June 7th The firing of cannon last night proved to be only only from extra
                                    rations of whisky. To day we learn that Corinth was taken By Hallock Buel
                                    &co. To night we receive new recruits from Chattanooga. They confirm the
                                    loss at corinth of 12000 Rebel Prisoners. Gen Mitchel took Chattanooga
                                    yesterday— Our chances for staying in Dixie seem fair for Commissioned
                                    officers.
                        Sun 8— A strong force of prisoners detailed on Police
                                    duty. Clean up our camp. All is clean and neat to day. Tis a beautiful Sabbath
                                    to us here notwithstanding they deny us privilege of church preaching among us. The
                                    Boys last night brought the first word I had heard from our Division since our
                                    capture. Two Ladies from the city visit our Hospital this evening. Many eyes are
                                    gazing at us over the paling fence— A calm & pleasant Evenyng The
                                    music in our prison both vocal & local has a charm for me to
                                    night— What few old worn out Books we have a[re] busily sought after.
                        Mon 9th A pleasant shower of rain this morning. Clears off by 10 AM Lieut Jackson
                                    12th 
                                        Iowa
                                     died at 10% A.M. We gain information that Beauregards army
                                    was all captured 
                                        Richmond
                                     taken at the Point of Bayonet and Stone Wall Jackson is taken prisoner
                                    good if true.
                        Tues 10. Nothing unusual to day
                        Wed 11. We find that some of the late reports prove false. but still the Rebels wear
                                    very long faces indicative of a prospective downfall of the Shot Gun
                                    confederacy—
                        Thur 12— Several deaths have occured in Our Hospital this week and several
                                    more will die soon Gen Mitchel has perhaps left. Chattanooga but we do not know why
                        Frid 13 Weather cool especialy at night Sea breezes causing a chilling sensation to
                                    the system unusual with us in the North two more prisoners dies to day—
                        Macon 
                                        Georgia
                                     Sat June 14th 1862 We learn from good authority that Charles. Savannah
                                    & Ft. Sumpter are now in possession of Federals Lieut Shrffer & I
                                    cooked to day.
                        Sun 15. A clear and pleasant day. There are corpses in the Hospital to day. We hear
                                    that the 500 prisoners rejected by Gen Mitchel will return to this prison Boys begin
                                    to studdg the Geography of this Confederacy
                        Mon 16. Rains some to day— We draw 7 days rations of stinking meat
                                    & Flour rice & one days ration of Mollasses. Lieut Maize 6th 
                                        Kentucky
                                     U.S.V.I. takes a fence furlow to night. Bully for Kentuck
                        Tues 17. Some sprinkling of rain to day very cool We learn that the prisoners that
                                    were paroled are to return here tomorrow. Lieuts Geyher, Agey & 6 or 8
                                    others make their escape to day some go tonight Moss & C fails.
                        Wed 18 To day has [been] one of General sport and high spirits  Noon reported absent yet our Yankee tricks Work well.
                                    500 prisoners return this evening. I have engaged in the Bone trade. have 25 cts
                                    invested in Stock.
                        Thn 19. Our Prison is crowded by the additional 500 prisoners but we Manage to crowd
                                    throug time and tide Todays paper contains discriptive lists of prisoners escaped
                                    from the prison $100 per man is offered for Officers.
                        Fri 20 This morning adjutant Tyner reports the absentees. we are all threatened by
                                    close confinement We are told by the Baker that all privates will leave here next
                                    Monday. he is baking crackers for them. We hope tis true
                        Sat 21 All is quiet to day as usual we begin to believe the privates can be released
                        Sunday June 22 This is truly a delightful morning— Yesterday eveng the
                                    Quartermaster brought in 200 Shirts to be distributed to the Ragged assed of
                                    Prisoners This morning they all turn out to hear the Rebel preacher or Chaplain who
                                    preaches to the prisoners but does not allow our own Chaplain to preach Mortality is
                                    now about 9 men per week dying in the Hospital.
                        Mon 23 Nothing unusual occurs to day. Weather dry—
                        Tues 24 Quite a funny Joke was exposed this morning 50 consts rammoused & Ten
                                    Artilery men left for parts unknown Supposed to be on a ticket furlough—
                                    Bully for Dixie
                        Wed 25 Last night 10 Artilery Soldiers absquatulated last night—Judge Meek
                                    of Ala visits our camp to day— four of Co. E are complaining of fever to
                                    day About two P.M. two Lieuts of the 
                                        Ill
                                     19th arrive direct from Chattanooga We hear from the gallant 8th
                                    Brigade—It is now proposed to send a deputation to Washington
                                    Representing to our Govnt the true condition of the Federal prisoners now at Macon
                                    Ga.
                        Thurs 26 Three men dies to day at Hospital— C. Rallard of co. E 37 Ind
                                    goes in today though very reluctantly. we all lend as much assistance as possible
                                    for their comfort Lieut Ford went out last night is caught to day by
                                    Rloodhounds— his friends fail to meet him— Corp Pike is
                                    studdying the map. He has been very sick but is now able to walk about some.
                        Fri 27 Corp Pike & several others ceceded from this instiution last night,
                                    they only ask to be let alone. Mortality here is hecoming alarming. Fred Beck is
                                    sick with chills & fever.
                        Sat 28 Very warm this forenoon. We hear that they are fighting at 
                                        Richmond
                                     that Beaureguards & Hallecks army have gone to 
                                        Richmond
                                     A meeting of the Prisoners was held in Officers Quarters for the
                                    purpose of Electng or appointng commissioners to go ta Washington &
                                    intercede parole exchge or
                                    some—————- [alleviation?] of
                                    our suffering here by sending money. Medicine &c for Hospital use &
                                    clothing for all the important medicins in Confederate stores having entirely
                                    exhausted, our men enter the Hospital to starve suffer & die. Said meeting
                                    appointed a deputation of five officers to petion to
                                    —————-[?]
                        Sund 29th Rained yesterday afternoon and continued last night & no less than
                                    fifteen prisoners escaped through th gaard line while  raining Sentinels calling for the corporal at all hours
                                    of the night "Corp of the guard Post No 8" "Corp Gaard Po
                                    no 16." "Corp gd Po No 12. double quick-run-Yankees running out
                                    over my line——–" Another Sentinel cries
                                    out "Let em go'! dam it. The wars over any how."
                                    "Corp gaard Post No 19—’ Yankees running out here
                                    like sheep." Why dont you shoot? My dambd old gun wont go off." We
                                    are greatly amused by this kind of confab among the Sentinels Lieuts Ford was
                                    brought in last night in chains Lieut Randolph still in chains—Another
                                    meeting was held to day to close the business of Yesterday meeting on commissioners
                                    rehearing & reelection &c
                        Mon 30 We now learn that 
                                        Richmond
                                     is still the Seat of the Rebel Amy Boregard entire force has
                                    concentrated here for one last decisive struggle. They are now fighting. Current
                                    report here that Gen Mclellan and 9000 men taken prisoner. 
                                        Ill
                                     bet thats a lie. We are all brought into line and counted Mustered in
                                    good order. Not mustered for pay but for Corn Meal & Rotten meat—
                                    We hope Uncle Sam will be able to muster us soon at enemy Muster if not at Meal
                                    Muster We expect G. Bendel to die to night. He talked of Death as no terror
                                    today—
                        Tues July 1st We draw 7 days rations to day—rains to day we have nothing
                                    to eat for breakfast & dinner—out of wood also George D Bendel
                                    Co. E. 4th O.V.C. died at 7 P.M. A hard storm to night about 20 are ragged in
                                    Butternut attire. Spect they require to cecede to night, all right rains some the
                                    poor corp is kept on the trot looking foty [forty] ways for Sunday Sentinels all
                                    scared to death. The Yankies begin to leak out at Dusk. Sentinels all doubled and
                                    thrippled all instructed to shoot without halting any one coming within Six paces of
                                    thier line The result in the morning is found that the Corporal of Guard was Shot by
                                    a Sentinel supposing him to be a Yankie. This is
                        Wed 2 before breakfast. I have just written what occured last night &
                                    yesterday. I am afraid some of Co. E will cecede some of these dark
                                    nights— I dont like the Idea of running a gauntlet of 4000
                                    miles—I have possession of a 
                                        Georgia
                                     Gazetheer from Lieut Moss. Report from 
                                        Richmond
                                     is that McClellan is Driven back with great loss his army demoralized.
                                    The expect him to capitulate Soon. As usual this make the guards saucy toward us.
                                    The guard is more strick in vigilance some of them swearing they must kill a Yankee
                                    before this war closes. All is quiet as usual among us but at Dusk a Sentinel Shot
                                    the old French man a harmless & innofensive man. Was standing 60 feet from
                                    the line ball entering passing through his body through the Barracks of men tearing
                                    the Coat of another private.
                        Thur 3 Many Doubts as to what McClelan is doing but at night we are told that Mc
                                    asked for an Armistice of 4 days to bury the dead but Gen Lee answers "No let the dead bury the dead." but our secret opinion is
                                    that Gen McClellan will make fourth of July celebration in 
                                        Richmond
                                     to morrow Postage has been raised from 5 cta to 10 pr letter This
                                    speaks well for Southern Independence
                        July 4th 1862 Here we are still in Macon Prison a dark cloudy morning. Men from all
                                    states of the old Union from 
                                        Maine
                                     to 
                                        Florida
                                     and back to 
                                        Wisconsin
                                     all say they never knew the temperature so cool all wear coats Col R.
                                    H. Smith was buried to day in Macon Flags are waiving at half-mast, through the
                                    town— Not a word of new is heard  to
                                    day— The only way of celebrating the glorious old 4th is profound
                                    & silent meditation we are told this evening that the fight so far at 
                                        Richmond
                                     closed as a drawn Battle Capt Clay Crawford of our Mess was brought to
                                    camp to day in chains He had made his escape a week ago from here was retaken in
                                    Northern Ala near our lines. He with four other are confined in tents at Guard Post
                                    Many of the boys have made fine specimens of Bone work of these they will make
                                    presents to ther Patriotic friends at Horn— twas cool & cloudy
                                    all day here seemingly as a frown from Heaven.
                        Sat July 5 The morning news is that Mclenllen had surrend His entire Army of 300000
                                    men to Jeff & Gen Lee—Understand this is the latest despatch by
                                    the Grape vine Telegraph on the Surrender of Gen McC Gen Lee marched direct to
                                    Washington—————- [?] Abe
                                    Lincoln & cabinet fled from Halls in disguise Mrs Lincoln in escaping from
                                    the the White House caught her dress upon a nail and tore it most
                                    Shamefully— The confederate congress was for the present to sit at
                                    Antioch untill some of the Yankee calvry in the west could be captured Turns warmer
                                    today—Lieut Geyher was captured and brought into camp to day we carry
                                    their victuals to them but not allowed to speak—fortfying 
                                        Atlanta
                                     now
                        Sunday July 6 Another bright Sabbath morn and yet at Macon Prison we are told that
                                    our Army is routed and in a very humiliating condition Guard are insulting to us
                                    This evening a Cecesh captain calls for Capt Crabb for whom he has been exchanged of
                                    course the capt is willing to accept Our men are writing letters to be inspected by
                                    the Maj & not rejected carried to over lines by capt Crabb. I write to P
                                        Jones6 & Lieuts Holman & Burk—we
                                    learn that congress is discussing 
                              
                                 6 Reverend P. Jones received the letter, and it was
                                            published possibly in a 
                                                Decatur County
                                             newspaper with the caption $he 37th Indiana
                                            Prisoners." It is here reproduced as it appeared in the
                                            unidentified newspaper clipping. 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                                            
                                                Macon Ga.
                                             
                                                            July 6th 1862.
                                                        
                                          Rev. P. Jones, and other friends in 
                                                            Decatur
                                                             Co. Indiana:
                                          Many of our friends are anxious, no doubt, to know the fate
                                                            of Co. E 37th Ind. Vols. With grateful feelings, I embrace
                                                            this oportunity to give the names of all who were captured
                                                            at the battle of Elk River on May 9th 1862. Capt Connett
                                                            perhaps is within our lines, or, perchance at home. But I
                                                            will state that Capt. Connett, O. M. Garret, A. O. Scull, H.
                                                            Creed, Jas. A. Hager and John T. Wolverton, were wounded and
                                                            left at Courtland Hospital, on parole. Those of our Co. now
                                                            imprisoned at Macon Ga. are 1st Lieut. Frank Hughes, Sergts.
                                                            W. B. Harvey, T. B. Peery and G. W. Hungate, Corps. J. W.
                                                            Gully, W. N. Barnes, M. M. Wilson, and Joshua Barton and
                                                            Privates F Beck, C. Ballard, M. Brooks, L. C. Brooks, N. A.
                                                            Butler, W. E. Clark, T. H. Carter, Ed. Coleman, Jas. Cox, A.
                                                            Eusminger, G. H. Ewbanks, Add. Hughes, J. T. Johnson, A.
                                                            Knapp, Wm. McKeon, B. McNeely, J. C. McKee, J. W. Mauarry,
                                                            D. Price, Will. Ritchy, Wm. Stopper, B. R. Smith, J. B.
                                                            Stogsdill, Thos. Trois, W. H. Thompson, Sam'l Wells
                                                            and T. J. Wood. Capt. H. E. Lord and Lieutenant Shaffer of
                                                            Co. G are also with us. Six 4th 
                                                            Ohio
                                                             Cavalry were taken with us, but one of them
                                                            died here a week ago of fever. No other serious cases of
                                                            sickness have yet occurred in our company, and we are in as
                                                            good health, and fine spirit as we might wish; or, at least,
                                                            expect to be.
                                          
                                                            Yours Ob'tly,
                                                            Lieut. FRANK HUGHES
                                                        
                                       
                                    
                                 
                                        
                           
                                     the propriety of a general exchange after the
                                    fight at 
                                        Richmond
                                    —
                        Mon 7th All are up early preparing letters to send home hut doubting whether they
                                    will be permitted to pass their lines Capt Crahb bids us GoodBye at 8 1/2 A.M. May
                                    heaven smile upon his latter days he has been sick through 7 months captivity in
                                    Dixie. Tis very warm to day This eving a train loaded With Soldeirs of Inftry and
                                    one Battery of six guns are seen going out on the Chattanooga R.R. Mustered again to
                                    day for our Corn Meal & stinking meat—5 or 6 officers are now
                                    seated around on their bunks searching eagerly in the seams of their unmentionables
                                    for something they dont want to find
                        Tues 8 quite a number of the prisoners now have the scurvey My mouth is very sore I
                                    have headache This afternoon the corn Officers are ordered to prepare 1 days Rations
                                    we bak biscuit this eveng weather fair spirits in doubtful thought
                        Wed 9th 1862 Some anticipating exchange This day two months ago we were taken
                                    prisoners & this day we commissioned Off. take leave of Private &
                                    —————- [?] Men at 9 we march
                                    to the Depot. bound for 
                                        Madison
                                     Ga where we will be confined more closely no doubt We take the
                                    Chattanooga train arrive at C. at 4 P.M. quite a pleasant looking town we stay at
                                    the Depot till 8 then start for 
                                        Madison
                                    —riding in cattle carrs dirty & filthy no seats
                                    arrive at Ma at 12. walk 1/2 mile to the prison Halted kept standing in line an hour
                                    counted 3 times finaly turned into the 
                                        Madison
                                     steam Mill—slept on the 2nd floor till next morning not
                                    knowing how many or who is here—had plent[y] of nothing to eat
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Jacob Hull's Detachment of the Potawatomi Emigration of 1838
            Edited by Dwight L. Smith*
            
            The circumstances surrounding the removal of a great part of the Potawatomi Indians from Indiana in
                    1838 caused much hardship and suffering among them.1 At the outset there were
                    those who because of sickness were unable to accompany the emigration. During the first two weeks of
                    the trek westward several were sent back to 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, to recuperate and to await a future emigration.2
            
            Captain Jacob Hull, who had been appointed assistant conductor of the Potawatomi emigration of 1838
                    to succeed Luther Rice, was placed in charge of the small detachment that remained in 
                        Logansport
                    , the numbers of which were soon augmented by stragglers from the main emigrating
                        party.3 About three weeks after the main emigrating party left, Hull started
                    from 
                        Logansport
                     with a party of thirty-two Indians, a clerk, an interpreter, and two wagoners.
            From 
                        Logansport
                     the party followed the Wabash River southwestwardly. In 
                        Fountain County
                    , near 
                        Covington
                    , they turned westward towards 
                  Danville,
                            Vermilion County, Illinois
               . The Salt Fork marked their route to the vicinity of Sidney
                    in 
                        Champaign
                     County. From there Hull's detachment proceeded westwardly to the Sangamon
                    River and followed it to the vicinity of 
                        Springfield
                     in Sangamon County. The Illinois River was probably crossed almost
                    directly west of 
                  
                     * Dwight L. Smith is an instructor in history at The 
                                Ohio
                             State University, 
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     .
                  
                     1 "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians,
                            1838," Indium Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905;), XXI (1925), 315–336, passim.
                            Irving McKee (ed.1, "The Trail of Death, Letters of Benjamin Marie Petit,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895-), XIV (1944), 3–141, passim.
                  
                     2 Entries for Setember 4, 5, 10, and 16, 1838, in "Journal of
                            an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians, 1838," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, XXI, 317, 318–319, and 320.
                  
                     3 Abel C. Pepper to William Polke, "Forks Wabash,"
                            September 15, 1838, in Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "A Continuation of the Journal of an
                            Emigrating Part of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscrits," ibid., XLIV (1948), 401–402. Pepper to Carey A. Harris, Forfs
                            of the 
                                Wabash
                            , September 15, 1838, in Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1942), III, 707–708. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the
                            Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-). John Tipton to Harris, Camp Logan, September 10, 1838, in Ibid., III, 698–699.
               
                    
                    
                        Jacksonville
                     and the crossing of the Mississippi River was affected probably
                    somewhere between 
                  Quincy, Illinois
               , and Hannibal, 
                        Missouri
                    . From there, the trek across 
                        Missouri
                     is not related in enough detail to indicate the route followed except that it was in a
                    westward direction. The size of the party permitted good progress to be made, and it was able to
                    travel an approximate average distance of seventeen and one-half miles a day. By the latter part of
                    October, Hull's group had joined the main body under William Polke in northeastern 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Hull kept a journal during the emigration from 
                        Logansport
                     to northeastern 
                        Kansas
                    . It is here reproduced from the original manuscript in Hull's handwriting by
                    the kind permission of Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely of 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana. A white line drawn through a word (being) indicates that it has been crossed
                    out in the original manuscript.
            "Journal of an Emigration of a detachment of Indians belonging to the Indian Emigration
                    under the Charge of Jacob Hull."
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 27th 1838 Left 
                                        Logansport
                                     with Ira A. Fisk, Clerk, Edward McCartney,4
                                    Interpreter, Peter Dunkle with 2 Teams, and Moses Ram with One, and thirty two
                                    Individuals of the Pottowotomy Nation and 12 Ponys5
                        
                        Proceeded 16 Miles Encampd at Mr Granthus
                        28th proceeded 21 Miles Encampd at Daviss Ferry Near 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     Battle Ground
                        Kat- tice with her husband and five Children and 5 Ponys left the Emigration being
                                    unwell and Could not travel as fast as the waggons I supposed they were in Company
                                    with those who were riding and didnot [sic] Miss them untill we
                                    arrived near the Camp6
                        
                        29th Went back with Mr McCartney ten Miles and discovered they had taken up the
                                        Tippecanoe River the Cause of their leaving I 
                              
                                 4 Edward McCartney was an Indian trader whose
                                            activities were largely along the 
                                                Wabash
                                             and Eel rivers in central Indiana. Apparently he had two
                                            Potawatomi wives and was very well liked in Potawatomi circles. Robertson
                                            and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, I, 393, note 13, and
                                            445, note 69.
                              
                                 5
                                            
                                                Tipton
                                             to Chauncy Carter, 
                                                Logansport
                                            , September 27, 1838, in ibid., III, 731.
                                            Hull's muster roll is contained in a letter to Polke, Little
                                                Blue River Encampment, October 30, 1838, in Smith,
                                            "A Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi
                                            Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscripts," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV, 407.
                              
                                 6 Ira A. Fisk to 
                                                Tipton
                                            , "In Camp Near the Battle ground," September
                                            29, 1838, in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers,
                                            III, 735.
                           
                                     have reason to believe was through the
                                    Perswasion of Joseph Baron7 the Interpreter—we
                                    returnd to Camp and Proceeded 10 Miles, 5 Miles west of 
                                        Lafayette
                                    .
                        30th Proceeded 23 Miles Encampd Near 
                                        Williamsport
                                    
                        
                        Oct 1st Traveled 19 Ms this Morning Pok-Ka-gos8 and his Brother
                                    left the Emigration this Loss was much regreted as they were excellent hunters and
                                    appeard anxious to go West they were the Sons of Katticeg9
                        
                        2nd Arrived at danville [
                                        Illinois
                                    ,] being being 10 miles Travel Let the Indians Wash
                        3rd Travelled 22 Miles Encampd within five miles of Sidney
                        4th Proceeded 23 Miles to Sadarus [Sadorus] Grove
                        Oct 5th Travelled 15 Ms Encampd on account of water Encampd near the Sangamaw
                                    [Sangamon] River
                        6th Travelled 27 Miles Encampd 2 Miles west of 
                                        Decatur
                                    
                        
                        7th Travelled 16 Ms Encampd Near the Sangamaw River
                        8th Proceeded 23 Ms Encampd 2 Ms West of 
                                        Springfield
                                    
                        
                        9th Travelled 14 Ms to Berlin
                        10th Encampd Preceded 25 Ms 6 of Ms West of 
                                        Jacksonville
                                    
                        
                        11th Proceeded 19 Ms Crossd and encampd on the Bank of the Illinois
                                    River
                        
                        12th Travelled 18 Miles
                        13th Travelled 27 do
                        14th Travelled 10 Miles and Encampd Crossd the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    
                        
                        15th Lay by to let the Indians wash River
                        16th Lost 7 Ponys found 2 & proceeded 6 Miles
                        17th a heavy fall of Snow & rain lay by
                        18th hired Sent Back a Man to assist in hunting the Ponys Proceeded 10 Ms at Night
                                    they Came in with all except one which belongd to the wife of Pok-ka-gos. Worth
                                    about $25—
                        19th Traveled 10 Ms. Topia-Na-bia being too Sick to travel farther
                        20th Traveled 11 Ms to Encamp there being no water within a reasonable distance
                        21st Traveled 22 Miles Encampd on Crooked Creek [
                                        Missouri
                                    ]
                        22nd Traviled 27 Miles Encampd 6 Miles West of 
                                        Paris
                                    
                        
                        23rd Proceeded 21 Ms Encampd 2 Miles East of Huntsville
                        24th Proceeded 13 Miles
                        25th Traveled 18 Miles
                        26th Proceeded 16 Ms Encampd 7 Ms West of Grand River
                        
                        27th Proceeded 20 Ms Encampd in a grove in a Peraira
                        28th Traveled 22 Ms Encampd 1% Ms South of the Missourri R
                        
                           
                              7See Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "The Attempted
                                        Potawatomi Edgration of 1839," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, XLV (1949), 63, note 29.
                           
                              8 Pok-ka-qos. Hull to Polke, Little Blue
                                        River Encampment, October 30, 1838, in Smith, "A
                                        Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi Indians, 1838,
                                        and Ten William Polke Manuscripts," ibid., XLIV, 407.
                           
                              9 Henry W. Tilley to 
                                 Tipton, Danville, Illinois
                              , October 2, 1838, in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, III, 740–741.
                        
                        
                        29th Traveled 18 Ms Came up With the emigration10
                        
                        30th Traveled 14 Ma Encampd on Blue river & Reported11
                        
                        The distances set down in the journal was such as we heard from individuals who could
                                    not in every instance be relyed upon
                        [Endorsed] Jounal Jacob Hul Emigratg
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  10 "About 5 o'clock Capt. Hull arrived in camp with the
                        Indians left at 
                            Logansport
                         and 
                            Tippecanoe
                        , numbering in all some twenty-three. They are [in] tolerably good health and
                        spirits and will perhaps accomplish the remainder of the journey in the company of our
                        party." Entry for October 29, 1838, in "Journal of an Emigrating Party of
                        Pottawattomie Indians, 1838," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 333.
               
                  11 "They will be attached to the emigration under the charge of
                        Judge Polke to-morrow." Entry for October 30, 1838, in ibid., XXI,
                        333.
            
         
         
         
            "Early History of Indiana"
            Contributed by Jane Rodman*
            
            The following article entitled "Early History of Indiana" appeared in the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Telegraph, August 7, 1841; it was probably written by editor John B. Dillon as an
                    advance blurb for a historical project upon which he was then engaged. The title "Early
                    Days in Indiana" was elaborated in 1843 by historian Dillon, a "citizen of
                    Indiana," into The History of Indiana, from its Earliest Exploration by
                        Europeans, to the Close of the Territorial Government in 1816: With un Introduction containing
                        Historical Notes of the Discovery and Settlement of the Territory of the United States Northwest
                        of the River Ohio
               .
            John B. Dillon,1 sometimes called "the father of Indiana
                    history," was born in 
                  Wellsburg, Virginia
                (now West 
                        Virginia
                    ) in 1807 or 1808. Orphaned at an early age, he learned the printing trade and for some
                    time worked for the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette. In 1834, he became editor of the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Canal Telegraph (the name was shortened in 1836) and remained with that newspaper
                    until 1842. From 1845 to 1851, Dillon was state librarian; from 1863 to 1875 he lived in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. He died in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , February 27, 1879.
            
               The History of Indiana was the product of twenty-five years of "untiring
                    research." Another Indiana historian described the author's historical method as
                    follows: "He dealt with documents without appealing to the imagination. He did not make it
                    his business to comment, to estimate, to eulogize, or detract, but he sought ‘a plain
                    unvarnished tale,’ to collect and relate the facts, truly and fairly. … This
                    was Dillon's idea of historical writing; he dealt with facts, not with
                        dressing."2 Dillon and his contemporary historians left historical
                    records, both social and political, which are 
                  
                     * Jane Rodman is an historical researcher employed by the
                            American Life Convention, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     1 For recent brief biographies see Richard E. Banta,
                            "Indiana's Amateur Historians," Indiana Magazine of
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XLIV (1948), 269–262; and Richard E. Banta (ed.),
                                Indiana Authors and Their Books 1816–1916 (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, 1949), 88–89.
                  
                     2 James Albert Woodbun, "The Indiana Historical Society, A
                            Hundred Years," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895-), X (1930), 11.
               
                     indispensable to those people of a century later who desire to
                    "learn every thing" about the early history of the state.
            The article on the importance of history was reprinted in the Western Sun and General
                        Advertiser, August 28, 1841, with this introduction: "We invite attention to the
                    following article. The work spoken of will be from the pen of a gentleman every way qualified for
                    the arduous task:" 
                        EARLY HISTORY OF INDIANA
                        A citizen of Indiana is engaged in the task of preparing for the press a historical work,
                            entitled "Early Days in Indiana,"—The time over which the work
                            is designed to extend includes a period of nearly one hundred and twenty
                            years—beginning with the early settlements of the French in the valley of the 
                                Wabash
                            , and ending with the conclusion of the Territorial Government of Indiana. The
                            nature of the task demands much time and untiring research; and when completed, it will not
                            form, of itself, a complete history, but "it will furnish to the future historian,
                            the materials upon which he may work, and without which (or a similar collection) all his
                            efforts and his talents will be spent in vain."
                        The toil and the perplexity which must be endured in collecting facts, have often
                            disheartened historians in the path of their duties. "Those" says the
                            learned D'Israeli, "who have grasped at early celebrity, have too often
                            been satisfied if they give a NEW FORM to History, without having contributed any thing new
                            to the MATTER." It is recorded that when Pere Daniel undertook a history of France,
                            the King's Librarian opened for his inspection an immense treasure of charters, and
                            another of Royal autograph letters and another of private
                            correspondence—treasures reposing in fourteen hundred folios! The historian
                            passed two hours impatiently looking over them. He became frightened at the mass before him,
                            and very civilly told the Librarian that he could "write a very READABLE history
                            without the aid of the old paper rubbish." He wrote a history of France,
                            remarkable, principally, for the many blunders which it contains. A similar circumstance has
                            been told of a modern historian, who, on receiving a volume of old manuscript letters said,
                            that "what was already printed, was more than he was able to read."
                        As the state grows older, and the arts and sciences advance, its early history will attain a
                            high degree of interest. The people who, in a century from this time, shall look back upon
                            the period in which we now live, will be anxious to learn every thing relating to the
                            physical character of the state—the manners and customs of the
                            citizens—the state of morals, and the political principles which govern the mass
                            of the people in the present day. A learned author has said that time will make the present
                            age as obsolete as the last. "Those who come after us will cast a new light over
                            the ambiguous scenes which are now around us. They will know how some things happened, for
                            which we cannot account. They will bear witness to how many characters we have mistaken.
                            They will be told many of the secrets which our cotemporaries [sic] hide
                            from us. They will read the perfect story of  man, which
                            can never be told while it is proceeding. All this is the possession of posterity because
                            they will judge without our passions and without our prejudice.
                        If our history is to be regarded with feelings of interest, by those who are to come after
                            us, shall we not value the history of those who have gone before us? The manners and
                            customs, and the toils and dangers that marked the character, and attended the pursuits of
                            the pioneers of Indiana, are passing away, if they have not already vanished, and those who
                            now wish to share in the excitement and danger of a frontier life, must travel far towards
                            the setting sun.
                        Many interesting facts, connected with the early settlement of Indiana, have been perverted,
                            or lost for ever, because they were never recorded, and the stream of tradition seldom bears
                            to the present, faithfully, the history of the past.
                    
                
         
         
         
            History of Indiana in World War II
            Indiana War History Commission
            The first volume of Indiana in World War II will consist of a series of Honor Rolls
                    for each county in Indiana. The booklets will contain the names of all Hoosiers in the military
                    forces whose deaths occurred between November 18, 1940, and January 31, 1946. There will be a brief
                    paragraph of information of the deceased, including names of parents or next-of-kin, time and place
                    of birth, residence, military history, decorations, place and circumstances of death, and place of
                    burial for each individual so far as it could be obtained. Since the booklets will vary in size, the
                    price will range from twenty-five cents upwards. To date two Honor Rolls have been
                        published—Gold Star Honor Roll, 
                            Adams County
                        
               , thirty cents; and Gold Star Honor Roll, 
                            Whitley County
                        
               , twenty-five cents.
            
               Letters from Fighting Hoosiers, the second volume of Indiana in World
                        War IZ, which contains 405 pages and sells for five dollars, has just been published. The
                    letters reproduced in this work "attempt to convey how the war looked and sounded, how it
                    smelled and felt, to a representative number of Hoosiers." A review of the book will appear
                    in the Indiana Magazine of History in the near future.
            Copies of the booklets and the Letters from Fighting Hoosiers may be purchased from
                    the
            Indiana War History Commission
            Indiana University
            
               
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana
             (Make checks payable to J. A. Franklin, Fiscal Agent for Indiana War History Fund.)
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Authors and Their Books, 1816–1916: Biographical Sketches of
                        Authors Who Published during the First Century of Indiana Statehood with Lists of Their
                    Books. Compiled by R. E. Banta. (
                  Crawfordsville, Wabash
               
                    College, 1949, pp. xvii, 352.)
            When a group of editors begin such a task as is represented in Indiana Authors and Their
                        Books, they must, if they would perserve their sanity, decide early on the intent of the
                    work. Is it to satisfy an immediate or a distant need? If the former, though the labor still remains
                    stupendous, some difficulties are at once eliminated. The compilers absolve themselves of long,
                    detailed research on individual authors, forego critical evaluation, and concentrate on identifying
                    writers with a place, on sifting biographical materials for facts, and on selecting and putting
                    these facts in order. The editors of Indiana Authors make but slight claim to
                    originality and none to completeness. They frankly say that what they do is a
                    start, that what they provide is but the encloser of things to be. They might claim that here in
                    embryo are critical studies of the future. As they are aware, they have missed some names and titles
                    which will gradually be added. I think, for instance, of Charles O. Thompson, who left in pamphlet
                    form his inaugural address The Modern Polytechnic School at his induction as
                    president of the Rose Polytechnic Institute on March 9, 1883. There are others: John P. Pettit, Restoration of the 
                            Missouri
                         Compromise, a speech delivered in the national House of Representatives and
                    published in 
                        Washington
                     in 1856; Annie Thompson, Simplicity Unveiled, a book of poems, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1880; Addison Coffin, a 
                        Quaker
                     of Hendricks County, who did a work, I believe, on his visit to the Holy Land, and
                    Ambrose Bierce, educated in the 
                        Elkhart
                     schools and remembered for his hair-raising tales, for his services as a soldier in the
                    Civil War, and for his sudden, mysterious disappearance. To the bibliography of Robert Dale Owen may
                    be added Darby and Susan: a Tale of 
                            New England
                        
               , 
                        London
                    , 1839, and Promisso's Experience, 1839; to that of Daniel W.
                    Vorhees, The Farragut Statute, Washington, 1881.
            The values of Indiana Authors can hardly be estimated. The most obvious is the
                    factual knowledge given of more than nine hundred writers who have been associated with Indiana  life and thought. This value is not to be minimized. Ask any
                    grade or high-school teacher, any member of a literary club, any librarian. Names of authors are set
                    out for him here in alphabetical order without regard to essential worth. Edward Danville Wright and
                    the Bard of 
                        Alamo
                     have their niches just as do the internationally known poet, editor, and literary
                    historian William Vaughn Moody and the critic of Elizabethan poetry Felix Schelling. Perhaps a fault
                    of the work is that in a few instances performers occupy space out of proportion to their
                    achievement. With the name is information about the relationship of the author to the
                    state—whether he is native or adopted, some account of his life, and a list of his
                    publications.
            Another value of the book lies in the sheer interest stimulated by bits of surprising information
                    appearing in the biographies—some of it serious, some light. How many of us Hoosiers have
                    known, for instance, that Dr. John Shaw Billings was one of our products? that the creator of Elsie
                    Dins-more was educated in the state? that we have sent out a dozen historians to achieve national
                    and international reputations with their research? that we supplied some capable militant leaders to
                    the Woman's Rights Movement? that Hoosier Mosaics, by Maurice Thompson,
                    is a set of fascinating stories with settings in 
                        Kokomo
                    , Colfax, Jamestown, and other cities and villages which we are not accustomed to think
                    of as hubs of fictional plots? that Robert Louis Stevenson had a stepdaughter who is listed as an
                    Indiana writer? Other gems may be uncovered. John McGovern, Hoosier, appeared as a literary expert
                    in the plagiarism case of S. E. Gross against Edmund Rostand concerning Cyrano de
                        Bergerac and helped the plaintiff to win. From our borders went Charles Denby to supply a
                    name for a one-time five-cent cigar. And one thumbing through the book pauses at the possibilities
                    afforded by the inaugural addresses of presidents of Indiana colleges; for the fact that Joseph
                    Tuttle, as he was taking over at 
                        Wabash
                     in 1862, attacked Carlyle's Heroes and Hero Worship,
                    suggests that in these speeches live coals linger which, by some researcher, may be blown to flame.
            There is bibliographical value, too, in the work. Items of all sorts attract the curious and alert
                    eye. One is aware of the inception here of bibliographies on Hoosier journalism, schools and
                    education, government, the state's response to  the
                    Civil War, art, wild life, secret orders, county history, state history, state parks, rivers and
                    other geological phenomena, and religious life. The importance of the last to Indianians of the
                    century is attested by the number of clerical writers. Of the first 142 entries almost twenty per
                    cent are concerned with church or creed or interpretation of the Scriptures. And the Mormons must
                    have been aware of Hoosier literary lashings long after they had passed the state on their trek
                    west.
            Perhaps the chief value of Indiana Authors rests in its latent possibilities. The
                    promise of the book begins already to be fulfilled, for James Whitcomb Riley and for George Ade
                    excellent bibliographies have been prepared, and for the former a critical biography is announced in
                    the series of studies which includes the names of Hawthorne and Thoreau. The book in front of us is
                    a mine from which additional rich ore will come—perhaps, at length, a cultural history of
                    the state. And the work so ably done by Mr. J. K. Lilly, Jr., Mr. R. E. Banta, and others will
                    surely be a stimulus to other states to examine and publish accounts of their literary resources.
            
               Indiana University Frank Davidson
         
         
            
               The 
                            Vincennes
                         Donation Lands. By Leonard Lux, O.S.B. Volume XV, Number 4, Indiana Historical
                    Society Publications. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Society, 1949, pp. 421–497. Index, appendix, and pocket
                    map. $1.00.)
            The landholdings of the French and of the early American frontiersmen in and about 
                        Vincennes
                     were in a state of confusion for many years. Although the territorial and land-office
                    officials brought order to the titles, an adequate study has not previously made the subject clear
                    for students of history. This pamphlet does present an orderly account of the subject.
            The French had been careless about their land titles and generous about making grants to Americans
                    who came to live among them. Congress, however, in response to their petitions adopted an act in
                    1791 which promised four hundred acres of land to heads of families who were residents in 1783 and
                    to such persons who had received grants from the various 
                    commandants and who had given evidence by making improvements that they considered the donation to
                    have been bona fide. One hundred acres were to be given to each militia man of 1790 if he had not
                    received another allotment.
            Winthrop Sargent, Secretary of the Northwest Territory, investigated the claims at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1790–2791 and in 1797–1798. He confirmed many of the claims
                    and these were surveyed, but the government did not issue patents of title. When the land office was
                    established at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804, it became the duty of the officials to complete the investigation of claims.
                    They made two reports in 1806 which completed their work. The land of the later confirmations was
                    then surveyed and patents issued for all grants approved.
            Most of the land had passed into American ownership by the time the investigations were complete.
                    This included 313 of 415 tracts given by French and British governors, 242 of 264 of the 400
                    acre-donation tracts, and 201 of 235 militia grants. Francis Vigo bought 101 of the 400 acre tracts.
            The author erred when he wrote that Governor Hamilton sent Lieutenant-Governor Edward Abbott to 
                        Vincennes
                     (p. 435). Both men were lieutenant-governors and both were sent to their posts by the
                    home government.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The Territory of 
                            Illinois
                        , 1809–1814. Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. The Territorial Papers of the United States, Volume XVI. (Washington, United
                    States Government Printing Office, 1948, pp. xi, 506. Index. $3.25.)
            This book, as well as the others in the series, is of interest to two kinds of readers: the historian
                    who is studying the territorial period of the Old Northwest, and the layman who is looking for
                    entertainment and incidental information about how his ancestors lived. It is the first of two
                    volumes of the papers of the Territory of 
                        Illinois
                    . Chronologically, the documents cover the years from the separation of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana territories in 1809 to the end of Governor Ninian Edwards second term in
                    1814. Geographically, they are concerned with the vast area which is now the states of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a part of 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            
            Most of the documents are from the files of various bureaus and offices of the Departments of State,
                    War, and Treasury, and of the House and Senate, and now in the National Archives. To these are added
                    some documents from 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     depositories. As in the other volumes of this series, documents are arranged
                    chronologically and the location of the original is clearly indicated. All persons mentioned are
                    properly identified, and the index is adequate. As Dr. Carter points out in his introduction, one
                    cannot read the entire territorial history of 
                        Illinois
                     from this book (and from the forthcoming second volume). The material here given must
                    be suppleinented by documents in other volumes of the Territorial Papers, in the
                    historical collections of the states, and elsewhere.
            In spite of its limitations, however, this is readily available source material that illuminates many
                    aspects of the earlier history of the Middle West: the settlement of land claims of former French
                    and British nationals; Indian relations; the preliminaries to the War of 1812, and of the war
                    itself; the vexing matter of assembling and outfitting militia companies; the complexities of
                    leasing saline and mineral lands; and the survey and sale of the public lands.
            But this book is not an arid waste of dull papers. It contains the makings for fascinating
                    reconstruction of the lives and passions of pioneer ancestors. For example, from court depositions
                    and land commissioners reports, one can unravel the story of that self-declared Revolutionary hero,
                    John Edgar, who sought to make good his fradulent claims to large areas of the public lands. It is a
                    tangled tale of forgery, perjury, and dirty politics that finally climaxed in murder. Another
                    incident of violence, among many, is that of the murder of the post-rider on the 
                        Vincennes
                     to Kaskaskia route. It was reported that his body "had been staked down under
                    water."
            In a more peaceful mood are such absorbing accounts of life on the frontier as that written by
                    Obadiah Jones, a territorial judge who lived at Cahokia. The long, detailed reports of the
                    government factors at the posts of 
                        Peoria
                    , Prairie du Chien, and 
                        Chicago
                     tell much of the tortuous intrigue of British and Americans struggling for control of
                    the Indians. Still another story is that of the ambitious settlers at Shawneetown on the
                        Ohio River, who sought to  have the
                    government surveyors lay out a town site. In spite of warnings of flood and actual inundation, the
                    people clung tenaciously to their river bottom homes, just as they do today, although the town has
                    been officially moved to higher ground. So, inside its sober government-blue cover, this book
                    contains the raw meat of history.
            
               Mac Murray College Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
            
               Joseph Benson Foraker, An Uncompromising Republican. By Everett Walters. Volume
                    I of the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Governors Series. (
                        Columbus
                    , The 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 1948, pp. xiii, 315. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index, and portrait of Joseph Benson Foraker frontispiece. $3.60.)
            
               
                        Ohio
                     has been writing much about its past, as its recent six-volume co-operative history
                    attests. With this study the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society has inaugurated the ambitions project of a
                    series of lives of the state's governors.
            Joseph Benson Foraker (1846–1917) was raised in the conservative philosophy, became one of
                    its chief spokesmen in 
                        Ohio
                     and national politics, and refused to make an adjustment to the Progressive Era of his
                    closing years. His biography, therefore, has a general significance as a case study of this
                    transitional period.
            Professor Walters' account is clear, free of bias and unwarranted generalizations, and
                    documented in all the right places. A reader wishing to know how Foraker stood on any conceivable
                    issue could find a dependable answer in this book, for the rules of scientific research have
                    obviously been followed with meticulous integrity. The editors have done as careful a job on the
                    mechanical aspects.
            Yet this reviewer closed the book feeling that something was missing—that the parts were
                    more satisfying than the whole. One defect appears to be a lack of emphasis. Fact follows fact on
                    approximately the same level. Furthermore, the man is inadequately related to his times. That the
                    author is aware of the social and economic groups that supported Foraker's conservatism is
                    clear enough from his general statements. But these special interests are seldom related to the  specific event by names and figures. The ever present
                    difficulty of the historian in finding a working alliance between the topical and the chronological
                    has not been satisfactorily resolved. Chapter seven, for example, entitled "Campaign For
                    Senator, 1890–1896" is succeeded by one on almost the same years entitled "
                        Cincinnati
                     Lawyer, 1890–1897." A chapter on "Imperialist Senator,
                    1897–1900" is logically followed by "The Foraker Act, 1900,"
                    but then the reader is directed backward to "Repairing Political Fences,
                    1897–1901."
            Perhaps the fault lies in part in the subject rather than the author. Conservatives, especially ones
                    as unreconstructed as Foraker, do not make as lively topics as do the rebels. That this is at least
                    partly true is readily apparent when one comes to the more dramatic and interesting chapter on
                    Foraker's defense of the Negroes and break with Theodore Roosevelt in the Brownsville
                    Affair. The style is clear but would have profited by variation.
            Let it be emphasized, however, that this biography has more merits than defects. The above criticisms
                    are probings rather than blanket indictments.
            
               University of South Dakota Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               Guns on the Western Waters, The Story of River Gunboats in the Civil War. By H.
                    Allen Gosnell. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                State University Press, 1949, pp. xii, 273.
                    Illustrations. $6.50.)
            If one were to write only a single-page account of the Civil War, he would have some words of praise
                    for the gunboats in the West—unless he were a soldier completely without conscience. The
                    editors of Battles and Leaders of the Civil War did not fail to take good account
                    of the gunboats, the mortars, and the rams; and the four well-known volumes contain adequate
                    coverage in articles from the pens of distinguished participants. The increasing literature of the
                    war has, however, lacked a unified treatment of the whole important theme, one which would not only
                    bring out new facts, but would reappraise the entire inland naval operations from a present-day
                    standpoint. Such a work could evidently be written only by a naval officer versed in naval lore and
                    himself fresh from guns and ships. Lieutenant Commander Gosnell 
                    was well qualified to produce exactly the work that was needed, and he can speak easily of
                    "smooth water," "narrow waters," and "fleet
                    action" in a way that is convincing; still he can refer to gunboats tied up to trees
                    (though he gets that nautical monstrosity into a quotation from another writer).
            Very properly the book begins with a description of the boats and their modes of fighting. Here
                    technical questions enter; marine engines, guns and gunnery, the boats themselves, and the
                    protection—if any—given to them. The Civil War occurred when boilers and
                    engines, as well as ordnance, were in a critical state of development. Gosnell makes this clear,
                    although he gives fundamentals, he remembers that general readers do not want too much on technical
                    matters, and in some instances he tells that information on important matters is
                    wanting—especially in the case of the Confedelate craft.
            The first Union gunboats described are the "Tyler," "
                        Lexington
                    ," and the "Conestoga." The reader familiar with the Battle
                    of Belmont knows that the first two convoyed Grant's three thousand men to that place and
                    brought the expedition back to Cairo; and one who has studied the activities of the Brigadier
                    General C. F. Smith at Paduach during the fall of 1861, remembers that "Conestoga"
                    was the "Lincoln gunboat" that made frequent expeditions up the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Cumberland to see what the Confederates were doing at Forts Henry and Donelson.
                    These three vessels were converted freight-passenger boats. They were strengthened by oak bulwarks
                    but being protected by no armor, their sides would keep out nothing except musket shots and stones
                    thrown in anger. "Conestoga" had four 32-pounders to fight with whilc the other
                    boats had in addition some eight-inch smoothbows ("
                        Lexington
                    ," 4; "Tyler," 6).
            Good descriptions with some plans are given of the nine ironclads, seven of which were
                    "sisters." The arrangement of guns and the manner in which the twin stern wheels
                    were given protection by being recessed are shown. Two and a half inches of iron protected front and
                    sides of the casemate, the plating in front being backed by twenty inches of oak. The armament
                    consisted of 32-pounders, 42-pounders, and 64-pounders (8-inch Dahlgrens); speed in still water was
                    six to seven knots. Gosnell states that James B. Eads "did a splendid job in building these
                    seven craft." Something might  well have been said
                    about the difficulties encountered and pertinent dates given. The boats were built in a hundred
                    days—as Gosnell says—though the contract had called for only sixty. Delivered
                    and accepted on January 15, 1862, they were commissioned the next day. But so bad was the condition
                    of the national treasury that months passed before Eads was paid, and it was only his own private
                    means and assistance of friends that kept the work in progress.
            While the seven Union sisters, with thirteen pieces each, were well gunned, the eight Confederate
                    boats described can be called "gunboats" by little more than courtesy, for Gosnell
                    says that "at a rough guess" each carried only two guns—one forward,
                    one aft. They were intended rather as rams. For this purpose speed was essential, and all the
                    vessels were transformed river boats with powerful engines that could drive them with speeds of
                    nearly twelve knots. In case a boat had one-fourth inch of iron, she was a
                    "tinclad"; otherwise she would be a "cotton-clad" or
                    "hay-plated," depending upon the sort of bales placed upon her decks. The
                    Confederate craft must have been more comfortable than their opposite numbers, and one of them had
                    so much draft that it was driven by a screw propeller. The others were side-wheelers, and so they
                    not only were faster but had greater maneuverability than the Northern iron-clads, although these
                    had two stern wheels, each with its separate engine, in order to increase rapidity of turning.
            In the North there were also men who thought the handsomest way to deal with an enemy craft was to
                    smash boldly into it at a brisk speed and have the affair finished with one big crash instead of
                    tediously and noisily shooting at it. Gosnell gives a good treatment of the Ellet ram fleet. There
                    were a confusing number of Ellets, brothers, sons, nephews; but the man who "sold"
                    his idea to Secretary of War Stanton was Charles Ellet, Jr., an engineer. Though himself a former
                    navy officer, Gosnell does not hesitate to state that it was entirely possible that the ideas Ellet
                    entertained as to the best way to fight in narrow waters would not have been well received by navy
                    men; so it was probably as well that he did his experimenting with a colonel's commission,
                    a copious number of eager and brave relatives, and adventure loving rivermen, supplemented by ten to
                    twenty soldiers for each boat, who could shoot unwary Confederates  with their rifles and furnish a little prelude to the impending smash.
                    The Ellet rams were converted river boats. In order that they could engage with impunity in a life
                    of bumping their enemies, each was given three bulkheads running the entire length of the boat.
                    These were from twelve to sixteen inches thick, which was "very, very thick for such small
                    boats, or for any vessels." A shield of twenty-four inches of oak surrounded the power
                    plants, and the pilothouses were made proof against musketry. At first there were no camons, but
                    some were later added, an acknowledgement that fondness for guns was not just a matter of navy
                    tradition. Four of the boats were side-wheelers, three were driven from the stern. Ellet had hoped
                    for a still-water speed of fifteen knots and probably achieved thirteen.
            Gosnell points out faults of command arrangements but is not severely critical, for he is aware of
                    the difficulties of working out combined operations, especially when there are so many novel
                    situations. Though the Union gunboats were commanded by naval officers, they were under the command
                    of army officers in the field. No serious trouble arose and Gosnell says, "This was because
                    of the happy circumstance that, in the real fighting, Navy officers like Porter and Foote were
                    dealing with Army officers like Grant." Going further he states, "The top Army
                    offices in 
                        Washington
                     appear not to have interfered very much with these gunboats directly." (The
                    War Department certainly had a proprietary right in them, and it was to Quartermaster General Meigs
                    that Foote sent his appeals for money and his reports on construction difficulties: Official Records, ser. 1, vol. 8, pp. 367–369, and elsewhere.) General John
                    Pope also worked very satisfactorily with Foote in the difficult operation at Island No. 10, though
                    he was impatient before two gunboats ran the heavily gunned forts. There was confusion, however,
                    over command of the ram fleet and an act of Congress failed to straighten it out, for it transferred
                    to the Navy the "Western Gunboat Fleet constructed by the War Department." Thus
                    the rams—the real bone of contention—were not explicitly covered. Lincoln
                    straightened the matter out by directing that the rams also be put under the department which
                    initially would probably have refused to have anything to do with them.
            If some objections can be raised to the command of the Federal craft, the story of the Confederate
                    boats is worse,  and Gosnell writes: "The organization
                    of this fleet was of a most amazing character. All of the ships' companies were civilians
                    from beginning to end! President Jefferson Davis appointed two river steamboatmen to start the ball
                    rolling. They appointed others to the commands of the remainder of the boats, making a total of
                    fourteen at first, and the appointments were approved. ‘Commodore’ 
                        Montgomery
                     and his outfit reported theoretically to the general commanding the area."
                    Gosnell quotes 
                        Montgomery
                     as saying that "fourteen 
                        Mississippi
                     captain and pilots would never agree about anything after they had once gotten under
                    way."
            The story of operations on the Western Waters begins with a description of the contest for the
                    "Head of the Passes"—the name given to the important place below 
                        New Orleans
                     where the 
                        Mississippi
                     divides, to empty into the gulf from several mouths, of which at least four were
                    important. Early in October, 1861, four Union vessels under the command of Captain John Pope took
                    station at the point. Presently a surprise attack was launched against them by Confederate Commodore
                    Hollins, whose command included the "Manassas," a craft to achieve considerable
                    renown and which had been given an underwater ram. In a chapter entitled "The Story of
                    Pope's Run," Gosnell gives an informative account of what took place,
                    characterized by fairness to both sides, and in which he reveals his competency as a critic of naval
                    matters. The Federal actions give little to be praised, and Gosnell says, "The Southerners
                    had really done an extremely creditable job when they drove all the blockading ships entirely out of
                    the river, because they did it with a greatly inferior force." 
                        New Orleans
                     armchair strategists criticized Hollins for not doing more than he did; but months were
                    to pass before the Federals secured a lasting hold on the Head of the Passes.
            Action is resumed eleven hundred miles upriver, and in his description of the gunboat operations in
                    connection with Forts Henry and Donelson, Gosnell begins his practice of long quotations from
                    important participants and eyewitnesses, confining himself largely to connecting narrative, critical
                    comments, and analysis. The account of the "Carondelet's" brilliant
                    running of the batteries at Island Number 10 on April 4, 1862, is composed of quotations from
                    reporters for the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Democrat and the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times. The gunboat "Pittsburg" repeated the achievement two
                    nights later,  and Gosnell concludes that "the midnight
                    dash of the Carondelet made possible an absolutely complete victory."
                    This surely is not putting the case too strongly, for on April 7, the important island surrendered
                    to General Pope.
            Foote now had to retire because of his Donelson wound, and before Captain Charles H. Davis fairly had
                    his hands on his new command there occurred "The Affair at Plum Point
                    Bend"—just above Fort Pillow on the east bank of the 
                        Mississippi
                    —in which the Confederates were successful in a
                    "tip-and-run" attack. Gosnell states that the battle "was one of the very
                    few affairs of the entire war that can properly be called a ‘fleet
                    action.’" He adds that "the only fight in which the Confederates
                    attacked was the only fleet fight the Confederates won." The account was soon evened in the
                    Battle of 
                        Memphis
                    , and a surprise dash by some of Ellet's rams finished things temporarily for
                    the Confederates, Gosnell saying, "The effort of the River Defense Fleet was glorious but
                    the failure was fatal and complete."
            The Southerners, however, did not stay off of the waters long, for keeping open a passage for
                    supplies from west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , as well as for munitions imported into un-blockaded 
                        Texas
                     harbors, or ports in 
                        Mexico
                    , was vital to their success. Two chapters of the work under review are devoted to
                    "The 
                        
                            Arkansas
                        
                     Saga." This vessel was built under the greatest difficulties at Greenwood, 
                        Mississippi
                    , on the Pazoo River. "Her career," says Gosnell, "lasted
                    only twenty-three days, but what a career! It included so much action that there probably never was
                    another vessel that averaged anything like so much fighting per day as did the 
                  
                            Arkansas
                        ." There must indeed be great merit to a case that can draw such
                    praise as that from a naval officer in the year 1949.
            The rest of the book deals with matters probably better known to students of the Civil War, the
                    gunboats at Vicks-burg, at Port Hudson, and on the Red River. The chapter "Guns on the
                    Suwanee River" is likely to give one his first knowledge of operations on the stream that
                    empties into the west coast of 
                        Florida
                    , and "The Cracker Line" furnishes some interesting appraisals and
                    narrative about operations on the Tennessee River in the fall of 1863, that
                    helps round out the gunboat story.
            The concluding paragraph of the book begins, "Too great a proportion of the interest and
                    study of the Civil War has  been lavished upon the slogging to
                    and fro on the martial highway between 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    ." For unique thrills the adventures of the little gunboats on western bayous
                    or eastern sloughs cannot, according to Gosnell, be approached by anything in the war. Thrills there
                    certainly were, and plenty of danger too, for when a boiler was exploded by a shell—which
                    sometimes happened—loss of life from scalding and drowning was appalling, while casualtes
                    from gunfire were also high at times. Readers may say either yes or no to Gosnell's general
                    contention, but certain it is that he has helped fill a gap long needing to be filled. And no one
                    will believe Gosnell guilty of overstatement in his parting salute to the river vessels:
                    "West and east, those on both sides behaved splendidly."
            Only a person with good naval knowledge would safely venture to take issue with judgments expressed
                    in the book. But it hurts a mathematician a little to read that "force is proportional to
                    …" when the correct word is "energy," and to see an essential
                    one-half omitted from a formula (p. 21). Those familiar with the generals of the war will note that
                    William T. Sherman is incorrectly given credit for coastal operations in November, 1861. It was in
                    fact General Thomas W. Sherman who carried on the successful operation with Flag Officer S. F.
                    DuPont. The better known of the two generals was at the time in 
                        Louisville
                     in a state of discouragement about Northern prospects. The other Sherman, kept from his
                    just due by a mere permutation in letters (any editor might change T. W. Sherman to W. T. Sherman),
                    had a very creditable career. (He lost a leg in the attack on Port Hudson on May 27, 1863, but
                    returned to duty after some weeks of absence.)
            Twenty-eight illustrations are a goodly number for a book with less than three hundred pages, and
                    they add interest and value to it. But the two maps are poor, due to the fact that lettering was put
                    on by typewriter and the drafting was apparently done with poor ink. The book also lacks an index,
                    which lessens somewhat its value as a work of reference. These are minor flaws in a very readable
                    and informative work, and Guns on the Western Waters is to be recommended for
                    everyone's shelf of books upon the Civil War.
            
               Indiana University K. P. Williams
         
         
         
            
               No Greater Service, The History of the Congregation of the Sisters, Servants of the
                        Immaculate Heart of Mary, 
                     Monroe, Michigan
                  , 1845–1945. By
                    Sister M. Rosalita, I.H.M. Achievement of a Century, The Motherhouse and Missions,
                        Congregation of the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, 
                     Monroe, Michigan
                  , 1845–1945. Edited by Sister M. Rosalita,
                    I.H.M. (
                  Detroit, Michigan
               , Evans-Winter-Hebb Inc., 1948, pp. xx, 863, xiii, 299.
                    Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $15.00.)
            These two books contain the history of the religious sisterhood indicated in the titles from its very
                    humble beginning (it was founded in 1845 by the Reverend Louis Gillet, a Redemptorist) till its
                    centennial celebration (1945), including some of its activities even of 1946. The external work of
                    these Sisters—by reason of the color of their habit often referred to as the
                    "Sisters-in-Blue"—is to educate youth in a Christian manner. In grade
                    schools, in junior and senior high schools, and in Marygrove College, 
                        Detroit
                    , this work is—especially at present—so vast and so well organized
                    and done that it would take a historical essay rather than a book review to do justice to the
                    account given of it in these two books. The author is to be commended for her comprehensive research
                    and exact authentication. Further, she does not hesitate to give an account also of major
                    difficulties, even of crises, that arose in the history of a hundred years, though at times the
                    reader is likely to catch himself reading in between the lines. These qualities of her work make it
                    a trustworthy history of Catholic education in a large part of the state of 
                        Michigan
                     and beyond, even in some foreign mission lands.
            As to composition, the impression forces itself upon the reader that the author could with advantage
                    have omitted many details and digressions that make the first book unduly voluminous. For instance,
                    the first two chapters are an extensive summary of the history of New France, which could with
                    profit have been condensed into a few pages. In chapter three, two and a half pages are devoted to a
                    history of the island of San Domingo merely because it was the birthplace of the mother of the first
                    superioress of the community, even though the former left the island at the age of ten, never to
                    return to it, and arrived in 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1793, and her daughter, the late Mother Theresa Maxis, born in 
                        Baltimore
                    , in 1810, never even saw the island. Father Louis Gillet, foully  accused—not by the community that he had
                    founded—yet fully acquitted, in resentment sought a dispensation from his vows as a
                    Redemptorist and left 
                        Monroe
                    . Chapters nine and ten, with the exception of a few pages, narrate his Odyssey
                    thereafter to many dioceses in the United States, France, perhaps even South America, by way of
                    Africa; for four months on the sea, and, finally, in three Cistercian monasteries in France; his
                    death in the third monastery, in the fifty-sixth year after his connections of not quite two years
                    with the 
                        Monroe
                     foundation had been severed. The history of each of these three monasteries is
                    summarized and the life in a Cistercian monastery is described; thirteen illustrations accompany
                    this Cistercian history and life. Now, whereas all this manifests comprehensive research and filial
                    piety, it detracts from the main narrative, which thereby loses in concentration and continuity.
            The second book is not a continuation of the first; yet it is complementary to it. The Congregation
                    has the laudable regulation that each of its institutions and missions keep a chronicle from the
                    time of the opening of the house. This book records the entries in the chronicle for the opening
                    year at each mission. These entries are followed by a neat chart, Mission Progress, recording the
                    Pastor, Number of Sisters on Mission, Number of Secular Teachers, Enrollment Grade School,
                    Enrollment High School at the opening of the mission and for the year 1945 or, as the case may be,
                    for the year in which the Sisters relinquished the school. This volume presents indeed the Achievement of a Century. Even though the editor has laudably endeavored to
                    preserve the individuality of each chronicle, it would have been well to establish uniformity as to
                    the word "superior" or "superioress"; in some of these
                    chronicles it is used indiscriminately in either form.
            
               Saint Meinrad's Abbey Albert Kleber, O.S.B.
         
         
            
               Medicine Throughout Antiquity. By Benjamin Lee Gordon, M.D. (
                        Philadelphia
                    , F. A. Davis Company, 1949, pp. xvii, 818. References, notes, illustrations, and index.
                    $6.00.)
            This book brings out clearly both the pitfalls into which the untrained writer of history may so
                    easily fall, and the peculiar difficulties inherent in writing the history of science.  It is a rare individual who brings to such a task both adequate
                    training in historical method and a thorough understanding of science. In preparation for writing
                    this book, which covers not only the ancient history of the Near East and the Graeco-Roman World but
                    also the prehistoric period, the Far East, and Pre-Columbian America, Dr. Gordon has done an amazing
                    amount of study. Special chapters are devoted to such outstanding figures as Hippocrates and Galen;
                    and the encyclopaedic coverage of known individuals is impressive.
            On medical theory and practice his observations clearly reflect the experience of an up-to-date
                    practicing physician. To the reader unfamiliar with medical science and medical terminology his
                    remarks are frequently difficult to understand, but they will undoubtedly be of great interest to
                    members of the medical profession. The extensive knowledge which the ancients possessed about
                    anatomy, physiology, and pathology, as well as their medical and surgical skill, will amaze the
                    reader unacquainted with the history of medicine in Antiquity.
            To the historian of Antiquity, however, this book unfortunately presents some glaring defects. Though
                    the author has consulted many modern books in French and German as well as in English, a casual
                    check with the items in the Utrecht Classical Bibliography does not indicate familiarity with the
                    up-to-date literature on the subject. This is in line with his use of the ancient sources, which he
                    appears to have read all too frequently in old and out-of-date translations. There is no evidence
                    whatsoever of familiarity with the original languages and no indication that any effort was made to
                    check on the accuracy of the translations or to assess the historical value of the sources.
            A good example of his uncritical attitude may be found on page 550 where he quotes a translation of a
                    supposed letter from Menocrates to Philip of Macedon taken from a book published in 1831 with no
                    indication of the place where the author found the original text of the letter and no discussion of
                    the problem of its authenticity. An even more exasperating example of carelessness is to be found on
                    pp. 496–497 where the translation of an Athenian inscription in honor of the physician
                    Evenor (apparently Inscriptiones Graecae II, editio minor 374) is given without
                    citing any publication where either the Greek text or the translation was published. This  is particularly disturbing, for the translation would give the
                    reader not accustomed to the language of Athenian official documents the impression that the Demus
                    of the phrase translated "it seemed good to Demus" was an individual rather than
                    the Athenian popular assembly. To some this might seem a trivial point, but it raises serious doubts
                    concerning the reliability of other translations involving important points of medical history. In
                    addition to the Evenor inscription, another example of careless omission will be found in his
                    remarks on the Roman oculists (pp. 624–625) in which he fails to indicate where the
                    inscriptions are published. His method of citing modern authors is often rather baffling, as for
                    example his citation of his own "The Romance of Medicine" in note 19, p. 644,
                    which the reader can identify only by looking back to note 4. He often follows this strange method
                    of giving the title of his books in quotations when he cites them for the second and subsequent
                    times instead of using the conventional abbreviations understood by all historians. Finally the
                    student of ancient history will notice far too many examples of inaccuracy on points of general
                    history and chronology. A few examples will suffice: 
                  (1) Augustus, 30 A.D. (p. 616)
                  (2) Hammurabi, 2285–2242 B.C. (p. 159) as compared with 1950 B.C. (p. 179)
                  (3) Galen said to have been the court physician of Septimius Severus for thirty years (pp.
                            701 f.) though Septimius was emperor for a considerably shorter time.
                  (4) The important Roman office of censor held by Cato is regarded as a
                            surname instead of an office (p. 626) and on the same page he was said to have been
                            "appointed" Consul.
                There are also many careless spellings of ancient names, such as: Ptolemean and Pyda (p.
                    617), Lex Aemela (p. 623), and Addaras (p. 475).
            It is a shame that the value of such a learned work should be viciated by such careless neglect of
                    important historical facts and the canons of historical writing. With a little more attention to
                    historical methodology, perhaps with the help of a professional historian, many of the mistakes
                    could easily have been avoided. Yet, despite these defects, the reviewer is convinced that this will
                    be an immensely interesting and useful work for the medical profession as well as for the general
                    reader. He cannot but feel the greatest ahhation  for the busy
                    practitioner who has found time for such extensive studies.
            
               Indiana University Prescott W. Townsend
         
         
            
               Jews in Relation to the Cultural Milieu of the Germans in America up to the Eighteen
                        Eighties. By Rudolf Glanz. (
                        New York
                    , Yddish Scientific Institute, 
                        New York
                    , 1947, PP. 55.)
            This pamphlet translated from the Yivo Bleter attempts by topical treatment to show
                    the mutual ties and the varying relationships between the German Jews and the Germans in America.
                    The loyalty of the German Jews to German culture is emphasized. The unifying role of the German
                    language is presented as a patent cohesive factor in preserving the close relations between the
                    Jewish emigrants of Germany and the Germans in America. The German press of Pennsylvania in
                    particular served both the German Jews and the Germans and thereby added to an already existing
                    community of interests.
            The author shows the waning of some ties in the late nineteenth century occasioned when second and
                    third generations of the German Jews, naturally enough, use the English language as their medium.
                    Since both groups took firmer root in their new land, the common interests between them were
                    substantially lessened.
            It is unfortunate that the author treated topics of secondary importance as fully as those of greater
                    import. Nevertheless the pamphlet represents solid research and provides an introduction to an
                    interesting subject.
            
               Indiana University Carl Hammond
         
         
            
               Guide to the Records in the National Archives. (Washington, United States
                    Government Printing Office, 1948, pp. xvi, 684. Appendix and index. $2.50, cloth cover.)
            This volume supersedes the Guide to the Material in the National Archives published
                    in 1940. While the earlier Guide listed or described some two hundred thousand
                    cubic feet of records, the 1948 publication describes more than eight hundred  thousand cubic feet of records. Materials for the period before 1925
                    constitute the greater part of the Government's records which are worth preserving. The
                    documents for the period after 1925, however, also require much space. Among the latter group are
                    the records of numerous terminated agencies of the 1930's and of World War 11. Because of
                    the large amount of material, the Guide presents only a general view of the
                    records in the National Archives. Scholars and libraries should find it to be a helpful tool.
            It may also be of interest to scholars to know that the National Archives has facilities for making
                    photostats, microfilms, photographic and ozalid prints, and copies of motion pictures and sound
                    recordings.
         
         
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Board of Investigation and Research
                        Transportation. Compiled by Leo Pascal. Preliminary Inventory No. 19. (Washington, The
                    National Archives, 1949, pp. 12.)
            The Board of Investigation and Research—Transportation was established under the
                    provisions of the Transportation Act on September 18, 1940, and its activities terminated on
                    September 18, 1944.
            The purpose of the Board was to study and report upon the relative economy and fitness of railroad,
                    motor vehicle, and water carriers for various forms of transportation service and methods whereby
                    each type of carrier could be developed to provide an adequate national system of transportation;
                    the extent to which each type of carrier had received or was receiving public aid without giving
                    adequate compensation in return; and the extent to which taxes were imposed upon these carriers by
                    all levels of government. It was also authorized to investigate other matters pertaining to rail,
                    motor, or water carriers which would improve transportation conditions.
            This preliminary inventory report gives a short sketch of the records of the board members, research
                    groups, and administration division.
         
         
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the United States Counsel for the Prosecution
                        of Axis Criminality. Compiled by Fred G. Halley. Preliminary Inventory No. 21. (Washington,
                    The National Archives, 1949, pp. 182.)
            
            The records deposited in the National Archives from the Office of the United States Chief of Counsel
                    for the Prosecution of Axis Criminality consist of five main groups: (1) photostatic copies of
                    documents collected for use as evidence, (2) records of the proceedings, (3) record copy, together
                    with proofs and other working papers, of Nazi Conspiracy and Aggression, a
                    collection of documentary evidence and related materials prepared by the American and British
                    prosecuting staffs and published by the Office of the United States Chief of Counsel (10 vols.,
                    Washington, 1946–1948), (4) microfilm copies of exhibits presented at the trial and other
                    documents, and (5) sound recordings of speeches, a small quantity of motion pictures projected
                    during the trial, photographs submitted in evidence, and photographs taken at the trial.
            The first group, which contains photostatic copies of original documents collected by the British and
                    American staffs, is the largest. Most of the photostatic copies are accompanied by processed copies
                    of the English translations used at the trial.
            In addition to a short sketch of the Records in the National Archives, there is the final Report of
                    the Chief of Counsel for the United States, the pre-trial organization, and a list of microfilm
                    copies of documents.
         
         
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Land-Entry Papers of the General Land Office.
                    Compiled by Harry P. Yoshpe and Philip P. Brower. Preliminary Inventory No. 22. (Washington, The
                    National Archives, 1949, pp. 77.)
            The inventory includes military-bounty-land warrants and related papers, entries arranged by State
                    and name of district land offices, and patented cases subsequent to 1908. Appendix I lists the land
                    laws under which most entries have been made and Appendix II gives an alphabetical listing of land
                    offices. On pages 34 and 35, the Indiana land offices are enumerated. In addition to the cash
                    entries other information is given. In most cases, the description is so sketchy that it may not be
                    of much assistance to scholars.
         
         
            
               Archaeological Notes on 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana. By William R. Adams. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Bureau, 1949, pp. 81. Maps and illustrations.)
            
            A study of the flora, fauna, and archaeological materials further authenicates that 
                        Posey County
                     in the extreme southwestern part of Indiana, serves as a transitional zone between the
                    North and South. There is also evidence of intense occupation by various aboriginal groups over a
                    long period of time.
            During the first half of the nineteenth century Charles A. Lesueur, Gerard Troost, and Thomas Say of 
                        New Harmony
                     displayed an interest in archaeological work in 
                        Posey County
                    . Lesueur's activities in the field attracted the attention of Maximilian of
                    Wied, who spent from October 19, 1832, to March 16, 1833, in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Since Reuben G. Thwaites did not translate Maximilian's travel account in its
                    entirety, a reference to the Prince's two-volume work, Reise in das Innere
                        Nord-America in den Jahren 1832 bis 1834 (Coblentz, 1839) might have been included.
            Only that part of the county was covered in the surveys which would be subject to inundation after
                    the building of a levee. Copies of the report may be obtained from the Indiana Historical Bureau
                    upon request.
         
         
            
               Taproots of 
                            Elkhart
                         History. By Emil V. Anderson. (Elk-hart, Indiana, The Daily Truth, 1949, pp.
                    55. Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $0.85.)
            The material contained in this booklet originally appeared in a series of articles in the 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana, D& Truth during the latter part of 1948 and the
                    first part of 1949. It is an interesting but brief narrative of 
                        Elkhart
                     and other communities in the county.
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            Although the Indiana Historical Society is among the oldest historical organizations in the Middle
                    West, two other state historical societies in this area have a larger membership—
                        Missouri
                     4,950 and 
                        Wisconsin
                     3,472. At the end of July, Indiana had only 1,979. Every library in the state, teachers
                    of Indiana history, as well as all other Hoosiers interested in the history of Indiana should avail
                    themselves of the advantages of membership in their historical society. If every member could
                    interest a friend or two to join the Society by the time of the Territorial sesquicentennial
                    celebration in 1950, it should be possible to have a total membership of four thousand.
            Contact with persons possessing any materials relative to the Cumberland Presbyterian Church in
                    Indiana including diaries, letters, and papers of its ministers and members concerning the history
                    of the church is sought for a study of that church in Indiana.
            William Harris Petersburg, Indiana
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Rogers-Ward-Shipman and Allied Families (cont'd)
            Contributed by Harold I. Meyer, Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser, and Mrs. Voris R. Norton*
            
            
               XI 1 Marie Priscilla Berry, dau. of X, 1; b. 
                     St.
                                Joseph, Mo.
                  ; m. George
                        Godfrey Anderson; r. 
                     Wichita, Kans.
                   (See D.A.C. Lineage Book, VI, 233,
                        #5,665 under Rurgess, Chew, and Dorsey lines.) Children: a, Peggy Lou.
               2 Netonia Edith Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1891; m. William E. Corbin; r. Tulsa, Okla.; children:
                        a, Floyd Lester, b, Carl Lee, c, Emmet, d, Claudia F.
               3 Lawrence A. Wise, s. of X, 5; b. 1893; m. Inez Hughlett; r. Durant, Okla.; children: a,
                        Lawrence A., Jr., b, Jim.
               4 Berdette O. Wise, s. of X, 5; b. 1895; m. Velma Pace; r. Amarillo, 
                            Texas
                        ; children: a, Mildred Beth, b, John Phillip, c, James V., d. William Warren, e,
                        Rowena Inez,
               5 Dewey Edison Wise, s. of X, 5; b. 1898; r. 
                            Los Angeles
                        ; m. Claudia Earley.
               6 Rowena O. Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1900; d. 1931; m. George Wylie Dixon; children: a, Doris
                        Annette, b, Dorothy Alice, c, George Wylie, Jr.
               7 James Earle Wise, s. of X, 5; b. 1903; r. Tulsa, Okla.; m.
                        Billie—————-?; children: a, James Earle,
                        Jr., b, Wanda, c, Wilma, d, Wilda.
               8 Mary Oletha Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1905; r. 
                            Los Angeles
                        ; m. Charles H. Ballard; divorced; children: a, Mary Gwin.
               9 Helen Maud Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1908; r. Shreveport, La., 1947; m. 1st Jesse James Dodson;
                        children: a, Lillian Jean, b, Loretta Jane, c, Jesse James, Jr., m. 2nd
                        —————-Miles.
               10 Howard O. Wise, s. of X, 5; b. 1910; r. 
                            Elwood
                        , Okla.; m. Clara—————-?;
                        children: a, Howard O., Jr., b. Larry.
               11 Eldoris Louise Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1912; r. National City, Calif.; m. Ernest C. Willis;
                        children: a, Ernestine Louise, b, Charlene, c, 
                            Virginia
                         Beth, d, Ray Everett.
               12 Naomi Irene Wise, dau. of X, 5; b. 1914; r. Taft, Calif.; m. Ralph McCoy Dickinson.
               13 Casey Downing, s. of X, 9; b. 7-4-1889; d. 2-5-1899.
               14 Thomas Campbell Downing, s. of X, 10; b. 6-20-1880; d. 10-28-1901.
               15 Mary Downing, dau. of X, 10; b. 5-20-1885; m. 1st 4-2-1904, New 
                            London
                        , Ma., Roi Scarborough Wood, b. 2-27-1882, d. 
                     
                        * Harold I. Meyer is a doctor in 
                           Chicago, Illinois
                        ; Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser (née Harold Evelyn
                                Mae Shipman) is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana; and Mrs. Voris R. Norton (nee Marjorie Nell Downing) is a
                                resident of New 
                           London, Missouri
                        .
                  
                         8-25-1907; children: a, Roi Scarborough, Jr., b, Thomas J.;
                        m. 2nd Gill Clark 6-11-1934.
               16 Marjorie Nell Downing, dau. of X, 10; b. 6-26-1887; r. New 
                     London, Mo.
                  ; m. 5-25-1929, Voris Rariden Norton, b. 7-15-1885, 
                            Bedford
                        , Ind., d. 
                     St. Louis, Mo.
                  , 3-9-1932; no children.
               17 George Roy, s. of X, 11; b. 5-5-1891; d. 11-29-1902.
               18 Ruth Margaret Roy, dau. of X, 11; b. 12-30-1903; m. 6-1-1931, Bailey Wright; r. New 
                            London
                         and Kirksville, Mo.; children: a, Bailey Roy.
               19 Mary Nell Hays, dau. of X, 12; b. 1893; d. 1897.
               20 William Ogle Hays, s. of X, 12; b. 7-28-1895; m. 12-28-1919, Della Edith Myers; children:
                        a, George E., b, Howard Myers.
               21 George Edgar Hays, s. of X, 12; b. 1897; d. 1898.
               22 Agnes Hays, dau. of X, 13; b. 12-7-1898; m. Carl Ferguson; no children.
               23 Margaret Ann Hays, dau. of X, 13; b. 1-5-190'2; m. 8-28-1924, Hannibal, Mo.,
                        Robert Eugene Hibbard; r. Dallas, 
                            Texas
                         (see D.A.C. Lineage Book, VII, 319, under Hays and Rogers lines, #6,826); children:
                        a, Robert Eugene, Jr., b, William Hays.
               24 George Campbell Hays, III, s. of X, 13; b. 7-5-1905.
               25 Charles Thomas Hays, Jr., s. of X, 13; b. 3-24-1913; d. 1931.
               26 LaMoin Wise, dau. of X, 14; m.
                        —————-?; know no more.
               27 Edith Mildred Kelsey, dau. of X, 15; b. 8-13-1900; m. 10-4-1918, Oliver Jackson; children:
                        a, Orrel, b, Bob.
               28 Fern Alice Kelsey, dau. of X, 15; b. 9-20-1902; m. 1-23-1019, A. Fraidenburs; children: a,
                        Alice, b, Arda.
               29 
                            Chester
                         Lee Kelsey, s. of X, 15; b. 5-4-1907; m. 7-8-1929,
                        —————-?; children: a, Cliff, b, Lorene
                        May, c, Carol May.
               30 
                            Marion
                            Denver
                         Kelsey, s. of X, 15; b. 1-4-1911.
               31 Viola May Kelsey, dau. of X, 15; b. 8-13-1913; m. Thomas Golden.
               32 Waneta Maxine Kelsey, dau. of X, 15; b. 9-6-1916; m. 3-21-1936, Frank Plischke.
               33 Eonas James Kelsey, s. of X, 15; b. 8-3-1919; m. 3-16-1938,
                        —————-?; children: a, Eona May, b. Donna
                        Kay.
               34 Charles C. Brooker, s. of X, 17; mayor of 
                     Marion, Kans.
                  , 1939; r. 
                            Wichita
                        .
               35 Gladys Brooker, dau. of X, 17; m. David Book; r. Sedgwick, 
                            Kans.
                        
               
               36 Lewis Clyde Tremaine, s. of X, 31; b. 3-20-1901, Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        ; m. 1st 5-10-1923, Irene Gilbert (divorced); children: a, Lewis Jene, b, Gerald
                        Don; m. 2nd 6-23-1940, Seattle, Wash., Erma Mae Grant, b. 9-2-1907, Spangle, Wash.
               37 Walter Eugene Tremaine, s. of X, 31; b. Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        , 3-10-1903; m. Port Orchard, Wash., 6-12-1932, Borghild (Babs) Bratland, b.
                        9-18-1907, Seattle.
               38 Jennie Ethel Smith, dau. of X, 31; b. Port Orchard, Wash.,  12-5-1916; m. 7-17-1941, Martin J. McDonough, b. 2-21-1913;
                        children: a, Michael John.
               39 Julia Mable Smith, dau. of X, 31; b. 7-21-1918, Port Orchard, Wash.; m. 12-2-1944, Tacoma,
                        Wash., Hubert Mollar.
               40 Harry Claude Tremaine, 8. of X, 33; b. 6-30-1905, 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  ; m. 1934,
                        Sanger, Calif., Ann Horn; children: a, Claudia Ann, b, Mary Elizabeth, c, a son.
               41 Josie Ellen Tremaine, dau. of X, 33; b. 4-7-1907, d. 4-24-1928, 
                     Sacramento, Calif.
                  ; m. 1-29-1925, Oakland, Calif., Lewis Franklin Hall; children: a,
                        Dorothy Jean.
               42 Leitha May Campbell, dau. of X, 34; b. 5-11-1911, Wenatchee, Wash.; m. 1-2-1931, Modesto,
                        Calif., John David Smith.
               43 Myrtle Fay Campbell, dau. of X, 34; b. 8-26-1914, Waterville, Wash.; d. 10-1-1941,
                                
                     Sacramento, Calif.
                  ; buried Lode, Calif.; m. 7-18-1940, Jack Ross.
               44 Lillie Imogene Campbell, dau. of X, 34; b. 10-25-1916, Waterville, Wash.; m. 6-5-1936,
                        Stockton, Calif., Loren John Wood; children: a, Loren Gerald, b, Donald Dwayne.
               45 Raymond Otho Lytle, s. of X, 35; b. 9-20-1908, 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  ; m. 6-4-1938,
                        Cleo Alleyne Walters, Stockton, Calif., b. 12-31-1915.
               46 Elva Ann Lytle, dau. of X, 35; b. 8-26-1910 (twin), Wenatchee, Wash.; m. 2-7-1941,
                        Frederick Wilhelm Eilers, b. 9-25-1900, Brenham, 
                            Texas
                        .
               47 Alice Eugenia Lytle, dau. of X, 35; b. 8-26-1910 (twin), Wenatchee, Wash.; m. 6-4-1938,
                                
                     Danville, Calif.
                  , Patrick Henry McHugh, b. 11-16-1903, Oakdale, Calif.;
                        children: a, Jane Marie, b, Patrick Henry, Jr., c, Kevin Wayne.
               48 Julia Theresa Lytle, dau. of X, 35; b. 8-5-1912, Seattle, Wash.; m. 9-4-1934, Stockton,
                        Calif., Wallace Blatchford Browner, b. 11-11-1911, Morgan Hill, Calif.; children: a, Michael
                        Blatchford, b, Philip Wayne.
               49 Regina Delphine Elva Campbell, dau. of X, 36; b. 9-19-1913, Seattle, Wash.; m. 9-4-1937,
                        Tacoma, Wash., Russel Preston, b. 7-21-1910.
               50 Arthur Preston Glass, s. of X, 48; b. 12-4-1898, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. 
                            New York
                         City; unmarried.
               51 Dr. Robert Lee Glass, M.D., s. of X, 48; b. 1-10-1900, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; m.
                        8-22-1925, 
                            Fairmount
                        , Ind., Isadore Alice Rush, b. 11-20-1900, 
                            Fairmount
                        , dau. of Walter Winslow Rush and Elizabeth Johnson; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; children: a, Nancy Lee, b, Margery Ann, c, Mary Sue.
               52 George Watson Slaughter, s. of X, 49; b. 5-4-1909 (twin), South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r. Port Clinton, 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 6-13-1936, Elmore, 
                            Ohio
                        , Marian James, b. 10-8-1907, Elmore; children: a, Thomas James, b, George Hudson.
               53 Joseph Hudson Slaughter, s. of X, 49; b. 5-4-1909 (twin), South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r. 
                     St. Joseph,
                                Mich.
                  ; m. 8-12-1933, Bentan Harbor,
                        Mich., Viola Capen, b. 7-16-1914, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor; children: a, Joseph Hudson, Jr., b, Frances Marian;  m. 2nd 9-8-1946, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Neva Beebe Barnebee, b. 5-17-1909; no children.
               54 Robert Remus Slaughter, s. of X, 49; b. 5-4-1913, South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  
                        (twin); r. 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind., m. 8-22-1934, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Mich., Grace Blewfield, b. 9-29-1915, Coloma, Mich.; children: a, George
                        Arthur, b, William Robert.
               55 Arthur Romulus Slaughter, s. of X, 49; b. 5-4-1913 (twin), South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r. Clarendon Hills, Ill.; m. 12-28-1933, 
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , Naomi Kimball, b. 4-21-1912, South Haven, Mich.; children: a, Sally
                        Deborah.
               56 Jean Irene Graham, dau. of X, 50; b. 4-7-1907, South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r.
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  : unmarried.
               57 Frances Mae Graham, dau. of X, 50; b. 5-25-1910, South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r.
                                
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  ; m. 11-15-1942, Seattle, Wash., Gilbert Shreve Bibler; no
                        children.
               58 William Henry Graham, 11, s. of X, 50; h. 6-30-1911, South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ; r. New Canaan, Cann.; m. 10-18-1941, New Canaan, Gwendolyn Lloyd, b.
                        Oyster Ray, N. Y.; children: a, William Henry, 111.
               59 Eleanor Anne Graham, dau. of X, 50; b. 12-17-1923, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. 
                            New York
                         City; unmarried.
               60 Judith Evelyn Potts, dau. of X, 60; h. 10-16-1943, Grand Rapids, Mich.
               61 Daniel Lawrence Potts, s. of X, 60; 1). 2-20-1945, Grand Rapids, Mich.
               62 Linda Lou Lovall, dau. of X, 61; b. 8-28-1941, Muiegnn, Mich.
               63 Jo Ann Lovall, dau. of X, 61; b. 1-23-1944, Muskegon, Mich.
               64 Robert Colby, s. of X, 65; d. infancy.
               65 Jacqueline Lee Thompson, dau. of X, 74; 1). 1-7-1933, Cold-water, Mich.
               66 Jo Ann Thompson, dau. of X, 74; b. 9-18-1936, Coldwater, Mich.
               67 Barbara Lou Thompson, dau. of S, 7t; h. 10-26-1941, Cold-water, Mich.
               68 Kenneth Howard Passe, 11, s. of X, 75; 11. 9-2-104C.
               69 Ernest Goad, s. of X, 80; b. 6-16-1902, Roonvillc, Ind.; 1’. Mackey, Ind.; m.
                        6-17-1921, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., Helen Meyer. b. 8-2-1902, Gary, Okla., dau. of Otto B. Meyer and Mary
                        Alberta Davis; children: a, Bettye Junc, b. Emily Alberta.
               70 Lucille Goad, dau. of X, 80; b. 6-16-1006; 1’. T.ouisville, Ky.; m. Ray Daniels.
               71 Henry Goad, s. of X, 80; b. 2-26-1910; r. Roonville. Jnd.; m. Lorraine Younker.
               72 Opal Goad, dau. of X, 80; b. 7-20-1911; r. Roonrille, Ind.; unmarried.
               73 Jack Floyd Critchfield, s. of X, 83; b. 12-10-1910, Boonville, Ind.; r.
                                
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  ; m. 1-3-1931, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Lnd., Emma Re Jones, b. 11-24-1916, 
                     Mt.
                            Vernon, Ill.
                  , dau. of Allen
                        George Jones and Mary Ann Johnson; Children: a, Harry Glen.
               
               74 Rex Caswell, s. of X, 85; b. 10-16-1905; r. Boonville, Ind.; m. 12-10-1908, Coda Cron, b.
                        7-8-1910; children: a, Phyllis, b, Donald, c, Dorothy, d, Fred.
               75 Raymond Oscar Caswell, s. of X, 85; b. 1-29-1907, Boonville, Ind.; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; m. 9-20-1932, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Dorothy Jane Porter, b. 7-22-1911, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., dau. of Albert Elwood Porter and Dora Charlotte Stoner; no children.
               70 Emily Caswell, dau. of X, 85; b. 8-13-1908, Roonville, Ind.; 1’. there; m.
                        2-17-1926, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind., Daniel Morris, b. 2-4-1903, Elberfeld, Ind., s. of George T. Morris and Mary
                        C. Heldt; children: a, Billy Glen, b, Phyllis Ruth, c, Jerry.
               77 Ruth Caswell, dau. of X, 85; b. 10-19-1910, Boonville, Ind.; r. there; m. 3-7-1928, Joseph
                        Edison Batteiger, b. 3-12-1908; children: a, Robert Joseph, c, Bonnie Kay, c, Patricia Ann, d,
                        Patrick Allen.
               78 Bertram Julian Caswell, s. of X, 85; b. 3-2-1914, Boonville, Ind.; r. there; m. 3-31-1934,
                        Henderson, Ky., Ruth Lavada Pfingston, b. 7-26-1914, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., dau. of Francis Pfingston and Ollie Pfingston (this being her maiden name
                        also); children: a, Charles Leland, b, Paul.
               79 Joyce Klostermeier, dau. of X, 90; b. 7-13-1917, Roonville, Ind.; 1. there; unmarried.
               80 Louis Julian Klostermeier, s. of X, 90; b. 12-27-1920, Boonville, Ind.; r. there; m.
                        12-13-1941, Vincenries, Ind., Bettye Jane Hedges, b. 8-16-1921, Boonville, dau. of Leroy Hedges
                        and Marie Ketcham; children: a, Rosanne.
               81 Donald Monroe Meyer, s. of X, 93; b. 8-16-1915, 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  ; r. there; m.
                        4-4-1942, Belton, Mo., Mrs. Rose Eloise Schott, b. 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  , dau. of John
                        A. Schott and Hazel Hannah Slade; children: a, Donald John.
               82 June Eileen Ellis, dau. of X, 94; b. 6-17-1920, 
                     Detroit, Mich.
                  ; r. 
                            Chicago
                        ; m. 10-26-1945, 
                            Chicago
                        , Wayne Arthur Ackerson, b. 2-26-1919, 
                            Chicago
                        , s. of Herbert Ackerson and Evelyn M. Cunning; children: a, Peter.
               83 Paul Rogers Meyer, s. of S, 95; b. 11-7-1938, 
                            Chicago
                        ; r. there.
               84 Robert Beeson Meyer, s. of X, 95; b. 12-3-1939, 
                            Chicago
                        ; r. there.
               85 William Ernest Loomis, s. of X, 96; b. 1-24-1921, Lynnville, Ind.; r. there; m. 1st
                        12-16-1945, Chatsworth, Ga., Caroline Fay Newman, b. 9-11-1923, Robstown, 
                            Texas
                        , dau. of Clyde Dennis Newman and Violet Webb Hardin; no children; m. 2nd 3-30-1946,
                        Mable Irene Stephens of Chattanooga, Tern., of Clarence Rufus Stephens and Sammie Ruth
                        Christian; no children.
               86 Margie Elaine Loomis, dau. of X, 96; b. 11-13-1922, Lynnville, Ind.; m. 1-3-1944,
                        Independence, 
                            Kans.
                        , Leslie Leon Dunning. b. 10-?-1922, Francisco, Ind., s. of David Dunning; children:
                        a, Daniel Duane.
               
               87 Merry Caroline Loomis, dau. of X, 96; b. 12-27-1934, Lynnville, Ind.; r. there.
               88 Don Eldon Loomis, s. of X, 99; b. 8-10-1933, 
                            Chicago
                        .
               89 Harvey Alan Loomis, s. of X, 99; b. 1-27-1938, 
                            Chicago
                        .
               90 John Charles Loomis, s. of X, 102; b. 12-14-1935, 
                     St.
                                Louis, Mo.
                  
               
               91 James Edward Loomis, s. of X, 102; b. 11-12-1940, 
                     St.
                                Louis, Mo.
                  
               
               92 Ronald Lee Edminston, s. of X, 104; b. 5-8-1944, East 
                     St. Louis, Ill.
                  
               
               93 Carl Plassmeier, s. of X, 109; b. 12-7-1921, Lynnville, Ind.; r. there; unmarried.
               94 Helen Louise Plassmeier, dau. of X, 109; b. 1-1-1928, Lynnville, Ind.; r. 
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind.; m. 1-13-1945, Boonville, Ind., Carroll Franklin Ferguson, b. 7-14-1924,
                        Claybank, Ind., s. of Guy B. Ferguson and Nellie Yager; children: a, 
                            Wayne
                         Carroll.
               95 Harold Ernest Plassmeier, s. of X, 109; b. 4-6-1932, Lynnville, Ind.
               96 Betty Louise Plassmeier, dau. of X, 109; b. 11-24-1934, Lynnville, Ind.
               97 John Lewis Chapman, s. of X, 110; b. 12-24-1932, Boonville, Ind.
               98 Jacqueline Baskett, dau. of X, 112; b. 8-9-1924, 
                            Chicago
                        ; r. 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.; m. 5-8-1946, Berwyn, Ill., Clifford A. Laury, b. 6-8-1924, 
                            Chicago
                        ; children: a, Yvonne.
               99 Robert Wayne Stuckey, s. of X, 113; b. 7-15-1938, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               100 Thomas Pharal Stuckey, s. of X, 113; b. 7-1-1940, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               101 Geraldine Virginia Thompson, dau. of X, 114; b. 4-15-1921, Lufkin, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. 
                     Laredo, Texas
                  ; m. 2-23-1944, 
                            Laredo
                        , John Thornton Parker, b. 11-25-1914, 
                            Laredo
                        ; children: a, Alice Kaye.
               102 Martha Louise Thompson, dau. of X, 114; b. 11-28-1923, Shreveport, La.; r. Baytown, 
                            Texas
                        ; unmarried.
               103 Una Wilborne Thompson, dau. of X, 114; b. 8-29-1925, Smiley, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Corpus Christi, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 9-2-1944, Corpus Christi, Ross Bell Langham, b. 7-28-1923, Lockhart, 
                            Texas
                        ; children: a, Paula Deane.
               104 Billy Maye Thompson, dau. of X, 115; b. 6-29-1927, Odom, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 9-24-1945, 
                     Houston, Texas
                  , James Olen Waters; children: a, James
                        Olen, Jr.
               105 Thomas Tyree Thompson, II, s. of X, 115; b. 2-5-1929, 
                     Brownsville, Texas
                  .
               106 Edwin Michael Thompson, s. of X, 115; b. 8-15-1933, Harlington, 
                            Texas
                        .
               107 John Ralph Thompson, s. of X, 115; b. 8-29-1935, Harlington, 
                            Texas
                        .
               108 Lyle Roy Massey, s. of X, 118; b. 1-1-1924, Mt. Camel, Ill.; d. 1-4-1924, Mt. Camel.
               
               109 Raymond L. Massey, s. of X, 118; b. 1-5-1925, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.; r. there; was in World War II.
               110 Don Elias Massey, s. of X, 118; b. 7-13-1927, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.
               111 Sybil Alnieric Rayson, dau. of X, 120; b. 1-19-1918, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Gonzales; m. 4-13-1939, San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        , Hayden Lee Boland, b. 1-18-1917, 
                     Laredo, Texas
                  , s. of
                        William Lawrence Boland and Vera Frances Swift; children: a, Hayden Edward.
               112 Helen Edith Rayson, dau. of X, 120; b. 1-20-1921, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Gonzales; m. 2-22-1942, Gonzales, Lawrence Anton Eiserloh and Lynden Kearns;
                        children: a, Philip Lawrence.
               113 Jack Henry Rayson, Jr., s. of X, 120; b. 7-22-1931, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; unmarried.
               114 Marylin Ruth Reid, dau. of X, 121; b. 9-21-1924, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. there; m. 11-10-1945, -Alfred S. Farmer, Gonzales, b. 5-8-1020, Gonzales, s. of
                        Alfred Herbert Farmer and Sue Mae Schutz; children.
               115 Bryce Zint Reid, s. of X, 121; b. 3-26-1928, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               116 Savilla Frances Tyree, dau. of X, 122; b. 6-27-1918, Moore, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Three Rivers, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. Three Rivers, 7-12-1935, Eugene Hamilton Wal, b. 1-14-1917, Grand Prairie;
                        children: a, David A.
               117 Melva Lavelle Beeson, dau. of X, 123; b. 12-24-1926, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. there; m. 1st 11-24-1942, Robert Stanley Rentz, Gonzales, b. 1-14-1921, d.
                        8-26-1941, killed in action World War II, s. of Robert Rentz and Ida Weather; children: a,
                        Robert Ray, b, John Dean; m. 2nd 1945, Melvin Sievers, b. 4-15-1911, s. of William Sievers and
                        Alma Zarth; no children.
               118 Porter Ray Beeson, s. of X, 123; b. 7-20-1928, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               119 Betty Jo Beeson, dau. of X, 123; b. 3-30-1930, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               120 Willie Ann Beeson, dau. of X, 123; b. 11-21-1932, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               121 Charles Frederick Beeson, s. of X, 123; b. 12-8-1938, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               122 Sandra Kay Beeson, dau. of X, 123; b. 8-4-1946, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               123 Frances Smith, dau. of X, 125; b. 9-12-1927, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. San Angelo, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 2-14-1946, San Angelo, Henry Earl Glaser, b. 9-24-1923, Waco, 
                            Texas
                        , s. of Henry Earl Glaser and Ruth Cravens; no children.
               124 James Edward Smith, s. of X, 125; b. 1-31-1929, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               125 Dorothy Louise Fougerat, dau. of X, 126; b. 1-30-1928, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               126 Gerald Julian Fougerat, s. of X, 126; b. 9-17-1929, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               127 Mary Theresa Fougerat, dau. of X, 126; b. 1-30-1932, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               
               128 Oliver Allen Tyson, s. of X, 128; b. 9-3-1943, Lake Charles, La.
               129 Curtis Alton Tyson, 8. of X, 128; b. 2-25-1946, Lake Charles, La.
               130 Richard LaMonte Beeson, s. of X, 130; b. 9-27-1936, Lubbock, 
                            Texas
                        .
               131 Cora Margaret Keeling, dau. of X, 132; b. 3-5-1918, Owensboro, Ky.
               132 Iris Gwenette Keeling, dau. of X, 132; b. 5-6-1919, Owensboro, Ky.
               133 Wanda Marian Keeling, dau. of X, 132; b. 8-3-1920, Owensboro, Ky.; m. J. W. Layman, b.
                        Owensboro; children: a, James Medley, b, Gable Wilson, c, 
                            Marion
                         Thomas.
               134 Edgar Wayne Keeling, s. of X, 132; b. 3-11-1928, Owensboro, Ky.
               135 Daniel Clifton Keeling, s. of X, 132; b. 1-21-1931, Owensboro, Ky.
               136 James Franklin Keeling, s. of X, 132; b. 2-26-1933, Owensboro, Ky.
               137 Beatrice (Bebe) Keeling, dau. of X, 132; b. 2-23-1936, Owensboro, Ky.
               138 Mayme Margaret Armstrong, dau. of X, 133; b. 12-6-1917. Clifty, Ky.; r. Owensboro, Ky.; m.
                        there, James Temple Hines, b. Owensboro; children: a, James Temple, Jr., b, Barbara Jean, c,
                        Daryl, d, Caryl, e, Kenneth.
               139 William Henry Armstrong, 8. of X, 133; b. 11-28-1920, Owensboro, Ky.; r. there; m.
                        9-30-1943, Thelma Irene Barnett; children: a, Tana Elain.
               140 James Edward Armstrong, 8. of X, 133; b. 1-25-1927, Owensboro, Ky.
               141 Dorothy Ann Armstrong, dau. of X, 133; b. 6-3-1931, Owensboro, Ky.
               142 Jeanette Jenkins, dau. of X, 135; b. 7-1-1931, Owensboro, KY.
               143 Raymond Jenkins, s. of X, 135; b. 10-24-1933, Owensboro, KY.
               144 Eva Jean Jenkins, dau. of X, 135; b. 7-1-1941, Owensboro, KY.
               145 Clifford Jenkins, s. of X, 136; b. 9-22-1934, Owensboro, Ky.
               146 Jerry J. Jenkins, s. of X, 136; b. 8-4-1940, Owensboro, Ky.
               147 Ida Aloha Westerfield, dau. of X, 137; b. 4-1-1935, Owensboro, Ky.
               148 John Robert Westerfield, s. of X, 137; b. 6-18-1941, Owenaboro, Ky.
               149 Marvin Forrest Sutton, s. of X, 138; b. 3-26-1940, Owensboro, Ky.
               150 Robert Joe Wooldridge, s. of X, 140; b. 6-10-1929, Evanuville, Ind.
               151 Mary Beth Mothelwell, dau. of X, 141; b. 8-3-1942, 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  
               
               
               152 Robert Lee Schuman, s. of X, 142; b. 8-7-1930, 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  
               
               153 Betty Claire Schumann, s. of X, 142; b. 8-29-1934, 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  
               
               154 Samuel Paul Schumann, s. of X, 142; b. 10-9-1940, 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  
               
               155 Sharon Tustison, dau. of X, 144; b. 5-3-1938, Salt Lake City, 
                            Utah
                        .
               156 Susan Tustison, dau. of X, 144; b. 5-19-1942, Salt Lake City, 
                            Utah
                        .
               157 Constance Jean Davidson, dau. of X, 145; know no more. (The rest of the names of those
                        belonging to the 11th generation are left out for lack of any vital data concerning them.)
               XII 1 Jim Wise, s. of XI, 3; d. age 7.
               2 Mary Gwin Ballard, dau. of XI, 8; d. age 2 weeks.
               3 Roi Scarborough Wood, Jr., s. of XI, 15; b. 12-18-1904, New 
                     London, Mo.
                  ; r. Joplin, Mo.; m. 10-30-1926, 
                     St.
                                Louis, Mo.
                  , Adalee
                        Edwards, b. 7-27-1905, Canton, Mo., dau. of Rev. B. S. M. Edwards and Iola Quear Clark;
                        children: a, 
                            Virginia
                         Jean.
               4 Thomas J. Wood, s. of XI, 15; b. 6-28-1906; d. 7-1-1920.
               5 Bailey Roy Wright, s. of XI, 18; b. 3-27-1945.
               6 George E. Hays, s. of XI, 20; b. 4-25-1921, Alton, Ill.; r. Rartlesville, Okla.; m. there
                        5-6-1946, Jean E. Browne, dau. of N. E. Browne of 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; children: a, George Campbell.
               7 Howard Myers Hays, s. of XI, 20; b. 1-28-1923, Alton, Ill.; r. 
                     Urbana, Ill.
                  ; m. 7-9-1946, Dorothy Winifred Gale.
               8 Robert Eugene Hibbard, Jr., s. of XI, 23; b. 2-8-1927.
               9 William Hays Hibbard, 8. of XI, 23; b. 11-16-1930.
               10 Orrel Jackson, s. of XI, 27; b. 1922.
               11 Bob Jackson, s. of XI, 27; b. 1926.
               12 Alice Fraidenburs, dau. of XI, 28; b. 1920.
               13 Arda Fraidenburs, dau. of XI, 28; b. 1923.
               14 Cliff Kelsey, s. of XI, 29; b. 6-4-1933.
               15 Lorene May Kelsey, dau. of XI, 29; b. 5-3-1936.
               16 Carol May Kelsey, dau. of XI, 29; b. 5-28-1939.
               17 Eona May Kelsey, dau. of XI, 33; b. 10-10-1940.
               18 Donna Kay Kelsey, dau. of XI, 33; b. 7-16-1944.
               19 Lewis Jene Tremaine, s. of XI, 36; b. 2-16-1924, 
                     Los
                                Angeles, Calif.
                  
               
               20 Gerald Don Tremaine, s. of XI, 36; b. 6-13-1930, 
                     Los
                                Angeles, Calif.
                  
               
               21 Michael John McDonough, 8. of XI, 38; b. 5-13-1944, Bremerton, Wash.
               22 Claudia Ann Tremaine, dau. of XI, 40; b. 8-26-1936.
               23 Mary Elizabeth Tremaine, dau. of XI, 40; b. 6-6-1939.
               24 Dorothy Jean Hall, dau. of XI, 41; b. 4-22-1927; m. 2-26-1945, Elmer Raymond Brown, Reno,
                        Nev.
               
               25 Loren Gerald Wood, s. of XI, 44; b. 10-28-1937, French Camp, Calif.
               26 Donald Dwayne Wood, s. of XI, 44; b. 12-26-1939, French Camp, Calif.
               27 Jane Marie McHugh, dau. of XI, 47; b. 5-16-1939, Stockton, Calif.
               28 Patrick Henry McHugh, Jr., s. of XI, 47; b. 10-18-1940, Stockton, Calif.
               29 Kevin Wayne McHugh, s. of XI, 47; b. 9-4-1942, Stockton, Calif.
               30 Michael Blatchford Browner, s. of XI, 48; b. 9-29-1936, Morgan Hill, Calif.
               31 Philip Wayne Browner, s. of XI, 48; b. 5-27-1939, Morgan Hill, Calif.
               32 Nancy Lee Glass, dau. of XI, 51; b. 4-13-1927, 
                     Ann
                            Arbor, Mich.
                  ; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               33 Margery Ann Glass, dau. of XI, 51; b. 4-26-1930, 
                     Ann
                                Arbor, Mich.
                  ; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               34 Mary Sue Glass, dau. of XI, 51; b. 1-11-1937, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; r. there.
               35 Thomas James Slaughter, s. of XI, 52; b. 7-13-1937, 
                     Fremont, Ohio
                  .
               36 George Hudson Slaughter, s. of XI, 52; b. 11-13-1944, Port Clinton, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               37 Joseph Hudson Slaughter, s. of XI, 53; b. 2-20-1936, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Mich.
               38 Frances Marian Slaughter, dau. of XI, 53; b. 10-21-1938, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Mich.
               39 George Arthur Slaughter, s. of XI, 54; b. 7-7-1941, 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.
               40 William Robert Slaughter, 8. of XI, 54; b. 12-20-1943, 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.
               41 Sally Deborah Slaughter, dau. of XI, 55; b. 12-3-1938, 
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  .
               42 William Henry Graham, 111, s. of XI, 58; b. 7-24-1944.
               43 Bettye June Goad, dau. of XI, 69; b. 11-4-1922; r. Boonville, Ind.; m. 10-4-1941, Buckskin,
                        Ind., Edward Wildt, b. 7-4-1920, Ft. Franch, Ind., s. of John Wildt and Carrie Strohm; children:
                        a, Judith Elaine, b, Jeanette Anne.
               44 Emily Alberta Goad, dau. of XI, 69; b. 2-7-1925, Boonville, Ind.; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; m. 6-9-1942, Buckskin, Ind., Eugene Tally, b. 5-6-1922, Linton, Ind., s. of
                        Charles Orlie Tally and Winnie Mae Wright; children: a, Charlotte Diana, b, David Allen.
               45 Harry Glen Critchfield, s. cf XI, 73; b. 10-16-1932, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.
               46 Phyllis Caswell, dau. of XI, 74; b. 10-14-1929, Boonville, Ind.
               47 Donald Caswell, s. of XI, 74; b. 8-16-1931.
               48 Dorothy Caswell, dau. of XI, 74; b. 8-22-1933.
               49 Fred Caswell, s. of XI, 74; b. 8-5-1936.
               50 Billy Glen Morris, s. of XI, 76; b. 9-18-1927, Boonville, Ind.
               
               51 Phyllis Ruth Morris, dau. of XI, 76; b. 3-6-1929, Boonville, Ind.
               52 Jerry Morris, s. of XI, 76; b. 2-16-1931, Boonville, Ind.
               53 Robert Joseph Batteiger, s. of XI, 77; b. 12-25-1928.
               54 Bonnie Kay Batteiger, dau. of XI, 77; b. 6-21-1942.
               55 Patricia Ann Batteiger, dau. of XI, 77; b. 7-23-1944 (twin).
               56 Patrick Allen Batteiger, s. of XI, 77; b. 7-23-1944 (twin).
               57 Charles Leland Caswell, s. of XI, 78; b. 7-4-1935, Boonville, Ind.
               58 Paul Caswell, s. of XI, 78; b. 10-4-1937, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               59 Rosanne Klostermeier, dau. of XI, 80; b. 1-18-1944, 
                     Laredo, Texas
                  .
               60 Donald John Meyer, s. of XI, 81; b. 1-16-1943, 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  
               
               61 Peter Ackerson, s. of XI, 82; b. 8-12-1946, 
                     Chicago, Ill.
                  
               
               62 Daniel Duane Dunning, s. of XI, 86; b. 1-1-1947, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               63 
                            Wayne
                         Carroll Ferguson, s. of XI, 94; b. 7-31-1946, Oakland, City, Ind.
               64 Yvonne Laury, dau. of XI, 98; b. 12-4-1946, 
                     Chicago, Ill.
                  
               
               65 Alice Kaye Parker, dau. of XI, 101, b. 10-11-1944, 
                     Laredo, Texas
                  .
               66 Paula Deane Langham, dau. of XI, 103; b. 12-1-1946, Corpus Christi, 
                            Texas
                        .
               67 James Olen Waters, Jr., s. of XI, 104; b. 8-13-1946, Harling-ton, 
                            Texas
                        .
               68 Hayden Edward Boland, s. of XI, 111; b. 12-2-1943, San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        .
               69 Philip Lawrence Eiserloh, s. of XI, 112; b. 12-21-1945, San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        .
               70 David A. Wall, s. of XI, 116; b. 2-18-1942, San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        .
               71 Robert Ray Rentz, s. of XI, 117; b. 6-26-1943, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               72 John Dean Rentz, s. of XI, 117; b. 3-26-1944, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        .
               73 James Medley Layman, s. of XI, 133; b. 10-10-1938, Owens-boro, Ky.
               74 Gable Wilson Layman, s. of XI, 133; b. 8-14-1940, Owens-boro, Ky.
               75 
                            Marion
                         Thomas Layman, s. of XI, 133; b. 5-12-1943, Owens-boro, Ky.
               76 James Temple Hines, Jr., s. of XI, 138; b. Owensboro, Ky.
               77 Barbara Jean Hines, dau. of XI, 138; b. Owensboro, Ky.
               78 Daryl Hines, dau. of XI, 138; b. Owensboro, Ky.
               79 Caryl Hines, dau. of XI, 138; b. Owensboro, Ky.
               80 Kenneth Hines, s. of XI, 138; b. Owensboro, Ky.
               81 Tana Elain Armstrong, dau. of XI, 139; b. 6-23-1945. (The rest of the names of those
                        belonging to the 12th generation are left out for lack of any vital data concerning them.)
               
               XIII 1 
                            Virginia
                         Jean Wood, dau. of XII, 3; b. 6-5-1929, Wright City, Mo.
               2 George Campbell Hays, 8. of XII, 6; b. 10-21-1947, Bartlesville, Okla.
               3 Judith Elaine W'ildt, dau. of XII, 43; b. 1-3-1943, 
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind.
               4 Jeanette Ann Wildt, dau. of XII, 43; b. 11-14-1946, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               5 Charlotte Diana Tally, dau. of XII, 44; b. 1-29-1945, 
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind.; r. 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               6 David -411en Tally, s. of KII, 44; b. 10-14-1946, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.; r. there.
               (The rest of the names of those belonging to the 13th generation are left out for lack of any
                        vital data concerning them.)
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
